id: quant-ph/0001001
title: A four-party unlockable bound-entangled state
authors: John A. Smolin
comments: 5 pages revtex including 1 epsf postscript figure. Minor errors corrected, and notational changes. The figure has notation revised as well
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001001
abstract: I present a four-party unlockable bound-entangled state, that is, a four-party quantum state which cannot be written in a separable form and from which no pure entanglement can be distilled by local quantum operations and classical communication among the parties, and yet when any two of the parties come together in the same laboratory they can perform a measurement which enables the other two parties to create a pure maximally entangled state between them without coming together. This unlocking ability can be viewed in two ways, as either a determination of which Bell state is shared in the mixture, or as a kind of quantum teleportation with cancellation of Pauli operators.

id: quant-ph/0001002
title: Coherent states, displaced number states and Laguerre polynomial states for su(1,1) Lie algebra
authors: Xiao-Guang Wang
comments: 16 pages, no figures, accepted by Int. J. Mod. Phy. B
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B. 14(10)(2000)1093-1104.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001002
abstract: The ladder operator formalism of a general quantum state for su(1,1) Lie algebra is obtained. The state bears the generally deformed oscillator algebraic structure. It is found that the Perelomov's coherent state is a su(1,1) nonlinear coherent state. The expansion and the exponential form of the nonlinear coherent state are given. We obtain the matrix elements of the su(1,1) displacement operator in terms of the hypergeometric functions and the expansions of the displaced number states and Laguerre polynomial states are followed. Finally some interesting su(1,1) optical systems are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0001003
title: Photon-added one-photon and two-photon nonlinear coherent states
authors: Xiao-Guang Wang
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics, 79(5), 833-840 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001003
abstract: From the photon-added one-photon nonlinear coherent states $a^{\dagger m}|\alpha,f>$, we introduce a new type of nonlinear coherent states with negative values of $m.$ The nonlinear coherent states corresponding to the positive and negative values of $m$ are shown to be the result of nonunitarily deforming the number states $|m>$ and $|0>$, respectively. As an example, we study the sub-Poissonian statistics and squeezing effects of the photon-added geometric states with negative values of $m$ in detail. Finally we investigate the photon-added two-photon nonlinear coherent states and find that they are still the two-photon nonlinear coherent states with certain nonlinear functions.

id: quant-ph/0001004
title: The Role of the Environment in Molecular Systems
authors: Dmitri S. Kilin
comments: Ph. D. thesis, in English, abstract and conclusions in German, 101 pages, 28 figures, 4 tables, 206 references. The hard copy available upon request. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001004
abstract: The work is devoted to the investigation of the influence of a heat bath on the physical processes in a quantum system. We use the density matrix theory as one of the most powerfool tool for investigation of quantum relaxation. In the beginning of the work (chapter 2) we mention and recall the most important steps of derivation of the equation of motion for the reduced density matrix (master equation) for an arbitrary quantum system in diabatic representation interacting with the environment modeled by a set of independent harmonic oscillators. Chapter 3 deals with the question of the border between classical and quantum effects and reports on a study of the environmental influence on the time evolution of a coherent state or the superposition of two coherent states of a harmonic oscillator as a simple system displaying the peculiarities of the transition from quantum to classical regime. Chapters 4 and 5 concern the electron transfer (ET) problem, namely the mathematical description of the ET in molecular zinc-porphyrin-quinone complexes modeling artificial photosynthesis (chapter 4) and photoinduced processes in the porphyrin triad (chapter 5). Each chapter starts with an introduction and ends with a brief summary. The main achievements of the present work are summarized in the Conclusions.

id: quant-ph/0001005
title: The class of languages recognizable by 1-way quantum finite automata is not closed under union
authors: Maris Valdats
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001005
abstract: In this paper we develop little further the theory of quantum finite automata (QFA). There are already few properties of QFA known, that deterministic and probabilistic finite automata do not have e.g. they cannot recognize all regular languages. In this paper we show, that class of languages recognizable by QFA is not closed under union, even not under any Boolean operation, where both arguments are significant.

id: quant-ph/0001006
title: Comment on "Quantum Phase Shift Caused by Spatial Confinement", by B.E. Allman et al
authors: Murray Peshkin
comments: Latex, 3 pages. To be published in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found. of Phys. Lett., 13 (2000) 97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001006
abstract: The analysis of phase shifts in executed and proposed interferometry experiments on photons and neutrons neglected forces exerted at the boundaries of spatial constrictions. When those forces are included it is seen that the observed phenomena are not in fact geometric in nature. A new proposal to be published by Allman et al. avoids that pitfall.

id: quant-ph/0001007
title: Universal quantum limits on single channel information, entropy and heat flow
authors: Miles P. Blencowe, Vincenzo Vitelli
comments: 4 figures added; minor changes to text. To appear in Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 62, Nov. 2000
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 052104 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001007
abstract: We show that the recently discovered universal upper bound on the thermal conductance of a single channel comprising particles obeying arbitrary fractional statistics is in fact a consequence of a more general universal upper bound, involving the averaged entropy and energy currents of a single channel connecting heat reservoirs with arbitrary temperatures and chemical potentials. The latter upper bound in turn leads, via Holevo's theorem, to a universal (i.e., statistics independent) upper bound on the optimum capacity for classical information transmission down a single, wideband quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0001008
title: Optical Realization of Quantum Gambling Machine
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Wan-Li Li, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 Pages, 3 Figures, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001008
abstract: Quantum gambling --- a secure remote two-party protocol which has no classical counterpart --- is demonstrated through optical approach. A photon is prepared by Alice in a superposition state of two potential paths. Then one path leads to Bob and is split into two parts. The security is confirmed by quantum interference between Alice's path and one part of Bob's path. It is shown that a practical quantum gambling machine can be feasible by this way.

id: quant-ph/0001009
title: New strategy for suppressing decoherence in quantum computation
authors: Miroljub Dugi?
comments: brief report, 6-PlainTeX pages, no figures; this http URL&abstract=256
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing 1, 102 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001009
abstract: Controlable strong interaction of the qubit's bath with an external system (i.e. with the bath's environment) allows for choosing the conditions under which the decoherence of the qubit's states can be substantially decreased (in a certain limit: completely avoided). By "substantially decreased" we mean that the correlations which involve the bath's states prove negligible, while the correlations between the qubit's and the environment's states can be made ineffective during a comparatively long time interval. So, effectively, one may choose the conditions under which, for sufficiently long time interval, the initial state of "qubit + bath" remains unchanged, thus removing any kind of the errors. The method has been successfully employed in the (simplified) model of the solid-state-nuclear quantum computer (proposed by Kane).

id: quant-ph/0001010
title: Do the precise measurements of the Casimir force agree with the expectations?
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, M. V. Lokhanin
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, 2 Postscript figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A15 (2000) 1013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001010
abstract: An upper limit on the Casimir force is found using the dielectric functions of perfect crystalline materials which depend only on well defined material constants. The force measured with the atomic force microscope is larger than this limit at small separations between bodies and the discrepancy is significant. The simplest modification of the experiment is proposed allowing to make its results more reliable and answer the question if the discrepancy has any relation with the existence of a new force.

id: quant-ph/0001011
title: Bohmian mechanics contradicts quantum mechanics
authors: Arnold Neumaier
comments: 13 pages. The revised version strengthens the case made against the claim that Bohmian mechanics reproduces all predictions of quantum mechanics exactly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001011
abstract: It is shown that, for a harmonic oscillator in the ground state, Bohmian mechanics and quantum mechanics predict values of opposite sign for certain time correlations. The discrepancy can be explained by the fact that Bohmian mechanics has no natural way to accomodate the Heisenberg picture, since the local expectation values that define the beables of the theory depend on the Heisenberg time being used to define the operators. Relations to measurement are discussed, too, and shown to leave no loophole for claiming that Bohmian mechanics reproduces all predictions of quantum mechanics exactly.

id: quant-ph/0001012
title: Evidence for a dynamic origin of charge
authors: W. A. Hofer
comments: 8 pages (RevTeX, twocolumn). Included the scale between atomic variables and macroscopic measures in section VI. Corrected a numerical ambiguity in section VII. The energy flow of solar gravity waves is now given unambiguously in SI units. Minor improvements in the wording
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001012
abstract: The fundamental equations of particle motion lead to a modified Poisson equation including dynamic charge. This charge derives from density oscillations of a particle; it is not discrete, but continuous. Within the dynamic model of hydrogen it accounts for all features of electron proton interactions, its origin are density oscillations of the proton. We propose a new system of electromagnetic units, based on meter, kilogram, and second, bearing on these findings. The system has none of the disadvantages of traditional three-unit systems. On the basis of our theoretical model we can genuinely derive the scaling factor between electromagnetic and mechanic variables, which is equal, within a few percent, to Planck's constant h. The implications of the results in view of unifying gravity and quantum theory are discussed. It seems that the hypothetical solar gravity waves, in the low frequency range of the electromagnetic spectrum, are open to experimental detection.

id: quant-ph/0001013
title: Effects of Dicke superradiance in context of the one-atom maser
authors: N. Nayak, A. S. Majumdar, V. Bartzis
comments: 15 pages, Latex, 8 .ps figures
journal: J. Nonlinear Optics 24 (2000) 319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001013
abstract: We consider a micromaser model to study the influence of Dicke superradiance in the context of the one-atom maser. The model involves a microwave cavity into which two-level Rydberg atoms are pumped in pairs. We consider a random pump mechanism which allows the presence of at most one pair of atoms in the cavity at any time. We analyze the differences between the present system, called the Dicke micromaser, and an equivalently pumped conventional one-atom micromaser. These differences are attributed to the Dicke cooperativity in the two-atom system. We also show that the two-atom Dicke micromaser is equivalent to a one-atom cascade two-photon micromaser. With the introduction of a one-photon detuning, the present theory further describes a true two-photon micromaser. We discuss in detail the role of one-photon detuning in the mechanism of a one-atom two-photon micromaser. This leads us to point out that the two-atom cavity dynamics can be verified by a proper scaling of the results from an equivalent one-atom two-photon micromaser.

id: quant-ph/0001014
title: Separability and Fourier representations of density matrices
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A62, 032313 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001014
abstract: Using the finite Fourier transform, we introduce a generalization of Pauli-spin matrices for $d$-dimensional spaces, and the resulting set of unitary matrices $S(d) $ is a basis for $d\times d$ matrices. If $N=d_{1}\times d_{2}\times...\times d_{b}$ and $H^{[ N]}=\bigotimes H^{% [ d_{k}]}$, we give a sufficient condition for separability of a density matrix $\rho $ relative to the $H^{[ d_{k}]}$ in terms of the $L_{1}$ norm of the spin coefficients of $\rho >.$ Since the spin representation depends on the form of the tensor product, the theory applies to both full and partial separability on a given space $H^{[ N]}$% . It follows from this result that for a prescribed form of separability, there is always a neighborhood of the normalized identity in which every density matrix is separable. We also show that for every prime $p$ and $n>1$ the generalized Werner density matrix $W^{[ p^{n}]}(s) $ is fully separable if and only if $s\leq (1+p^{n-1}) ^{-1}$.

id: quant-ph/0001015
title: Structure behind Mechanics II: Deduction
authors: Toshihiko Ono
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001015
abstract: This paper proves that protomechanics, previously introduced in quant-ph/9909025, deduces both quantum mechanics and classical mechanics. It does not only solve the problem of the arbitrariness on the operator ordering for the quantization procedure, but also that of the analyticity at the exact classical-limit of $\hbar =0 $. In addition, proto-mechanics proves valid also for the description of a half-spin.

id: quant-ph/0001016
title: Antiparticle in Light of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox and Klein Paradox
authors: Guang-jiong Ni, Hong Guan, Weimin Zhou, Jun Yan
comments: 4 pages, 0 figures. Accepted by Chinese Phys. Lett
journal: Chin.Phys.Lett. 17 (2000) 393-395
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001016
abstract: The original version of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox and the Klein paradox of Klein-Gordon (KG) equation are discussed to show the necessity of existence of antiparticle with its wavefunction being fixed unambiguously. No concept of "hole" is needed.

id: quant-ph/0001017
title: Some conceptual issues involving probability in quantum mechanics
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, Patrick Suppes
comments: LaTeX2e, 13 pages, to appear in the proceedings in honor of Arthur Fine
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001017
abstract: We discuss some issues about probability in quantum mechanics, with particular emphasis on the GHZ theorem. We propose the usage of nonmonotonic upper probabilities as a tool to derive consistent joint upper probabilities for systems where only contextual hidden variables are possible.

id: quant-ph/0001018
title: Quantum computation with mesoscopic superposition states
authors: M. C. de Oliveira, W. J. Munro
comments: 9 pages, 5 Postscript and 1 Encapsulated Postscript figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 61, 042309 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001018
abstract: We present a strategy to engineer a simple cavity-QED two-bit universal quantum gate using mesoscopic distinct quantum superposition states. The dissipative effect on decoherence and amplitude damping of the quantum bits are analyzed and the critical parameters are presented.

id: quant-ph/0001019
title: What does Psi tell us in hell?
authors: Ping Zhu, Gao Shan
comments: This paper has been removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001019
abstract: This paper was removed by arXiv admin due to metadata abuse.

id: quant-ph/0001020
title: Influence of measurement on the life-time and the line-width of unstable systems
authors: Brahim Elattari, S.A. Gurvitz
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, comments and references added; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A62 (2000) 032102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001020
abstract: We investigate the quantum Zeno effect in the case of electron tunneling out of a quantum dot in the presence of continuous monitoring by a detector. It is shown that the Schr\"odinger equation for the whole system can be reduced to Bloch-type rate equations describing the combined time-development of the detector and the measured system. Using these equations we find that continuous measurement of the unstable system does not affect its exponential decay to a reservoir with a constant density of states. The width of the energy distribution of the tunneling electron, however, is not equal to the inverse life-time -- it increases due to the decoherence generated by the detector. We extend the analysis to the case of a reservoir described by an energy dependent density of states, and we show that continuous measurement of such quantum systems affects both the exponential decay rate and the energy distribution. The decay does not always slow down, but might be accelerated. The energy distribution of the tunneling electron may reveal the lines invisible before the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0001021
title: Hidden assumptions in decoherence theory
authors: Italo Vecchi
comments: Tex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001021
abstract: The role of implicit assumptions in current decoherence theory is pointed out and clarified.

id: quant-ph/0001023
title: Modification of relative entropy of Entanglement
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4 pages, no figure, Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001023
abstract: We present the modified relative entropy of entanglement (MRE) in order to both improve the computability for the relative entropy of entanglement and avoid the problem that the entanglement of formation seems to be greater than entanglement of distillation. For two qubit system we derive out an explicit and "weak" closed expression of MRE that depends on the pure state decompositions in the case of mixed states. For more qubit system, we obtain an algorithm to calculate MRE in principle. MRE significantly improves the computability of relative entropy of entanglement and decreases the dependence and sensitivity on the pure state decompositions. Moreover it is able to inherit most of the important physical features of the relative entropy of entanglement. In addition, a kind of states, as an extension of Werner's states, is discussed constructively.

id: quant-ph/0001024
title: Incompatibility of the de Broglie-Bohm Theory with Quantum Mechanics
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: This paper which uses plane waves, a technical defect, is superceded by a more comprehensive paper quant-ph/0103126
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001024
abstract: t is shown that although the de Broglie-Bohm quantum theory of motion is equivalent to standard quantum mechanics when averages of dynamical variables are taken over a Gibbs ensemble of Bohmian trajectories, the equivalence breaks down for ensembles built over clearly separated short intervals of time in special multi-particle systems. This feature is exploited to propose a realistic experiment to distinguish between the two theories.

id: quant-ph/0001025
title: Quantum Mechanics As A Limiting Case of Classical Mechanics
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 18 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001025
abstract: In spite of its popularity, it has not been possible to vindicate the conventional wisdom that classical mechanics is a limiting case of quantum mechanics. The purpose of the present paper is to offer an alternative point of view in which quantum mechanics emerges as a limiting case of classical mechanics in which the classical system is decoupled from its environment.

id: quant-ph/0001026
title: Generalized Affine Coherent States: A Natural Framework for Quantization of Metric-like Variables
authors: Glenn Watson, John R. Klauder
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 41 (2000) 8072-8082
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001026
abstract: Affine variables, which have the virtue of preserving the positive-definite character of matrix-like objects, have been suggested as replacements for the canonical variables of standard quantization schemes, especially in the context of quantum gravity. We develop the kinematics of such variables, discussing suitable coherent states, their associated resolution of unity, polarizations, and finally the realization of the coherent-state overlap function in terms of suitable path-integral formulations.

id: quant-ph/0001027
title: New nonlinear coherent states and some of their nonclassical properties
authors: B.Roy, P.Roy
comments: 3 eps figures. to appear in J.Opt B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001027
abstract: We construct a displacement operator type nonlinear coherent state and examine some of its properties. In particular it is shown that this nonlinear coherent state exhibits nonclassical properties like squeezing and sub-Poissonian behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0001028
title: Generalized intelligent states and SU(1,1) and SU(2) squeezing
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 8 pages. An extended version of this preprint (declined in 1993 from a respectful journal) appeared in J.Math.Phys. 35, 2297 (1994)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001028
abstract: A sufficient condition for a state |\psi> to minimize the Robertson-Schr\"{o}dinger uncertainty relation for two observables A and B is obtained which for A with no discrete spectrum is also a necessary one. Such states, called generalized intelligent states (GIS), exhibit arbitrarily strong squeezing (after Eberly) of A and B. Systems of GIS for the SU(1,1) and SU(2) groups are constructed and discussed. It is shown that SU(1,1) GIS contain all the Perelomov coherent states (CS) and the Barut and Girardello CS while the Bloch CS are subset of SU(2) GIS.

id: quant-ph/0001029
title: From time inversion to nonlinear QED
authors: Wei Min Jin
comments: LaTex2e 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: Found.Phys. 30 (2000) 1943-1973
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001029
abstract: In Minkowski flat space-time, it is perceived that time inversion is unitary rather than antiunitary, with energy being a time vector changing sign under time inversion. The Dirac equation, in the case of electromagnetic interaction, is not invariant under unitary time inversion, giving rise to a ``Klein paradox''. To render unitary time inversion invariance, a nonlinear wave equation is constructed, in which the ``Klein paradox'' disappears. In the case of Coulomb interaction, the revised nonlinear equation can be linearized to give energy solutions for Hydrogen-like ions without singularity when nuclear number $Z>137$, showing a reversed energy order pending for experimental tests such as Zeeman effects. In non-relativistic limit, this nonlinear equation reduces to nonlinear schr\"odinger equation with soliton-like solutions. Moreover, particle conjugation and electron-proton scattering with a nonsingular current-potential interaction are discussed. Finally the explicit form of gauge function is found, the uniqueness of Lorentz gauge is proven and the Lagrangian density of quantum electrodynamics (QED) is revised as well. The implementation of unitary time inversion leads to the ultimate derivation of nonlinear QED.

id: quant-ph/0001030
title: Hardy-type experiment for the maximally entangled state: Illustrating the problem of subensemble postselection
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX, elsart preprint style, 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 263 (1999) 232-244
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001030
abstract: By selecting a certain subensemble of joint detection events in a two-particle interferometer arrangement, a formal nonlocality contradiction of the Hardy type is derived for an ensemble of particle pairs configured in the maximally entangled state. It is argued, however, that the class of experiments exhibiting this kind of contradiction does not rule out the assumption of local realism.

id: quant-ph/0001031
title: Bound states of neutral particles in external electric fields
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: REVTeX, 14 pages, no figure
journal: Phys.Rev. A61 (2000) 022101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001031
abstract: Neutral fermions of spin $\frac 12$ with magnetic moment can interact with electromagnetic fields through nonminimal coupling. The Dirac--Pauli equation for such a fermion coupled to a spherically symmetric or central electric field can be reduced to two simultaneous ordinary differential equations by separation of variables in spherical coordinates. For a wide variety of central electric fields, bound-state solutions of critical energy values can be found analytically. The degeneracy of these energy levels turns out to be numerably infinite. This reveals the possibility of condensing infinitely many fermions into a single energy level. For radially constant and radially linear electric fields, the system of ordinary differential equations can be completely solved, and all bound-state solutions are obtained in closed forms. The radially constant field supports scattering solutions as well. For radially linear fields, more energy levels (in addition to the critical one) are infinitely degenerate. The simultaneous presence of central magnetic and electric fields is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0001032
title: Scattering theory from microscopic first principles
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, Stefan Teufel, Nino Zanghi
comments: To appear in Physica A, May 2000
journal: Physica A, Volume 279, 416-431 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001032
abstract: We sketch a derivation of abstract scattering theory from the microscopic first principles defined by Bohmian mechanics. We emphasize the importance of the flux-across-surfaces theorem for the derivation, and of randomness in the impact parameter of the initial wave function---even for an, inevitably inadequate, orthodox derivation.

id: quant-ph/0001033
title: Adiabatic Output Coupling of a Bose Gas at Finite Temperatures
authors: S. Choi, Y. Japha, K. Burnett
comments: 22 pages, 6 Figs. To appear in Physical Review A All the typos from the previous submission have been fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001033
abstract: We develop a general theory of adiabatic output coupling from trapped atomic Bose-Einstein Condensates at finite temperatures. For weak coupling, the output rate from the condensate, and the excited levels in the trap, settles in a time proportional to the inverse of the spectral width of the coupling to the output modes. We discuss the properties of the output atoms in the quasi-steady-state where the population in the trap is not appreciably depleted. We show how the composition of the output beam, containing condensate and thermal component, may be controlled by changing the frequency of the output coupler. This composition determines the first and second order coherence of the output beam. We discuss the changes in the composition of the bose gas left in the trap and show how nonresonant output coupling can stimulate either the evaporation of thermal excitations in the trap or the growth of non-thermal excitations, when pairs of correlated atoms leave the condensate.

id: quant-ph/0001034
title: Inequalities for dealing with detector inefficiencies in Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type experiments
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, P. Suppes
comments: LaTeX2e, 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001034
abstract: In this article we show that the three-particle GHZ theorem can be reformulated in terms of inequalities, allowing imperfect correlations due to detector inefficiencies. We show quantitatively that taking into accout those inefficiencies, the published results of the Innsbruck experiment support the nonexistence of local hidden variables that explain the experimental result.

id: quant-ph/0001035
title: Bound entanglement and continuous variables
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, improved and corrected version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett., typo in Ref. [18] corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001035
abstract: We introduce the definition of generic bound entanglement for the case of continuous variables. We provide some examples of bound entangled states for that case, and discuss their physical sense in the context of quantum optics. We rise the question of whether the entanglement of these states is generic. As a byproduct we obtain a new many parameter family of bound entangled states with positive partial transpose. We also point out that the ``entanglement witnesses'' and positive maps revealing the corresponding bound entanglement can be easily constructed.

id: quant-ph/0001036
title: Antibunching effect of the radiation field in a microcavity with a mirror undergoing heavily damping oscillation
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Chang-pu Sun
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001036
abstract: The interaction between the radiation field in a microcavity with a mirror undergoing damping oscillation is investigated. Under the heavily damping cases, the mirror variables are adiabatically eliminated. The the stationary conditions of the system are discussed. The small fluctuation approximation around steady values is applied to analysis the antibunching effect of the cavity field. The antibunching condition is given under two limit cases.

id: quant-ph/0001037
title: Hybrid exciton-polaritons in a bad microcavity containing the organic and inorganic quantum wells
authors: Yu-Xi Liu, Chang-pu Sun
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. appear in Communications in Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001037
abstract: We study the hybrid exciton-polaritons in a bad microcavity containing the organic and inorganic quantum wells. The corresponding polariton states are given. The analytical solution and the numerical result of the stationary spectrum for the cavity field are finished

id: quant-ph/0001038
title: Anharmonic oscillators energies via artificial perturbation method
authors: Omar Mustafa, Maen Odeh
comments: 22 pages, Latex file, to appear in the Eur. Phys. J. B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 15, 143 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001038
abstract: A new pseudoperturbative (artificial in nature) methodical proposal [15] is used to solve for Schrodinger equation with a class of phenomenologically useful and methodically challenging anharmonice oscillator potentials V(q)=\alpha_o q^2 + \alpha q^4. The effect of the [4,5] Pade' approximant on the leading eigenenergy term is studied. Comparison with results from numerical (exact) and several eligible (approximation) methods is made.

id: quant-ph/0001039
title: Time dependence of evanescent quantum waves
authors: J. G. Muga, M. Buttiker
comments: 16 text pages and 9 postscript figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 62 (2000) 023808
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001039
abstract: The time dependence of quantum evanescent waves generated by a point source with an infinite or a limited frequency band is analyzed. The evanescent wave is characterized by a forerunner (transient) related to the precise way the source is switched on. It is followed by an asymptotic, monochromatic wave which at long times reveals the oscillation frequency of the source. For a source with a sharp onset the forerunner is exponentially larger than the monochromatic solution and a transition from the transient regime to the asymtotic regime occurs only at asymptotically large times. In this case, the traversal time for tunneling plays already a role only in the transient regime. To enhance the monochromatic solution compared to the forerunner we investigate (a) frequency band limited sources and (b) the short time Fourier analysis (the spectrogram) corresponding to a detector which is frequency band limited. Neither of these two methods leads to a precise determination of the traversal time. However, if they are limited to determine the traversal time only with a precision of the traversal time itself both methods are successful: In this case the transient behavior of the evanescent waves is at a time of the order of the traversal time followed by a monochromatic wave which reveals the frequency of the source.

id: quant-ph/0001040
title: First Single Bubble Sonoluminescence in Dubna
authors: V.B. Belyaev, M.B. Miller, A.V. Sermyagin
comments: 1 page; submitted to 7th Symposium on Sonochemistry, Yonezava, Oct.1998, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001040
abstract: At the Institute in Physical-Technical Problems experiments on sonoluminescence was started by our group at the beginning of 1998. The study was focused at properties of the SBSL, and the aim was to find more optimum conditions for a search for some recently predicted rare effects in SBSL- process.

id: quant-ph/0001041
title: CSL Collapse Model And Spontaneous Radiation: An Update
authors: Philip Pearle, James Ring, Juan I. Collar, Frank T. Avignone III
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Foundations of Physics 29, 465 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001041
abstract: A brief review is given of the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) model in which a classical field interacts with quantized particles to cause dynamical wavefunction collapse. One of the model's predictions is that particles "spontaneously" gain energy at a slow rate. When applied to the excitation of a nucleon in a Ge nucleus, it is shown how a limit on the relative collapse rates of neutron and proton could be obtained, and a rough estimate is made from data. When applied to the spontaneous excitation of 1s electrons in Ge, by a more detailed analysis of more accurate data than previously given, an updated limit is obtained on the relative collapse rates of the electron and proton, suggesting that the coupling of the field to electrons and nucleons is mass proportional.

id: quant-ph/0001042
title: Is Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics compatible with Duality
authors: M. Capdequi-Peyranere
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A14 (1999) 2657-2666
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001042
abstract: Supersymmetry applied to quantum mechanics has given new insights in various topics of theoretical physics like analytically solvable potentials, WKB approximation or KdV solitons. Duality plays a central role in many supersymmetric theories such as Yang-Mills theories or strings models. We investigate the possible existence of some duality within supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0001043
title: Quantization of Soliton Cellular Automata
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Elena P. Papadopoulou, Yiannis G. Saridakis
comments: Latex, 6 pages, 1 figure in eps format included. Submitted to Journal of Nonlinear Mathematical Physics. Special Issue of Proccedings of NEEDS'99
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001043
abstract: A method of quantization of classical soliton cellular automata (QSCA) is put forward that provides a description of their time evolution operator by means of quantum circuits that involve quantum gates from which the associated Hamiltonian describing a quantum chain model is constructed. The intrinsic parallelism of QSCA, a phenomenon first known from quantum computers, is also emphasized.

id: quant-ph/0001044
title: Quantum key distribution based on Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Guihua Zeng
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001044
abstract: An unsymmetrical quantum key distribution scheme is proposed, its security is guaranteed by the correlation of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger triplet state. In the proposed protocol, the distribution of quantum states are unsymmetrical. This unsymmetrical characteristic makes the transmission qubits (except the loss qubits) be useful. Sequentially the proposed protocol has excellent efficiency and security which are very useful in the practical application.

id: quant-ph/0001045
title: Quantum key distribution relied on trusted information center
authors: Guihua Zeng, Zhongyang Wang, Xinmei Wang
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001045
abstract: Quantum correlation between two particles and among three particles show nonclassic properties that can be used for providing secure transmission of information. In this paper, we propose two quantum key distribution schemes for quantum cryptographic network, which use the correlation properties of two and three particles. One is implemented by the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, and another is implemented by the Bell states. These schemes need a trusted information center like that in the classic cryptography. The optimal efficiency of the proposed protocols are higher than that in the previous schemes.

id: quant-ph/0001046
title: Quantum authentication protocol
authors: Guihua Zeng, Guangcan Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001046
abstract: In this letter, we proposed a quantum authentication protocol. The authentication process is implemented by the symmetric cryptographic scheme with quantum effects.

id: quant-ph/0001047
title: Quantum Diffusions and Appell Systems
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas
comments: Latex 12 pages, no figures. Submitted to Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics. Special Issue of Proccedings of Fifth Inter. Symp. on Orthogonal Polynomaials, Special Functions and their Applications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001047
abstract: Within the algebraic framework of Hopf algebras, random walks and associated diffusion equations (master equations) are constructed and studied for two basic operator algebras of Quantum Mechanics i.e the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra (hw) and its q-deformed version hw_q. This is done by means of functionals determined by the associated coherent state density operators. The ensuing master equations admit solutions given by hw and hw_q-valued Appell systems.

id: quant-ph/0001048
title: Brownian motion on a smash line
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Ioannis Tsohantjis
comments: Latex, 6 pages no figures. Submitted to Journal of Nonlinear Mathematical Physics. Special Issue of Proccedings of NEEDS'99
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001048
abstract: Brownian motion on a smash line algebra (a smash or braided version of the algebra resulting by tensoring the real line and the generalized paragrassmann line algebras), is constructed by means of its Hopf algebraic structure. Further, statistical moments, non stationary generalizations and its diffusion limit are also studied. The ensuing diffusion equation posseses triangular matrix realizations.

id: quant-ph/0001049
title: A Generalized Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian and Supersymmetric Shape-Invariance
authors: A.N.F. Aleixo, A.B. Balantekin, M.A. Candido Ribeiro
comments: 7 pages
journal: J.Phys.A33:3173-3178,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001049
abstract: A class of shape-invariant bound-state problems which represent two-level systems are introduced. It is shown that the coupled-channel Hamiltonians obtained correspond to the generalization of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0001050
title: Quantum nonlinear lattices and coherent state vectors
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Magnus Johansson, Peter L Christiansen
comments: 17 pages, Latex, 9 figures in ps format
journal: Physica D, vol. 134, 126 - 143 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001050
abstract: Quantized nonlinear lattice models are considered for two different classes, boson and fermionic ones. The quantum discrete nonlinear Schroedinger model (DNLS) is our main objective, but its so called modified discrete nonlinear (MDNLS) version is also included, together with the fermionic polaron (FP) model. Based on the respective dynamical symmetries of the models, a method is put forward which by use of the associated boson and spin coherent state vectors (CSV) and a factorization ansatz for the solution of the Schroedinger equation, leads to quasiclassical Hamiltonian equations of motion for the CSV parameters. Analysing the geometrical content of the factorization ansatz made for the state vectors invokes the study of the Riemannian and symplectic geometry of the CSV manifolds as generalized phase spaces. Next, we investigate analytically and numerically the behavior of mean values and uncertainties of some physically interesting observables as well as the modifications in the quantum regime of processes such as the discrete self trapping (DST), in terms of the Q-function and the distribution of excitation quanta of the lattice sites. Quantum DST in the symmetric ordering of lattice operators is found to be relatively enhanced with respect to the classical DST. Finally, the meaning of the factorization ansatz for the lattice wave function is explained in terms of disregarded quantum correlations, and as a quantitative figure of merit for that ansatz a correlation index is introduced.

id: quant-ph/0001051
title: Spin dynamics of wave packets evolving with the Dirac Hamiltonian in atoms with high Z
authors: R.Arvieu, P.Rozmej, M.Turek
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, LaTeX2e, uses IOP style files (included). Title changed, one reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62 (2000) 022514
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001051
abstract: The motion of circular WP for one electron in central Coulomb field with high Z is calculated. The WP is defined in terms of solutions of the Dirac equation in order to take into account all possible relevant effects in particular the spin-orbit potential. A time scale is defined within which spin dynamics must be taken into account mainly in the atoms with high Z. Within this time scale there exists a mechanism of collapses and revivals of the spin already shown by the authors for harmonic oscillator potential and called the 'spin-orbit pendulum'. However this effect has not the exact periodicity of the simpler model, but the WP's spatial motion is nevertheless quite similar.

id: quant-ph/0001052
title: Canonical Quantum Teleportation
authors: Sixia Yu, Chang-Pu Sun
comments: revtex,4 pages,e-mail:suncp@itp.ac.cn www.itp.ac.cn/~suncp; The Institute of Theoretical Physics, Academia Sinica, Beijing 100080, P.R. China
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001052
abstract: Canonically conjugated observables such as position-momentum and phase-number are found to play a 3-fold role in the drama of the quantum teleportation. Firstly, the common eigenstate of two commuting canonical observables like phase-difference and number-sum provides the quantum channel between two systems. Secondly, a similar pair of canonical observables from another two systems is measured in the Bell operator measurements.

id: quant-ph/0001053
title: Positive Maps Which Are Not Completely Positive
authors: Sixia Yu
comments: 4pages,The Institute of Theoretical Physics, Academia Sinica, Beijing 100080, P.R. China
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001053
abstract: The concept of the {\em half density matrix} is proposed. It unifies the quantum states which are described by density matrices and physical processes which are described by completely positive maps. With the help of the half-density-matrix representation of Hermitian linear map, we show that every positive map which is not completely positive is a {\em difference} of two completely positive maps. A necessary and sufficient condition for a positive map which is not completely positive is also presented, which is illustrated by some examples.

id: quant-ph/0001054
title: An Approach to Measurement by Quantum-Stochastic-Parameter Averaged Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Jose Ignacio Usera
comments: 37 pages, No figures, LateX 2.09, Typos and some extra text formatting added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001054
abstract: A coarse-grained quantum operator technique is used along with the formalism of Bohmian mechanics endowed with stochastic character at the quantum level in order to address some central issues in the quantum theory of measurement. A surprisingly simple picture of decoherence and EPR correlations emerges from its use.

id: quant-ph/0001055
title: Comment on "Giant absorption cross section of ultracold neutrons in Gadolinium"
authors: J. Felber, R. Gaehler, R.Golub
comments: 2 pages, 1 postscript figure, comment on Rauch et al, PRL 83,4955 (1999)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001055
abstract: Rauch et al (PRL 83, 4955, 1999) have compared their measurements of the Gd cross section for Ultra-cold neutrons with an exptrapolation of the cross section for thermal neutrons and interpreted the discrepancy in terms of coherence properties of the neutron. We show the extrapolation used is based on a misunderstanding and that coherence properties play no role in absorption.

id: quant-ph/0001056
title: Sensitivity to measurement perturbation of single atom dynamics in cavity QED
authors: X.M.Liu, M.Hug, G.J.Milburn
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001056
abstract: We consider continuous observation of the nonlinear dynamics of single atom trapped in an optical cavity by a standing wave with intensity modulation. The motion of the atom changes the phase of the field which is then monitored by homodyne detection of the output field. We show that the conditional Hilbert space dynamics of this system, subject to measurement induced perturbations, depends strongly on whether the corresponding classical dynamics is regular or chaotic. If the classical dynamics is chaotic the distribution of conditional Hilbert space vectors corresponding to different observation records tends to be orthogonal. This is a characteristic feature of hypersensitivity to perturbation for quantum chaotic systems.

id: quant-ph/0001057
title: Discussion: Byrne and Hall on Everett and Chalmers
authors: L. Vaidman
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001057
abstract: Byrne and Hall (1999) criticized the argument of Chalmers (1996) in favor of the Everett-style interpretation. They claimed to show ``the deep and underappreciated flaw in ANY Everett-style interpretation''. I will argue that it is possible to interpret Chalmers's writing in such a way that most of the criticism by Byrne and Hall does not apply. In any case their general criticism of the many-worlds interpretation is unfounded. The recent recognition that the Everett-style interpretations are good (if not the best) interpretations of quantum mechanics has, therefore, not been negated.

id: quant-ph/0001058
title: Freezing Light via hot gases
authors: Olga Kocharovskaya, Yuri Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001058
abstract: We prove that it is possible to freeze a light pulse (i.e., to bring it to a full stop) or even to make its group velocity negative in a coherently driven Doppler broadened atomic medium via electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). This remarkable phenomenon of the ultra-slow EIT polariton is based on the spatial dispersion of the refraction index $n(\w,k)$, i.e., its wavenumber dependence, which is due to atomic motion and provides a negative contribution to the group velocity. This is related to, but qualitatively different from, the recently observed light slowing caused by large temporal (frequency) dispersion.

id: quant-ph/0001059
title: Geometric Phase, Curvature, and Extrapotentials in Constrained Quantum Systems
authors: Kevin A. Mitchell
comments: 27 pages with 1 figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001059
abstract: We derive an effective Hamiltonian for a quantum system constrained to a submanifold (the constraint manifold) of configuration space (the ambient space) by an infinite restoring force. We pay special attention to how this Hamiltonian depends on quantities which are external to the constraint manifold, such as the external curvature of the constraint manifold, the (Riemannian) curvature of the ambient space, and the constraining potential. In particular, we find the remarkable fact that the twisting of the constraining potential appears as a gauge potential in the constrained Hamiltonian. This gauge potential is an example of geometric phase, closely related to that originally discussed by Berry. The constrained Hamiltonian also contains an effective potential depending on the external curvature of the constraint manifold, the curvature of the ambient space, and the twisting of the constraining potential. The general nature of our analysis allows applications to a wide variety of problems, such as rigid molecules, the evolution of molecular systems along reaction paths, and quantum strip waveguides.

id: quant-ph/0001060
title: Universal Quantum Entanglement Concentration Gate
authors: Zi-Yang Wang, Chuan-Wei Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 Pages, No Figure, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001060
abstract: We construct a Universal Quantum Entanglement Concentration Gate (QEC-Gate). Special times operations of QEC-Gate can transform a pure 2-level bipartite entangled state to nearly maximum entanglement. The transformation can attain any required fidelity with optimal probability by adjusting concentration step. We also generate QEC-Gate to the Schmidt decomposable multi-partite system.

id: quant-ph/0001061
title: Causality and probabilistic interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Slavnov D. A
comments: 10 pages. Submitted to "Theoretical and Mathematical Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001061
abstract: It is shown that probabilistic treatment of quantum mechanics can be coordinated with causality of all physical processes. The physical interpretation of quantum-mechanical phenomena such as process of measurement and collapse of quantum state is given.

id: quant-ph/0001062
title: Canonical pairs, Spatially Confined Motion and the Quantum Time of Arrival Problem
authors: Eric A. Galapon
comments: 6 pages, iop style file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001062
abstract: It has always been believed that no self-adjoint and canonical time of arrival operator can be constructed within the confines of standard quantum mechanics. In this Letter we demonstrate the otherwise. We do so by pointing out that there is no a priori reason in demanding that canonical pairs form a system of imprimitivities. We then proceed to show that a class of self-adjoint and canonical time of arrival (TOA) operators can be constructed for a spatially confined free particle. And then discuss the relatiobship between the non-self-adjointess of the TOA operator for the unconfined particle and the self-adjointness of the confined one.

id: quant-ph/0001063
title: Multiparticle SUSY quantum mechanics and the representations of permutation group
authors: M. V. Ioffe, A. I. Neelov
comments: 20 pages, Latex,no figures
journal: J.Phys.A33:1581,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001063
abstract: The method of multidimensional SUSY Quantum Mechanics is applied to the investigation of supersymmetrical N-particle systems on a line for the case of separable center-of-mass motion. New decompositions of the superhamiltonian into block-diagonal form with elementary matrix components are constructed. Matrices of coefficients of these minimal blocks are shown to coincide with matrices of irreducible representations of permutations group S_N, which correspond to the Young tableaux (N-M,1^M). The connections with known generalizations of N-particle Calogero and Sutherland models are established.

id: quant-ph/0001064
title: Quantum interfaces
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 13 pages
journal: in "Sciences of the Interface", ed. by H. H. Diebner, T. Druckrey and P. Weibel (Genista, Tuebingen, Germany, 2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001064
abstract: Rational agents acting as observers use ``knowables'' to construct a vision of the outside world. Thereby, they are bound by the information exchanged with what they consider to be objects. The cartesian cut or, in modern terminology, the interface mediating this exchange, is again a construction. It serves as a ``scaffolding,'' an intermediate construction capable of providing the necessary conceptual means. An attempt is made to formalize the interface, in particular the quantum interface and quantum measurements, by a symbolic information exchange. A principle of conservation of information is reviewed and a measure of information flux through the interface is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0001065
title: Optical Fock-state synthesizer
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, L. Maccone, M. G. A. Paris, M. F. Sacchi
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, 4 figs, submitted PRL 03Feb99, accepted PRA 18jan00
journal: Phys. Rev. A v61 053817 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001065
abstract: We suggest a tunable optical device to synthesize Fock states and their superpositions starting from a coherent source. The scheme involves an avalanche triggering photodetector and a ring cavity coupled to a traveling wave through a cross-Kerr medium. Low quantum efficiency at the photodetector improves the synthesizing quality at the expense of reducing the synthesizing rate.

id: quant-ph/0001066
title: Efficient factorization with a single pure qubit and $log N$ mixed qubits
authors: S. Parker, M.B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages including 2 figures. Final version submitted to PRL. Now includes additional comments on entanglement and mixedness as algorithm proceeds. Added references to work by Mosca
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3049 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001066
abstract: It is commonly assumed that Shor's quantum algorithm for the efficient factorization of a large number $N$ requires a pure initial state. Here we demonstrate that a single pure qubit together with a collection of $log_2 N$ qubits in an arbitrary mixed state is sufficient to implement Shor's factorization algorithm efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0001067
title: Approach to the semiconductor cavity QED in high-Q regimes with q-deformed boson
authors: Yu-Xi Liu, C.P Sun, S.X.Yu, D.L.Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001067
abstract: The high density Frenkel exciton which interacts with a single mode microcavity field is dealed with in the framework of the q-deformed boson. It is shown that the q-defomation of bosonic commutation relations is satisfied naturally by the exciton operators when the low density limit is deviated. An analytical expression of the physical spectrum for the exciton is given by using of the dressed states of the cavity field and the exciton. We also give the numerical study and compare the theoretical results with the experimental results

id: quant-ph/0001068
title: Quantum Decoherence from Adiabatic Entanglement
authors: C.P.Sun, D.L.Zhou, S.Yu, X.F.Liu
comments: 47 pages,6 figs,Revtex4, Institute of Theoretical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001068
abstract: In order to understand quantum decoherence of a quantum system due to its interaction with a large system behaving classically, we introduce the concept of adiabatic quantum entanglement based on the Born-Oppenhemeir approximation. In the adiabatic limit, it is shown that the wave function of the total system formed by the quantum system plus the large system can be factorized as an entangled state with correlation between adiabatic quantum states and quasi-classical motion configurations of the large system. In association with a novel viewpoint about quantum measurement, which has been directly verified by most recent experiments [e.g, S. Durr et.al, Nature 33, 359 (1998)], it is shown that the adiabatic entanglement is indeed responsible for the quantum decoherence and thus it can be regarded as a "clean" quantum measurement when the large system behaves as a classical object. The large system being taken respectively to be a macroscopically distinguishable spatial variable, a high spin system and a harmonic oscillator with a coherent initial state, three illustrations are present with their explicit solutions in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0001069
title: Comment on "Hidden assumptions in decoherence theory"
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: 2 Pages RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001069
abstract: It is shown that the conclusion of the paper "Hidden assumptions in decoherence theory" (quant-ph/0001021) is the result of a misunderstanding of the concept of pointer states. It is argued that pointer states are selected by the interaction of quantum systems with the environment, and are not based on any measurement by a conscious observer.

id: quant-ph/0001070
title: The Phenomenological Preparation - Registration Arrow of Time and its Semigroup Representation in the RHS Quantum Theory
authors: Arno R. Bohm, Raymond Scurek
comments: 10 pages, 0 figures, latex
journal: Trends in Quantum Mechanics, H.D. Doebner, S.T. Ali, M. Keyl and R.F. Werner (eds.), World Scientific, Singapore (2000) 167-175.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001070
abstract: The observed probabilities of quantum mechanics possess a time asymmetry which is based on the truism that a state must be prepared before an observable can be measured in it. While Hilbert space quantum theory cannot incorporate this arrow of time, the Rigged Hilbert Space (RHS) formulation of quantum mechanics provides a theory of time symmetric as well as time asymmetric quantum physics.

id: quant-ph/0001071
title: Simulation of topological field theories by quantum computers
authors: Michael H. Freedman, Alexei Kitaev, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 
journal: Commun.Math.Phys. 227 (2002) 587-603
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001071
abstract: Quantum computers will work by evolving a high tensor power of a small (e.g. two) dimensional Hilbert space by local gates, which can be implemented by applying a local Hamiltonian H for a time t. In contrast to this quantum engineering, the most abstract reaches of theoretical physics has spawned topological models having a finite dimensional internal state space with no natural tensor product structure and in which the evolution of the state is discrete, H = 0. These are called topological quantum filed theories (TQFTs). These exotic physical systems are proved to be efficiently simulated on a quantum computer. The conclusion is two-fold: 1. TQFTs cannot be used to define a model of computation stronger than the usual quantum model BQP. 2. TQFTs provide a radically different way of looking at quantum computation. The rich mathematical structure of TQFTs might suggest a new quantum algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0001072
title: Quantum limit of optical magnetometry in the presence of ac-Stark shifts
authors: M. Fleischhauer, A. B. Matsko, M. O. Scully
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001072
abstract: We analyze systematic (classical) and fundamental (quantum) limitations of the sensitivity of optical magnetometers resulting from ac-Stark shifts. We show that in contrast to absorption-based techniques, the signal reduction associated with classical broadening can be compensated in magnetometers based on phase measurements using electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). However due to ac-Stark associated quantum noise the signal-to-noise ratio of EIT-based magnetometers attains a maximum value at a certain laser intensity. This value is independent on the quantum statistics of the light and defines a standard quantum limit of sensitivity. We demonstrate that an EIT-based optical magnetometer in Faraday configuration is the best candidate to achieve the highest sensitivity of magnetic field detection and give a detailed analysis of such a device.

id: quant-ph/0001073
title: Entangled SU(2) and SU(1,1) coherent states
authors: Xiao-Guang Wang, Barry C. Sanders, Shao-hua Pan
comments: 31 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A:Math.Gen. 33(2000)7451-7467.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001073
abstract: Entangled SU(2) and SU(1,1) coherent states are developed as superpositions of multiparticle SU(2) and SU(1,1) coherent states. In certain cases, these are coherent states with respect to generalized su(2) and su(1,1) generators, and multiparticle parity states arise as a special case. As a special example of entangled SU(2) coherent states, entangled binomial states are introduced and these entangled binomial states enable the contraction from entangled SU(2) coherent states to entangled harmonic oscillator coherent states. Entangled SU(2) coherent states are discussed in the context of pairs of qubits. We also introduce the entangled negative binomial states and entangled squeezed states as examples of entangled SU(1,1) coherent states. A method for generating the entangled SU(2) and SU(1,1) coherent states is discussed and degrees of entanglement calculated. Two types of SU(1,1) coherent states are discussed in each case: Perelomov coherent states and Barut-Girardello coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0001074
title: An Epistemological Derivation of Quantum Logic
authors: John Foy
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001074
abstract: This paper deals with the foundations of quantum mechanics. We start by outlining the characterisation, due to Birkhoff and Von Neumann, of the logical structures of the theories of classical physics and quantum mechanics, as boolean and modular lattices respectively. We then derive these descriptions from what we claim are basic properties of any physical theory - i.e. the notion that a quantity in such a theory may be analysed into parts and that the results of this analysis may be treated in languages with an underlying boolean structure. We shall see that in the course of constructing a model of a theory with these properties different indistinguishable possibilities will arise for how the elements of the model may be named, that is to say different possibilities arise for how they can be associated with points from Set. Taking a particular collection of possibilities gives the usual boolean lattice of the propositions of classical physics. Taking all possibilities - in a sense, the set of all things that may be described by physical theories - gives the lattice of quantum mechanical propositions. This gives an interpretation of quantum mechanics as the complete set of such possible descriptions, the complete physical description of the world.

id: quant-ph/0001075
title: Qudit Entanglement
authors: P. Rungta, W. J. Munro, K. Nemoto, P. Deuar, G. J. Milburn, C. M. Caves
comments: Standard LaTeX, 14 pages, no figures, submitted to Dan Walls Memorial Volume, edited by H. Carmichael, R. Glauber, and M. Scully, to be published by Springer
journal: Directions in Quantum Optics, Lecture Notes in Physics 561, 149 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001075
abstract: We consider the separability of various joint states of D-dimensional quantum systems, which we call "qudits." We derive two main results: (i) the separability condition for a two-qudit state that is a mixture of the maximally mixed state and a maximally entangled state; (ii) lower and upper bounds on the size of the neighorhood of separable states surrounding the maximally mixed state for N qudits.

id: quant-ph/0001076
title: Covariance, correlation and entanglement
authors: R I A Davis, R Delbourgo, P D Jarvis
comments: 30 pages, Latex, to appear in J Phys A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001076
abstract: Some new identities for quantum variance and covariance involving commutators are presented, in which the density matrix and the operators are treated symmetrically. A measure of entanglement is proposed for bipartite systems, based on covariance. This works for two- and three-component systems but produces ambiguities for multicomponent systems of composite dimension. Its relationship to angular momentum dispersion for symmetric symmetric spin states is described.

id: quant-ph/0001077
title: Poly-locality in quantum computing
authors: Michael H. Freedman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001077
abstract: A polynomial depth quantum circuit effects, by definition a poly-local unitary transformation of tensor product state space. It is a physically reasonable belief [Fy][L][FKW] that these are precisely the transformations which will be available from physics to help us solve computational problems. The poly-locality of discrete Fourier transform on cyclic groups is at the heart of Shor's factoring algorithm. We describe a class of poly-local transformations, including all the discrete orthogonal wavelet transforms in the hope that these may be helpful in constructing new quantum algorithms. We also observe that even a rather mild violation of poly-locality leads to a model without one-way functions, giving further evidence that poly-locality is an essential concept.

id: quant-ph/0001078
title: Physical model of Schrodinger electron. Feynman convenient way in mathematical description of its quantum behaviour
authors: Josiph Mladenov Rangelov
comments: Latex, 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001078
abstract: The physical model of a nonrelativistic quantized Schrodinger's electron (SE) is offered. The behaviour of the SE well spread elementary electric charge had been understood by means of two independent and different in a frequency and size motions. The description of this resultant motion may be done by substitution of the classical Wiener continuous integral with the quantized Feynmam continuous integral. There are possibility to show by means of the existent not only formal but substantial analogy between the quadratic differential wave equation in partial derivatives of Schrodinger and quadratic differential particle equation in partial derivatives of Hamilton-Jacoby that the addition of a kinetic energy of the stochastic harmonic oscillation of some quantized micro particles to the kinetic energy of classical motion of the same micro particles formally determines their wave behaviour.It turns out the stochastic motion of the quantized micro particles powerfully to break up the smooth thin line of the classical motion of the same micro particle in many broad cylindrically spread path. The SE participate in stochastically roughly determined circumferences within different flats and with different radii, with centres which are successively arranjed over short and very disorderly orientated lines. Therefore the quantized motion of some micro particle cannot be descripted by smooth thin well contured (focused) line, describing the classical motion of the macro particle.

id: quant-ph/0001079
title: The Physical Model of Schrodinger Electron. Schrodinger Convenient Way for Description of its Quantum Behaviour
authors: Josiph Mladenov Rangelov
comments: Latex, 9 pajes, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001079
abstract: The physical model (PhsMdl) of a Schrodinger nonrelativistic quantized electron (ShEl) is built by means of a transition of the quadratic differential particle equation of Hamilton-Jacoby into the quadratic differential wave equation of Schrodinger in this work, which interprets the physical reason of its quantum (wave and stochastic) behaviour by explanation of the physical reason, which forces the classical Lorentz electron (LrEl) to participate in Furthian quantized stochastic oscillation motion, which turn it into quantum ShEl. It is performed that this transition is realized by my consideration the Bohm's quantum potential as a kinetic energy of the forced Furthian quantized stochastic oscillation motion of the ShEl's well spread elementary electric charge close to a smooth thin trajectory of a classical LrEl. There exist as an essential analogy between the Furthian quantum stochastic trembling oscillation motion and the Brownian classical stochastic trembling motion so and between the description of their behaviours.

id: quant-ph/0001080
title: Limitations on the Creation of Maximal Entanglement
authors: Pieter Kok, Samuel L Braunstein
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 064301 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001080
abstract: We study a limited set of optical circuits for creating near maximal polarisation entanglement {\em without} the usual large vacuum contribution. The optical circuits we consider involve passive interferometers, feed-forward detection, down-converters and squeezers. For input vacuum fields we find that the creation of maximal entanglement using such circuits is impossible when conditioned on two detected auxiliary photons. So far, there have been no experiments with more auxiliary photons. Thus, based on the minimum complexity of the circuits required, if near maximal polarisation entanglement is possible it seems unlikely that it will be implemented experimentally with the current resources.

id: quant-ph/0001081
title: Probabilistic quantum cloning via Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: Chuan-Wei Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Zi-Yang Wang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 8 Pages, 4 Figures, final version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62 (2000) 042302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001081
abstract: We propose a probabilistic quantum cloning scheme using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, Bell basis measurements, single-qubit unitary operations and generalized measurements, all of which are within the reach of current technology. Compared to another possible scheme via Tele-CNOT gate [D. Gottesman and I. L. Chuang, Nature 402, 390 (1999)], the present scheme may be used in experiment to clone the states of one particle to those of two different particles with higher probability and less GHZ resources.

id: quant-ph/0001082
title: Quantum Diagonalization of Hermitean Matrices
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 7 pages, Latex2e, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A 34 (2001) 5619
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001082
abstract: To measure an observable of a quantum mechanical system leaves it in one of its eigenstates and the result of the measurement is one of its eigenvalues. This process is shown to be a computational resource. It allows one, in principle, to diagonalize hermitean (N by N) matrices by quantum mechanical measurements only. To do so, one considers the given matrix as an observable of a single spin with appropriate length s=(N-1)/2, which can be measured using a generalized Stern-Gerlach apparatus. Then, each run provides one eigenvalue of the observable. As it is based on the `collapse of the wave function' associated with a measurement, the procedure is neither a digital nor an analog calculation--it defines thus a new quantum mechanical method of computation.

id: quant-ph/0001083
title: Quantum cryptography with 3-state systems
authors: Helle Bechmann-Pasquinucci, Asher Peres
comments: 11 pages Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 3313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001083
abstract: We consider quantum cryptographic schemes where the carriers of information are 3-state particles. One protocol uses four mutually unbiased bases and appears to provide better security than obtainable with 2-state carriers. Another possible method allows quantum states to belong to more than one basis. The security is not better, but many curious features arise.

id: quant-ph/0001084
title: Distillation of GHZ states by selective information manipulation
authors: Oliver Cohen, Todd A. Brun
comments: minor corrections, especially of some numerical values; conclusions unaffected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 5908 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001084
abstract: Methods for distilling maximally entangled tripartite (GHZ) states from arbitrary entangled tripartite pure states are described. These techniques work for virtually any input state. Each technique has two stages which we call primary and secondary distillation. Primary distillation produces a GHZ state with some probability, so that when applied to an ensemble of systems, a certain percentage is discarded. Secondary distillation produces further GHZs from the discarded systems. These protocols are developed with the help of an approach to quantum information theory based on absolutely selective information, which has other potential applications.

id: quant-ph/0001085
title: Nonadditive conditional entropy and its significance for local realism
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001085
abstract: Based on the form invariance of the structures given by Khinchin's axiomatic foundations of information theory and the pseudoadditivity of the Tsallis entropy indexed by q, the concept of conditional entropy is generalized to the case of nonadditive (nonextensive) composite systems. The proposed nonadditive conditional entropy is classically nonnegative but can be negative in the quantum context, indicating its utility for characterizing quantum entanglement. A criterion deduced from it for separability of density matrices for validity of local realism is examined in detail by employing a bipartite spin-1/2 system. It is found that the strongest criterion is obtained in the limit q going to infinity.

id: quant-ph/0001086
title: Decoherence in QED at finite temperature
authors: Z. Haba
comments: Latex, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001086
abstract: We consider a wave packet of a charged particle passing through a cavity filled with photons at temperature T and investigate its localization and interference properties. It is shown that the wave packet becomes localized and the interference disappears with an exponential speed after a sufficiently long path through the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0001087
title: Quantum secret sharing for general access structures
authors: Adam D. Smith
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001087
abstract: We explore the conversion of classical secret-sharing schemes to quantum ones, and how this can be used to give efficient QSS schemes for general adversary structures. Our first result is that quantum secret-sharing is possible for any structure for which no two disjoint sets can reconstruct the secret (this was also proved, somewhat differently, by D. Gottesman). To obtain this we show that a large class of linear classical SS schemes can be converted into quantum schemes of the same efficiency. We also give a necessary and sufficient condiion for the direct conversion of classical schemes into quantum ones, and show that all group homomorphic schemes satisfy it.

id: quant-ph/0001088
title: Daylight quantum key distribution over 1.6 km
authors: W.T. Buttler, R.J. Hughes, S.K. Lamoreaux, G.L. Morgan, J.E. Nordholt, C.G. Peterson
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Submitted to PRL on 14 January 2000 for publication consideration
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001088
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) has been demonstrated over a point-to-point $\sim1.6$-km atmospheric optical path in full daylight. This record transmission distance brings QKD a step closer to surface-to-satellite and other long-distance applications.

id: quant-ph/0001089
title: A Remark on One-Dimensional Many-Body Problems with Point Interactions
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Ludwik Dabrowski, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. B14 (2000) 721
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001089
abstract: The integrability of one dimensional quantum mechanical many-body problems with general contact interactions is extensively studied. It is shown that besides the pure (repulsive or attractive) $\delta$-function interaction there is another singular point interactions which gives rise to a new one-parameter family of integrable quantum mechanical many-body systems. The bound states and scattering matrices are calculated for both bosonic and fermionic statistics.

id: quant-ph/0001090
title: Four Atomic Optical Energy Levels as a Two Qubit Quantum Computer Register
authors: Vladimir L. Ermakov, Alexander R. Kessel, Vitaly V. Samartsev
comments: 7 pages, PostScript, including 4 figures; paper accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the VIII International Readings On Quantum Optics (Kazan, October 27-29, 1999, Russia)
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol. 4061, pp.79-84 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001090
abstract: It is proposed to use four atomic optical energy levels as a two qubit quantum register. A single Pr3+ atom in a monocrystal LaF3 subjected to resonant laser irradiation is used as an example to illustrate the implementation of the universal set of quantum gates. The equilibrium state of this physical system is a desirable input state for quantum computation and therefore there is no need for its special preparation procedure.

id: quant-ph/0001091
title: Local symmetry properties of pure 3-qubit states
authors: H A Carteret, A Sudbery
comments: 32 pages, 5 encapsulated PostScript files for 3 figures. Published version, with minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A 33 (2000), 4981-5002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001091
abstract: Entanglement types of pure states of 3 qubits are classified by means of their stabilisers in the group of local unitary operations. It is shown that the stabiliser is generically discrete, and that a larger stabiliser indicates a stationary value for some local invariant. We describe all the exceptional states with enlarged stabilisers.

id: quant-ph/0001092
title: Quantum network architecture of tight-binding models with substitution sequences
authors: Ilki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: Accepted for publication in J. mod. Optics [Proc. Workshop "Entanglement and Decoherence", Gargnano (Italy), Sept 1999], 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001092
abstract: We study a two-spin quantum Turing architecture, in which discrete local rotations \alpha_m of the Turing head spin alternate with quantum controlled NOT-operations. Substitution sequences are known to underlie aperiodic structures. We show that parameter inputs \alpha_m described by such sequences can lead here to a quantum dynamics, intermediate between the regular and the chaotic variant. Exponential parameter sensitivity characterizing chaotic quantum Turing machines turns out to be an adequate criterion for induced quantum chaos in a quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0001093
title: Consistent Quantum Realism: A Reply to Bassi and Ghirardi
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Latex 14 pages, no figures
journal: J. Stat. Phys. Vol. 99, pp. 1409-1425 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001093
abstract: A recent claim by Bassi and Ghirardi that the consistent (decoherent) histories approach cannot provide a realistic interpretation of quantum theory is shown to be based upon a misunderstanding of the single-framework rule: they have replaced the correct rule with a principle which directly contradicts it. It is their assumptions, not those of the consistent histories approach, which lead to a logical contradiction.

id: quant-ph/0001094
title: Dark-State Polaritons in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: M. Fleischhauer, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001094
abstract: We identify form-stable coupled excitations of light and matter (``dark-state polaritons'') associated with the propagation of quantum fields in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency. The properties of the dark-state polaritons such as the group velocity are determined by the mixing angle between light and matter components and can be controlled by an external coherent field as the pulse propagates. In particular, light pulses can be decelerated and ``trapped'' in which case their shape and quantum state are mapped onto metastable collective states of matter. Possible applications of this reversible coherent-control technique are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0001095
title: Stochastic Resonance and Nonlinear Response by NMR Spectroscopy
authors: L. Viola, E. M. Fortunato, S. Lloyd, C.-H. Tseng, D. G. Cory
comments: 4 pages, 2 encapsulated PostScript figures; REVTeX style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001095
abstract: We revisit the phenomenon of quantum stochastic resonance in the regime of validity of the Bloch equations. We find that a stochastic resonance behavior in the steady-state response of the system is present whenever the noise-induced relaxation dynamics can be characterized via a single relaxation time scale. The picture is validated by a simple nuclear magnetic resonance experiment in water.

id: quant-ph/0001096
title: Noncommutative analysis and quantum physics I. Quantities, ensembles and states
authors: Arnold Neumaier
comments: 46 pages. This is a completely rewritten version of the manuscript (quant-ph/9909080) with nearly the same title. The controversial part has been removed and replaced by an improved concept of states that has various interpretations (e.g., Copenhagen, Bohm) as special cases. Part of the conclusions are different, too; everything is compatible with the orthodox view of quantum mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001096
abstract: A unified conceptual foundation of classical and quantum physics is given, free of undefined terms. Ensembles are defined by extending the `probability via expectation' approach of Whittle to noncommuting quantities. This approach carries no connotations of unlimited repeatability; hence it can be applied to unique systems such as the universe. Precise concepts and traditional results about complementarity, uncertainty and nonlocality follow with a minimum of technicalities. Probabilities are introduced in a generality supporting so-called effects (i.e., fuzzy events). States are defined as partial mappings that provide reference values for certain quantities. An analysis of sharpness properties yields well-known no-go theorems for hidden variables. By dropping the sharpness requirement, hidden variable theories such as Bohmian mechanics can be accommodated, but so-called ensemble states turn out to be a more natural realization of a realistic state concept. The weak law of large numbers explains the emergence of classical properties for macroscopic systems.

id: quant-ph/0001097
title: Quantum mechanics and the continuum problem(II)
authors: O. Yaremchuk
comments: 8 pages, no figures, latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001097
abstract: In one-dimensional case, it is shown that the basic principles of quantum mechanics are properties of the set of intermediate cardinality.

id: quant-ph/0001098
title: A Heuristic Approach to the Relativistic Angular Momentum
authors: Sebastiano Tosto
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001098
abstract: The relativistic angular momentum is introduced as an extension of the non-relativistic analysis of allowed states in the phase space for a quantum particle. The paper shows the conceptual basis of the approach. An interesting feature of the present point of view is that the indistinguishability of identical particles and the Pauli principle are found as corollaries.

id: quant-ph/0001099
title: Physical model of Schrodinger's electron. Heisenberg convenient way for description of its quantum behaviour
authors: Josiph Mladenov Rangelov
comments: Latex, 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001099
abstract: The object of this paper is to discuss the physical interpretation of quantum behaviour of Schrodinger electron (SchEl) and bring to light on the cause for the Heisenberg convenient operator way of its describing, using the nonrelativistic quantum mechanics laws and its mathematical results. We describe the forced stochastically diverse circular oscillation motion, created by force of the electrical interaction of the SchEl's elementary electric charge with the electric intensity of the resultant quantum electromagnetic field of the existing StchVrtPhtns, as a solution of Abraham-Lorentz equation. By dint of this equation we obtain that the smooth thin line of a classical macro particle is rapidly broken of many short and disorderly orientated lines, owing the continuous dispersion of the quantum micro particle (QntMicrPrt) on the StchVrtPhtns. Between two successive scattering the centers of diverse circular oscillations with stochastically various radii are moving along this short disordered line. These circular oscillations lie within the flats, perpendicular to same disordered short line, along which are moving its centers. In a result of same forced circular oscillation motion the smooth thin line of the LrEl is roughly spread and turned out into some cylindrically wide path of the SchEl. Hence the dispersions of different dynamical parameters, determining the state of the SchEl, which are results of its continuously interaction with the resultant quantum electromagnetic field of the StchVrtPhtns. The absence of the smooth thin line trajectory at the circular oscilation moving of the QntMicrPrt forces us to use the matrix elements (Fourier components) of its roughly spread wide cylindrical path for its description.

id: quant-ph/0001100
title: Algebra, Logic and Qubits: Quantum Abacus
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 12 pages LaTeXe, (v2: eq.12 corrected, v3: minor changes)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001100
abstract: The canonical anticommutation relations (CAR) for fermion systems can be represented by finite-dimensional matrix algebra, but it is impossible for canonical commutation relations (CCR) for bosons. After description of more simple case with representation of CAR and (bounded) quantum computational networks via Clifford algebras in the paper are discussed CCR. For representation of the algebra it is not enough to use quantum networks with fixed number of qubits and it is more convenient to consider Turing machine with essential operation of appending new cells for description of infinite tape in finite terms --- it has straightforward generalization for quantum case, but for CCR it is necessary to work with symmetrized version of the quantum Turing machine. The system is called here quantum abacus due to understanding analogy with the ancient counting devices (abacus).

id: quant-ph/0001101
title: Globally singularity-free semi-classical wave functions in closed form
authors: C. Jung, F. Leyvraz, T.H. Seligman
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001101
abstract: We use a factorization technique and representation of canonical transformations to construct globally valid closed form expressions without singularities of semi-classical wave functions for arbitrary smooth potentials over a one-dimensional position space.

id: quant-ph/0001102
title: Quantum Stochastic Resonance in Electron Shelving
authors: S.F. Huelga, M.B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages with 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 62, 052111 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001102
abstract: Stochastic resonance shows that under some circumstances noise can enhance the response of a system to a periodic force. While this effect has been extensively investigated theoretically and demonstrated experimentally in classical systems, there is complete lack of experimental evidence within the purely quantum mechanical domain. Here we demonstrate that stochastic resonance can be exhibited in a single ion and would be experimentally observable using well mastered experimental techniques. We discuss the use of this scheme for the detection of the frequency difference of two lasers to demonstrate that stochastic resonance may have applications in precision measurements at the quantum limit.

id: quant-ph/0001103
title: Husimi Transform of an Operator Product
authors: D. M. Appleby
comments: AMS-Latex, 13 pages
journal: J.Phys.A 33 (2000) 3903-3915
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001103
abstract: It is shown that the series derived by Mizrahi, giving the Husimi transform (or covariant symbol) of an operator product, is absolutely convergent for a large class of operators. In particular, the generalized Liouville equation, describing the time evolution of the Husimi function, is absolutely convergent for a large class of Hamiltonians. By contrast, the series derived by Groenewold, giving the Weyl transform of an operator product, is often only asymptotic, or even undefined. The result is used to derive an alternative way of expressing expectation values in terms of the Husimi function. The advantage of this formula is that it applies in many of the cases where the anti-Husimi transform (or contravariant symbol) is so highly singular that it fails to exist as a tempered distribution.

id: quant-ph/0001104
title: Pulse propagation in three-level medium
authors: Y.T. Pashayan, G.G. Grigoryan
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001104
abstract: We investigate propagation of a pulse pair in a three-level medium under the adiabatic following condition for the general case of unequal oscillator strengths. Exact analytical solutions to the propagation equations have been obtained. It is shown that propagation dynamics strongly depends on the relationship between oscillator strengths. The adiabaticity criterion for the interaction of pulses with three-level media has been derived and analyzed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0001105
title: Quantum Anti-Cloning
authors: David D. Song, Lucien Hardy
comments: 10 pages, reference updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001105
abstract: We derive the transformation for the optimal universal quantum anti-cloner which produces two anti-parallel outputs for a single input state. The fidelity is shown to be 2/3 which is same as the measurement fidelity. We consider a probabilistic quantum anti-cloner and show quantum states can be anti-cloned exactly with non-zero probability and its efficiency is higher than the efficiency of distinguishing between the two states.

id: quant-ph/0001106
title: Quantum Computation by Adiabatic Evolution
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann, Michael Sipser
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures, LaTeX, amssymb,amsmath, BoxedEPS packages; email to farhi@mit.edu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001106
abstract: We give a quantum algorithm for solving instances of the satisfiability problem, based on adiabatic evolution. The evolution of the quantum state is governed by a time-dependent Hamiltonian that interpolates between an initial Hamiltonian, whose ground state is easy to construct, and a final Hamiltonian, whose ground state encodes the satisfying assignment. To ensure that the system evolves to the desired final ground state, the evolution time must be big enough. The time required depends on the minimum energy difference between the two lowest states of the interpolating Hamiltonian. We are unable to estimate this gap in general. We give some special symmetric cases of the satisfiability problem where the symmetry allows us to estimate the gap and we show that, in these cases, our algorithm runs in polynomial time.

id: quant-ph/0001107
title: Entanglement and Open Systems in Algebraic Quantum Field Theory
authors: Rob Clifton, Hans Halvorson
comments: 32 pages, LaTeX
journal: Stud.Hist.Philos.Mod.Phys. 32 (2001) 1-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001107
abstract: Entanglement has long been the subject of discussion by philosophers of quantum theory, and has recently come to play an essential role for physicists in their development of quantum information theory. In this paper we show how the formalism of algebraic quantum field theory (AQFT) provides a rigorous framework within which to analyze entanglement in the context of a fully relativistic formulation of quantum theory. What emerges from the analysis are new practical and theoretical limitations on an experimenter's ability to perform operations on a field in one spacetime region that can disentangle its state from the state of the field in other spacelike-separated regions. These limitations show just how deeply entrenched entanglement is in relativistic quantum field theory, and yield a fresh perspective on the ways in which the theory differs conceptually from both standard nonrelativistic quantum theory and classical relativistic field theory.

id: quant-ph/0001108
title: A modular functor which is universal for quantum computation
authors: Michael Freedman, Michael Larsen, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001108
abstract: We show that the topological modular functor from Witten-Chern-Simons theory is universal for quantum computation in the sense a quantum circuit computation can be efficiently approximated by an intertwining action of a braid on the functor's state space. A computational model based on Chern-Simons theory at a fifth root of unity is defined and shown to be polynomially equivalent to the quantum circuit model. The chief technical advance: the density of the irreducible sectors of the Jones representation, have topological implications which will be considered elsewhere.

id: quant-ph/0001109
title: Covariance Systems on the Projective Line
authors: N. Pinamonti, M. Toller
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001109
abstract: We study the positive-operator-valued measures on the projective real line covariant with respect to the projective group, assuming that the energy is a positive operator. This problem is similar to the more complicated problem of finding the positive-operator-valued measures on the compactified Minkowski space-time covariant with respect to the conformal group. It also describes a time-of-arrival observable for a free particle covariant with respect to linear canonical transformations.

id: quant-ph/0001110
title: Note on Separability of the Werner states in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 179, 447 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001110
abstract: Great progress has been made recently in establishing conditions for separability of a particular class of Werner densities on the tensor product space of $n$ $d$--level systems (qudits). In this brief note we complete the process of establishing necessary and sufficient conditions for separability of these Werner densities by proving the sufficient condition for general n and d.

id: quant-ph/0001111
title: Noether Theorem and the quantum mechanical operators
authors: Wai Bong Yeung
comments: 3 pages,4 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001111
abstract: We show that the quantum mechanical momentum and angular momentum operators are fixed by the Noether theorem for the classical Hamiltonian field theory we proposed.

id: quant-ph/0001112
title: There is no spooky action-at-a-distance in quantum correlations: Resolution of the EPR nonlocality puzzle
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, Revised for better clarity and precision, same results, some references modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001112
abstract: The long-standing puzzle of the nonlocal Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations is resolved. The correct quantum mechanical correlations arise for the case of entangled particles when strict locality is assumed for the probability amplitudes instead of locality for probabilities. Locality of amplitudes implies that measurement on one particle does not collapse the companion particle to a definite state.

id: quant-ph/0001113
title: Actual computational time-cost of the Quantum Fourier Transform in a quantum computer using nuclear spins
authors: A.Saito, K.Kioi, Y.Akagi, N.Hashizume, K.Ohta
comments: 4pages, LaTeX2e file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001113
abstract: We found that the actual computational time-cost of the QFT is O(n 2^n) for large n in a quantum computer using nuclear spins. The computational cost of a quantum algorithm has usually been estimated as the sum of the universal gates required in such ideal mathematical models as the Quantum Turing Machine(QTM) and the quantum circuit. This cost is proportional to an actual time-cost in the physical implementation where all quantum operations can be achieved in the same time. However, if the implementation takes a different time for each quantum gate, there is a possibility that the actual time-cost will have a different behavior from the ideal cost. So we estimated the actual time-cost of the QFT in these implementations by considering the gating time. The actual time-cost is drastically different from O(n^2) estimated by complexity analysis.

id: quant-ph/0001114
title: Entangled Chains
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 16 pages; LaTeX
journal: Contemporary Mathematics 305 (2002) 299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001114
abstract: Consider an infinite collection of qubits arranged in a line, such that every pair of nearest neighbors is entangled: an "entangled chain." In this paper we consider entangled chains with translational invariance and ask how large one can make the nearest neighbor entanglement. We find that it is possible to achieve an entanglement of formation equal to 0.285 ebits between each pair of nearest neighbors, and that this is the best one can do under certain assumptions about the state of the chain.

id: quant-ph/0001115
title: The space of local equivalence classes of mixed two-qubit states
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: This paper is withdrawn by the author. It is superseded by Makhlin's paper quant-ph/0002045
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001115
abstract: This paper is withdrawn by the author. It is superseded by Makhlin's paper quant-ph/0002045.

id: quant-ph/0001116
title: On local invariants of pure three-qubit states
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: LateX, 13 pages. Minor typoes corrected. Published version
journal: J.Phys.A 34 (2001), 643-652
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001116
abstract: We study invariants of three-qubit states under local unitary transformations, i.e. functions on the space of entanglement types, which is known to have dimension 6. We show that there is no set of six independent polynomial invariants of degree less than or equal to 6, and find such a set with maximum degree 8. We describe an intrinsic definition of a canonical state on each orbit, and discuss the (non-polynomial) invariants associated with it.

id: quant-ph/0001117
title: Motional effects of single trapped atomic/ionic qubit
authors: L. You
comments: 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001117
abstract: We investigate theoretical decoherence effects of the motional degrees of freedom of a single trapped atomic/ionic electronically coded qubit. For single bit rotations from a resonant running wave laser field excitation, we found the achievable fidelity to be determined by a single parameter characterized by the motional states. Our quantitative results provide a useful realistic view for current experimental efforts in quantum information and computing.

id: quant-ph/0001118
title: Induced coherence with and without induced emission
authors: H.M. Wiseman, K. Molmer
comments: 3 pages, including 2 postscript figures
journal: Physics Letters A 270, 245-248 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001118
abstract: We analyze signal coherence in the setup of Wang, Zou and Mandel, where two optical downconverters have indistinct idler modes. Quantum interference, caused by indistinguishability of paths, has a visibility proportional to the transmission amplitude between idlers. Classical interference, caused by induced emission, may be complete for any finite transmission.

id: quant-ph/0001119
title: Quantum tunneling dynamics using hydrodynamic trajectories
authors: Eric R. Bittner
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001119
abstract: In this paper we compute quantum trajectories arising from Bohm's causal description of quantum mechanics. Our computational methodology is based upon a finite-element moving least-squares method (MWLS) presented recently by Wyatt and co-workers (Lopreore and Wyatt, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 82}, 5190 (1999)). This method treats the "particles" in the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation as Lagrangian fluid elements which carry the phase, $S$, and density, $\rho$, required to reconstruct the quantum wavefunctions. Here, we compare results obtained via the MWLS procedure to exact results obtained either analytically or by numerical solution of the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation. Two systems are considered: firstly, dynamics in a harmonic well and secondly tunneling dynamics in a double well potential. In the case of tunneling in the double well potential, the quantum potential acts to lower the barrier separating the right and left hand sides of the well permitting trajectories to pass from one side to another. However, as probability density passes from one side to the other, the effective barrier begins to rise and eventually will segregate trajectories in one side from the other. We note that the MWLS trajectories exhibited long time stability in the purely harmonic cases. However, this stability was not evident in the barrier crossing dynamics. Comparisons to exact trajectories obtained via wave packet calculations indicate that the MWLS trajectories tend to underestimate the effects of constructive and destructive interference effects.

id: cond-mat/0001157
title: Photonic excess noise and wave localization
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, M. Patra, P.W. Brouwer
comments: 3 pages including 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 61, 051801 (2000)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001157
abstract: This is a theory for the effect of localization on the super-Poissonian noise of radiation propagating through an absorbing disordered waveguide. Localization suppresses both the mean photon current I and the noise power P, but the Fano factor P/I is found to remain unaffected. For strong absorption the Fano factor has the universal value 1+3f/2 (with f the Bose-Einstein function), regardless of whether the waveguide is long or short compared to the localization length.

id: cond-mat/0001301
title: Decoherence in Bose-Einstein Condensates: towards Bigger and Better Schroedinger Cats
authors: Diego A.R. Dalvit, Jacek Dziarmaga, Wojciech H.Zurek
comments: 12 pages in RevTex; improved presentation; a new comment on decoherence-free pointer subspaces in BEC; accepted in Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001301
abstract: We consider a quantum superposition of Bose-Einstein condensates in two immiscible internal states. A decoherence rate for the resulting Schroedinger cat is calculated and shown to be a significant threat to this macroscopic quantum superposition of BEC's. An experimental scenario is outlined where the decoherence rate due to the thermal cloud is dramatically reduced thanks to trap engineering and "symmetrization" of the environment which allow for the Schroedinger cat to be an approximate pointer states.

id: cond-mat/0001341
title: Laser probing of atomic Cooper pairs
authors: P. Torma, P. Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001341
abstract: We consider a gas of attractively interacting cold Fermionic atoms which are manipulated by laser light. The laser induces a transition from an internal state with large negative scattering length to one with almost no interactions. The process can be viewed as a tunneling of atomic population between the superconducting and the normal states of the gas. It can be used to detect the BCS-ground state and to measure the superconducting order parameter.

id: cond-mat/0001347
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation in Classical Systems
authors: Kestutis Staliunas
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001347
abstract: It is shown, that Bose-Einstein statistical distributions can occur not only in quantum system, but in classical systems as well. The coherent dynamics of the system, or equivalently autocatalytic dynamics in momentum space of the system is the main reason for the Bose-Einstein condensation. A coherence is possible in both quantum and classical systems, and in both cases can lead to Bose-Einstein statistical distribution.

id: cond-mat/0001360
title: Motion of dark solitons in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Th. Busch, J. R. Anglin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, extended version of cond-mat/9809408, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001360
abstract: We use a multiple time scale boundary layer theory to derive the equation of motion for a dark (or `grey') soliton propagating through an effectively one-dimensional cloud of Bose-Einstein condensate, assuming only that the background density and velocity vary slowly on the soliton scale. We show that solitons can exhibit viscous or radiative acceleration (anti-damping), which we estimate as slow but observable on experimental time scales.

id: cond-mat/0001361
title: Numerical Solution of the Two-Dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii Equation for Trapped Interacting Atoms
authors: Sadhan K. Adhikari
comments: 5 pages LATEX, 3 postscript figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 265 (2000) 91-96
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001361
abstract: We present a numerical scheme for solving the time-independent nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation in two dimensions describing the Bose-Einstein condensate of trapped interacting neutral atoms at zero temperature. The trap potential is taken to be of the harmonic-oscillator type and the interaction both attractive and repulsive. The Gross-Pitaevskii equation is numerically integrated consistent with the correct boundary conditions at the origin and in the asymptotic region. Rapid convergence is obtained in all cases studied. In the attractive case there is a limit to the maximum number of atoms in the condensate.

id: cond-mat/0001423
title: Statistics and noise in a quantum measurement process
authors: Yuriy Makhlin, Gerd Schoen, Alexander Shnirman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4578-4581 (2000)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001423
abstract: The quantum measurement process by a single-electron transistor or a quantum point contact coupled to a quantum bit is studied. We find a unified description of the statistics of the monitored quantity, the current, in the regime of strong measurement and expect this description to apply for a wide class of quantum measurements. We derive the probability distributions for the current and charge in different stages of the process. In the parameter regime of the strong measurement the current develops a telegraph-noise behavior which can be detected in the noise spectrum.

id: cond-mat/0001436
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation in Dissipative Systems far from Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Kestutis Staliunas
comments: 7 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0001436
abstract: It is shown, that Bose-Einstein condensation can occur not only in spatially extended equilibrium systems, but also in the systems far from thermal equilibrium, which show order-disorder phase transition. The investigation is performed by solving the Complex Ginzburg-Landau equation, a universal model for nonequilibrium order-disorder phase transitions.

id: cs/0001001
title: Von Neumann Quantum Logic vs. Classical von Neumann Architecture?
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 4 pages LaTeXe, two columns, 1 inline logo, submitted to III International Conference on Soft Computing and Measurements SCM'2000
journal: 
subjects: Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0001001
abstract: The name of John von Neumann is common both in quantum mechanics and computer science. Are they really two absolutely unconnected areas? Many works devoted to quantum computations and communications are serious argument to suggest about existence of such a relation, but it is impossible to touch the new and active theme in a short review. In the paper are described the structures and models of linear algebra and just due to their generality it is possible to use universal description of very different areas as quantum mechanics and theory of Bayesian image analysis, associative memory, neural networks, fuzzy logic.

id: cs/0001013
title: Query Complexity: Worst-Case Quantum Versus Average-Case Classical
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: Withdrawn. The results in the paper only work for a certain subclass of Boolean functions, in which block sensitivity has properties similar to those of ordinary sensitivity. They don't work in general
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0001013
abstract: In this note we investigate the relationship between worst-case quantum query complexity and average-case classical query complexity. Specifically, we show that if a quantum computer can evaluate a total Boolean function f with bounded error using T queries in the worst case, then a deterministic classical computer can evaluate f using O(T^5) queries in the average case, under a uniform distribution of inputs. If f is monotone, we show furthermore that only O(T^3) queries are needed. Previously, Beals et al. (1998) showed that if a quantum computer can evaluate f with bounded error using T queries in the worst case, then a deterministic classical computer can evaluate f using O(T^6) queries in the worst case, or O(T^4) if f is monotone. The optimal bound is conjectured to be O(T^2), but improving on O(T^6) remains an open problem. Relating worst-case quantum complexity to average-case classical complexity may suggest new ways to reduce the polynomial gap in the ordinary worst-case versus worst-case setting.

id: cs/0001014
title: Nondeterministic Quantum Query and Quantum Communication Complexities
authors: Ronald de Wolf
comments: 19 pages, Latex
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing, 32(3):681-699, 2003
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0001014
abstract: We study nondeterministic quantum algorithms for Boolean functions f. Such algorithms have positive acceptance probability on input x iff f(x)=1. In the setting of query complexity, we show that the nondeterministic quantum complexity of a Boolean function is equal to its ``nondeterministic polynomial'' degree. We also prove a quantum-vs-classical gap of 1 vs n for nondeterministic query complexity for a total function. In the setting of communication complexity, we show that the nondeterministic quantum complexity of a two-party function is equal to the logarithm of the rank of a nondeterministic version of the communication matrix. This implies that the quantum communication complexities of the equality and disjointness functions are n+1 if we do not allow any error probability. We also exhibit a total function in which the nondeterministic quantum communication complexity is exponentially smaller than its classical counterpart.

id: gr-qc/0001048
title: On Gravity, Holography and the Quantum
authors: Carsten van de Bruck
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure. Some references added and typos corrected. Some points are (hopefully) made clearer in sections 6 and 7
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0001048
abstract: The holographic principle states that the number of degrees of freedom describing the physics inside a volume (including gravity) is bounded by the area of the boundary (also called the screen) which encloses this volume. A stronger statement is that these (quantum) degrees of freedom live on the boundary and describe the physics inside the volume completely. The obvious question is, what mechanism is behind the holographic principle. Recently, 't Hooft argued that the quantum degrees of freedom on the boundary are not fundamental. We argue that this interpretation opens up the possibility that the mapping between the theory in the bulk (the holographic theory) and the theory on the screen (the dual theory) is always given by a (generalized) procedure of stochastic quantization. We show that gravity causes differences to the situation in Minkowski/Euclidean spacetime and argue that the fictitious coordinate needed in the stochastic quantization procedure can be spatial. The diffusion coefficient of the stochastic process is in general a function of this coordinate. While a mapping of a bulk theory onto a (quantum) boundary theory can be possible, such a mapping does not make sense in spacetimes in which the area of the screen is growing with time. This is connected to the average process in the formalism of stochastic quantization. We show where the stochastic quantization procedure breaks down and argue, in agreement with `t Hooft, that the quantum degrees of freedom are not fundamental degrees of freedom. They appear as a limit of a more complex process.

id: hep-ph/0001206
title: On the Mass and Width of the Z-boson and Other Relativistic Quasistable Particles
authors: Arno R. Bohm, N. L. Harshman
comments: 23 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys.B581:91-115,2000
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0001206
abstract: The ambiguity in the definition for the mass and width of relativistic resonances is discussed, in particular for the case of the Z-boson. This ambiguity can be removed by requiring that a resonance's width $\Gamma$ (defined by a Breit-Wigner lineshape) and lifetime $\tau$ (defined by the exponential law) always and exactly fulfill the relation $\Gamma = \hbar/\tau$. To justify this one needs relativistic Gamow vectors which in turn define the resonance's mass M_R as the real part of the square root $\rm{Re}\sqrt{s_R}$ of the S-matrix pole position s_R. For the Z-boson this means that $M_R \approx M_Z - 26{MeV}$ and $\Gamma_R \approx \Gamma_Z-1.2{MeV}$ where M_Z and $\Gamma_Z$ are the values reported in the particle data tables.

id: hep-ph/0001233
title: Particle Interferometry from 40 MeV to 40 TeV
authors: T. Csorgo
comments: 80 pages, 24 figures, 5 tables, addnl. misprints corrected, published version
journal: Heavy Ion Phys.15:1-80,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0001233
abstract: We review particle interferometry before 2000, including: basics and formalism of quantum-statistical correlations; model-independent analysis of short-range correlations; Coulomb wave-function corrections and the core/halo picture for $n$-particle Bose-Einstein correlations; graph rules to calculate these correlations even with partial coherence in the core; particle interferometry in $e^+e^-$ collisions including the Andersson-Hofmann model; invariant Buda-Lund particle interferometry; Buda-Lund, Bertsch-Pratt and Yano-Koonin-Podgoretskii parameterizations; Buda-Lund hydro model and its applications to (\pi/K)+p and Pb+Pb collisions at CERN SPS, as well as to low energy heavy ion collisions; binary source formalism and the related oscillations in the two-particle Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac correlation functions; experimental signs of expanding rings of fire and shells of fire in particle and heavy ion physics and their similarity to planetary nebulae in stellar astronomy; signal of partial restoration of the U_A(1) symmetry restoration in the two-pion correlation function; back-to-back correlations of bosons with in-medium mass modifications; and the analytic solution of the pion-laser model.

id: hep-th/0001019
title: Casimir energy of a dilute dielectric ball with uniform velocity of light at finite temperature
authors: I. Klich, J. Feinberg, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev. D62 (2000) 045017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0001019
abstract: The Casimir energy, free energy and Casimir force are evaluated, at arbitrary finite temperature, for a dilute dielectric ball with uniform velocity of light inside the ball and in the surrounding medium. In particular, we investigate the classical limit at high temperature. The Casimir force found is repulsive, as in previous calculations.

id: hep-th/0001067
title: Cubic root of Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Michel Rausch de Traubenberg
comments: 12 pages, typos corrected. To appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B477 (2000) 276-284
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0001067
abstract: We construct new relativistic linear differential equation in $d$ dimensions generalizing Dirac equation by employing the Clifford algebra of the cubic polynomial associated to Klein-Gordon operator multiplied by the mass parameter. Unlike the Dirac case where the spin content is unique and Lorentz covariance is manifest, here the spin as well as Lorentz covariance of the theory are related to the choice of representation of the Clifford algebra. One of the considered explicit matrix representations gives rise to anyon-like fields in $d=1+1$. Coupling to a U(1) gauge field is discussed and compared with Dirac theory.

id: hep-th/0001094
title: Bosonized supersymmetric quantum mechanics and supersymmetry of parabosons (parafermions)
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 12 pages. Talk given at the International Workshop ``Supersymmetry and Quantum Symmetries", JINR, Dubna, Russia, July 26-31,1999 (to appear in Proceedings)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0001094
abstract: We review the construction of minimally bosonized supersymmetric quantum mechanics and its relation to hidden supersymmetries in pure parabosonic (parafermionic) systems.

id: hep-th/0001220
title: Spin Observables and Path Integrals
authors: J.A.Lopez, J.Stephany
comments: 17 pages
journal: Proceedings of the VI International Wigner Symposium, Ed. Engin Arik, p.781-789, Bogazici Universitesi Vakfi, Istambul (2002).
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0001220
abstract: We discuss the formulation of spin observables associated to a non-relativistic spinning particles in terms of grassmanian differential operators. We use as configuration space variables for the pseudo-classical description of this system the positions $x$ and a Grassmanian vector $\vec\epsilon$. We consider an explicit discretization procedure to obtain the quantum amplitudes as path integrals in this superspace. We compute the quantum action necessary for this description including an explicit expression for the boundary terms. Finally we shown how for simple examples, the path integral may be performed in the semi-classical approximation, leading to the correct quantum propagator.

id: math-ph/0001001
title: Normal Ordering for Deformed Boson Operators and Operator-valued Deformed Stirling Numbers
authors: Jacob Katriel, Maurice Kibler
comments: 14 pages, Latex file
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 25 (1992) 2683-2691
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0001001
abstract: The normal ordering formulae for powers of the boson number operator $\hat{n}$ are extended to deformed bosons. It is found that for the `M-type' deformed bosons, which satisfy $a a^{\dagger} - q a^{\dagger} a = 1$, the extension involves a set of deformed Stirling numbers which replace the Stirling numbers occurring in the conventional case. On the other hand, the deformed Stirling numbers which have to be introduced in the case of the `P-type' deformed bosons, which satisfy $a a^{\dagger} - q a^{\dagger} a = q^{-\hat{n}}$, are found to depend on the operator $\hat{n}$. This distinction between the two types of deformed bosons is in harmony with earlier observations made in the context of a study of the extended Campbell-Baker-Hausdorff formula.

id: nucl-th/0001063
title: Soft Modes, Quantum Transport and Kinetic Entropy
authors: Yu. B. Ivanov, J. Knoll, H. Van Hees, D. N. Voskresensky
comments: Contribution to Proc. of Int. Workshop "Kadanoff-Baym Equations - Progress and Perspectives for Many-Body Physics" Rostock (Germany), September 20-24 1999, ed. M.Bonitz, World Scientific (2000)
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0001063
abstract: The effects of the propagation of particles which have a finite life-time and an according width in their mass spectrum are discussed in the context of transport descriptions. In the first part the coupling of soft photon modes to a source of charged particles is studied in a classical model which can be solved completely in analytical terms. The solution corresponds to a re-summation of certain field theory diagrams. The general properties of broad resonances in dense finite temperature systems are discussed at the example of the $\rho$-meson in hadronic matter. The second part addresses the problem of transport descriptions which also account for the damping width of the particles. The Kadanoff--Baym equation after gradient approximation together with the $\Phi$-derivable method of Baym provides a self-consistent and conserving scheme. Memory effects appearing in collision term diagrams of higher order are discussed. We derive a generalized expression for the nonequilibrium kinetic entropy flow, which includes corrections from fluctuations and mass-width effects. In special cases an $H$-theorem is proved. Memory effects in collision terms provide contributions to the kinetic entropy flow that in the Fermi-liquid case recover the famous bosonic type $T^3 \ln T$ correction to the specific heat of liquid Helium-3.

id: physics/0001024
title: Scattering of positronium by H, He, Ne, and Ar
authors: P. K. Biswas, Sadhan K. Adhikari
comments: 8 pages Latex with 4 postscript figures
journal: Chem.Phys.Lett. 317 (2000) 129-134
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0001024
abstract: The low-energy scattering of ortho positronium (Ps) by H, He, Ne, and Ar atoms has been investigated in the coupled-channel framework by using a recently proposed time-reversal-symmetric nonlocal electron-exchange model potential with a single parameter $C$. For H and He we use a three-Ps-state coupled-channel model and for Ar and Ne we use a static-exchange model. The sensitivity of the results is studied with respect to the parameter $C$. Present low-energy cross sections for He, Ne and Ar are in good agreement with experiment.

