id: quant-ph/0001047
title: Quantum Diffusions and Appell Systems
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas
comments: Latex 12 pages, no figures. Submitted to Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics. Special Issue of Proccedings of Fifth Inter. Symp. on Orthogonal Polynomaials, Special Functions and their Applications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0001047
abstract: Within the algebraic framework of Hopf algebras, random walks and associated diffusion equations (master equations) are constructed and studied for two basic operator algebras of Quantum Mechanics i.e the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra (hw) and its q-deformed version hw_q. This is done by means of functionals determined by the associated coherent state density operators. The ensuing master equations admit solutions given by hw and hw_q-valued Appell systems.

id: cs/0001013
title: Query Complexity: Worst-Case Quantum Versus Average-Case Classical
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: Withdrawn. The results in the paper only work for a certain subclass of Boolean functions, in which block sensitivity has properties similar to those of ordinary sensitivity. They don't work in general
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0001013
abstract: In this note we investigate the relationship between worst-case quantum query complexity and average-case classical query complexity. Specifically, we show that if a quantum computer can evaluate a total Boolean function f with bounded error using T queries in the worst case, then a deterministic classical computer can evaluate f using O(T^5) queries in the average case, under a uniform distribution of inputs. If f is monotone, we show furthermore that only O(T^3) queries are needed. Previously, Beals et al. (1998) showed that if a quantum computer can evaluate f with bounded error using T queries in the worst case, then a deterministic classical computer can evaluate f using O(T^6) queries in the worst case, or O(T^4) if f is monotone. The optimal bound is conjectured to be O(T^2), but improving on O(T^6) remains an open problem. Relating worst-case quantum complexity to average-case classical complexity may suggest new ways to reduce the polynomial gap in the ordinary worst-case versus worst-case setting.

