id: quant-ph/0002001
title: Optimal States for Bell inequality Violations using Quadrature Phase Homodyne Measurements
authors: W.J. Munro
comments: 6 pages, 5 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 59}, 4197 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002001
abstract: We identify what ideal correlated photon number states are to required to maximize the discrepancy between local realism and quantum mechanics when a quadrature homodyne phase measurement is used. Various Bell inequality tests are considered.

id: quant-ph/0002002
title: Upper Bound on the region of Separable States near the Maximally Mixed State
authors: P. Deuar, W. J. Munro, K. Nemoto
comments: 2 figures. accepted J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. (2000)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 2, 225 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002002
abstract: A lower bound on the amount of noise that must be added to a GHZ-like entangled state to make it separable (also called the random robustness) is found using the transposition condition. The bound is applicable to arbitrary numbers of subsystems, and dimensions of Hilbert space, and is shown to be exact for qubits. The new bound is compared to previous such bounds on this quantity, and found to be stronger in all cases. It implies that increasing the number of subsystems, rather than increasing their Hilbert space dimension is a more effective way of increasing entanglement. An explicit decomposition into an ensemble of separable states, when the state is not entangled,is given for the case of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0002003
title: (Noncanonical) field quantization by means of a single harmonic oscillator
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: revtex, 21 pages, 3 eps figures; the multi-oscillator part is generalized and the non-CCR algebra is appropriately modified; several details are worked out
journal: J.Phys.A33:8081-8104,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002003
abstract: The paper is an extension of quant-ph/9912102. The new framework is tested on the 2-photon spontaneous emission and blackbody radiation. The new effects are rather subtle. The probability of the 2-photon emission is shown to consist of a product of several terms: One which is identical to this from standard quantum optics and the remaining ones formally resembling detector inefficiencies (here arising from nontrivial vacuum structure). The blackbody distribution is indistinguishable from the Planck law for T<T_{critical} but for T>T_{critical} the maximum of the distribution gets lowered and shifts towards higher frequencies. T_{critical} is a parameter that, in principle, should be observable. No normal ordering of operators is needed and vacuum energy is nonzero but finite. Vacuum is represented by a subspace spanned by ground states of the oscillators and is not equivalent to the cyclic vector of the GNS construction. The non-CCR algebra is discussed in more detail.

id: quant-ph/0002004
title: All Optical Cellular Quantum Computer having Ancilla Bits for Operations in Each Cell
authors: Toshio Ohshima
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures RevTeX ;a single sentense is modified for the clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 062316 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002004
abstract: A quantum cellular network with a qubit and ancilla bits in each cell is proposed. The whole circuit works only with the help of external optical pulse sequences. In the operation, some of the ancilla bits are activated, and autonomous single- and two-qubit operations are made. In the sleep mode of a cell, the decoherence of the qubit is negligibly small. Since only two cells at most are active at once, the coherence can be maintained for a sufficiently long time for practical purposes. A device structure using a quantum dot array with possible operation and measurement schemes is also proposed.

id: quant-ph/0002005
title: Discrete Phase Measurements and the Bell inequality
authors: W.J. Munro
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., Volume 1, 655 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002005
abstract: We present a formulation of the Bell inequalities using simple correlated photon number states and phase measurements. Such tests generally require binning of the information, and this effect is closely examined. Our proposal opens up the opportunity for a new novel test of quantum mechanics versus local realism. Some insight in entanglement in such systems may be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0002006
title: Quantum computation by optically coupled steady atoms/quantum-dots inside a quantum electro-dynamic cavity
authors: Prabhakar Pradhan, M. P. Anantram, Kang L. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002006
abstract: We present a model for quantum computation using n steady 3-level atoms or 3-level quantum dots, kept inside a quantum electro-dynamics (QED) cavity. Our model allows one-qubit operations and the two-qubit controlled-NOT gate as required for universal quantum computation. The n quantum bits are described by two energy levels of each atom/dot. An external laser and n separate pairs of electrodes are used to address a single atom/dot independent of the others, via Stark effect. The third level of each system and an additional common-mode qubit (a cavity photon) are used for realizing the controlled-NOT operation between any pair of qubits. Laser frequency, cavity frequency, and energy levels are far off-resonance, and they are brought to resonance by modifying the energy-levels of a 3-level system using the Stark effect, only at the time of operation.

id: quant-ph/0002007
title: Coexistence of thermal noise and squeezing in the intensity fluctuations of small laser diodes
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Ortwin Hess
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, submitted to J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, added references and clarifications of the context
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 17, 1926 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002007
abstract: The intensity fluctuations of laser light are derived from photon number rate equations. In the limit of short times, the photon statistics for small laser devices such as typical semiconductor laser diodes show thermal characteristics even above threshold. In the limit of long time averages represented by the low frequency component of the noise, the same devices exhibit squeezing. It is shown that squeezing and thermal noise can coexist in the multi-mode output field of laser diodes. This result implies that the squeezed light generated by regularly pumped semiconductor laser diodes is qualitatively different from single mode squeezed light. In particular, no entanglement between photons can be generated using this type of collective multi-mode squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0002008
title: Global Derivation of the Fluctuation Determinant from Group Property of Time Evolution
authors: H. Kleinert, B. Van den Bossche
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper also at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002008
abstract: The Van Vleck-Pauli-Morette fluctuation determinant is derived from the global group property of the time evolution amplitude in a continuous formulation of path integrals.

id: quant-ph/0002009
title: Information - the Fundamental Notion of Quantum Theory
authors: Gesche Pospiech
comments: 10 pages, submitted to European Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002009
abstract: In this article a notion of information is presented which stresses the contextuality of quantum objects and their measurement. Mathematically this is reached by a quantification of the quantum mechanical surplus knowledge which has been introduced by Weizsacker. This new formulation gives insight into relation between single quantum objects and ensembles of quantum objects. The goal is to provide an explanatory concept for teaching purposes, the description of quantum processes and measurement with aid of information.

id: quant-ph/0002010
title: Inverse Time-Dependent Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. C. Lemm
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002010
abstract: Using a new Bayesian method for solving inverse quantum problems, potentials of quantum systems are reconstructed from coordinate measurements in non-stationary states. The approach is based on two basic inputs: 1. a likelihood model, providing the probabilistic description of the measurement process as given by the axioms of quantum mechanics, and 2. additional "a priori" information implemented in form of stochastic processes over potentials.

id: quant-ph/0002011
title: Time of arrival in the presence of interactions
authors: J. Leon, J. Julve, P. Pitanga, F. J. de Urries
comments: 20 pages including 5 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002011
abstract: We introduce a formalism for the calculation of the time of arrival t at a space point for particles traveling through interacting media. We develop a general formulation that employs quantum canonical transformations from the free to the interacting cases to construct t in the context of the Positive Operator Valued Measures. We then compute the probability distribution in the times of arrival at a point for particles that have undergone reflection, transmission or tunneling off finite potential barriers. For narrow Gaussian initial wave packets we obtain multimodal time distributions of the reflected packets and a combination of the Hartman effect with unexpected retardation in tunneling. We also employ explicitly our formalism to deal with arrivals in the interaction region for the step and linear potentials.

id: quant-ph/0002012
title: To the question of a nonrelativistic wave equation for a system of interacting particles
authors: M. V. Kuzmenko
comments: 17 pages, 3 PostScript figures, RevTeX. This article is a long version of our article in Phys. Rev. A 61, 014101 (2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002012
abstract: It is shown that the Schr\"{o}dinger nonrelativistic equation of a system of interacting particles is not a rigorously nonrelativistic equation since it is based on the implicit assumption of finiteness of the interaction propagation velocity. For a system of interacting particles, a fully nonrelativistic nonlinear system of integro-differential equations is proposed. In the case where the size of the system of particles is of the same order as the Compton wavelength associated with particles, certain essential differences are shown to exist as compared with traditional consequences of the nonrelativistic Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0002013
title: Perspectives on Nonlinearity in Quantum Theory
authors: Gerald A. Goldin
comments: Submitted Jan. 2000 for the Procs. of the International Symposium `Quantum Theory and Symmetries' (Goslar, 18-22 July 1999). Eds. H.-D. Doebner, V. K. Dobrev, J.-D. Hennig and W. Luecke. Singapore: World Scientific (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002013
abstract: An enlarged group G of nonlinear transformations, modeled on the general linear group GL(2,R), leads to a beautiful, apparently unremarked symmetry between the wave function's phase and the logarithm of its amplitude. Equations Doebner and I earlier proposed are embedded in a wider, natural family of nonlinear time-evolution equations, on which G acts as a gauge group (leaving physical observations invariant). There exist G-invariant quantities that reduce to the usual probability density and flux for linearizable quantum theories in a particular gauge.

id: quant-ph/0002014
title: Formation and life-time of memory domains in the dissipative quantum model of brain
authors: E. Alfinito, G. Vitiello
comments: LaTex file, 4 figures, 19 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. B14 (2000) 853-868; Erratum-ibid. B14 (2000) 1613
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002014
abstract: We show that in the dissipative quantum model of brain the time-dependence of the frequencies of the electrical dipole wave quanta leads to the dynamical organization of the memories in space (i.e. to their localization in more or less diffused regions of the brain) and in time (i.e. to their longer or shorter life-time). The life-time and the localization in domains of the memory states also depend on internal parameters and on the number of links that the brain establishes with the external world. These results agree with the physiological observations of the dynamic formation of neural circuitry which grows as brain develops and relates to external world.

id: quant-ph/0002015
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Quantum Phase Shift Caused by Spatial Confinement'" by Murray Peshkin
authors: B.E. Allman, A. Cimmino, A.G. Klein
comments: 2 pages, No Figures, 6 References
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 13, 101-103 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002015
abstract: We describe a force-free phase shift due only to temporal geometric boundary conditions placed on a neutron deBroglie wave packet.

id: quant-ph/0002016
title: Three-Qubit Gate Realization Using Single Quantum Particle
authors: Alexander R. Kessel, Vladimir L. Ermakov
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages, no figures; Submitted to "Pis'ma v Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz."
journal: JETP Lett. Vol. 71(7), pp. 307-309 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002016
abstract: Using virtual spin formalism it is shown that a quantum particle with eight energy levels can store three qubits. The formalism allows to realize a universal set of quantum gates. Feasible formalism implementation is suggested which uses nuclear spin-7/2 as a storage medium and radio frequency pulses as the gates. One pulse realization of all universal gates has been found, including three-qubit Toffoli gate.

id: quant-ph/0002017
title: Quantum Field Symbolic Analog Computation: Relativity Model
authors: A. C. Manoharan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002017
abstract: It is natural to consider a quantum system in the continuum limit of space-time configuration. Incorporating also, Einstein's special relativity, leads to the quantum theory of fields. Non-relativistic quantum mechanics and classical mechanics are special cases. By studying vacuum expectation values (Wightman functions W(n; z) where z denotes the set of n complex variables) of products of quantum field operators in a separable Hilbert space, one is led to computation of holomorphy domains for these functions over the space of several complex variables, C^n. Quantum fields were reconstructed from these functions by Wightman. Computer automation has been accomplished as deterministic exact analog computation (computation over "cells" in the continuum of C^n) for obtaining primitive extended tube domains of holomorphy. This is done in a one dimensional space plus one dimensional time model. By considering boundary related semi-algebraic sets, some analytic extensions of these domains are obtained by non-deterministic methods. The novel methods of computation raise interesting issues of computability and complexity. Moreover, the computation is independent of any particular form of Lagrangian or dynamics, and is uniform in n, qualifying for a universal quantum machine over C^infinity.

id: quant-ph/0002018
title: Stochastic quantization of the dynamics of interacting qubit systems
authors: Sergio De Filippo
comments: Only craziness I am ashamed about
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002018
abstract: Only craziness I am ashamed about.

id: quant-ph/0002019
title: Physical model of Dirac electron. Calculation of its mass at rest and own electric and magnetic intensities on its moment location
authors: Josiph Mladenov Rangelov
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002019
abstract: The physical model (PhsMdl) of the relativistic quantized Dirac's electron (DrEl) is proposed. The DrEl is regarded as a point-like (PntLk) elementary electric charge (ElmElcChrg), taking simultaneously part in following four disconnected different motions: a/ in Einstein's random trembling harmonic shudders as a result of momentum recoils (impulse kicks), forcing the DrEl's PntLk ElmElcChrg at its continuous emission and absorption of high energy stochastic virtual photons (StchVrtPhtns) by its PntLk ElmElcChrg ; b/ in Schrodinger's fermion vortical harmonic oscillations of DrEl's fine spread (FnSpr) ElmElcChrg, who minimizes the self-energy at a rest of is an electromagnetic self-action between its continuously moving FnSpr ElmElcChrg and proper magnetic dipole moment (MgnDplMmn) and the corresponding potential and vector-potential; All the relativistic dynamical properties of the DrEl are results of the participate of its FnSpr ElmElcChrg in the Schrodinger's fermion vortical harmonic oscillations. c/ in Furthian quantized stochastic boson circular harmonic oscillations as a result of the permanent electric or magnetic interaction of its well spread (WllSpr) ElmElcChrg or proper MgnDplMmn with the electric intensity (ElcInt) or the magnetic intensity (MgnInt) of the resultant quantized electromagnetic field (QntElcMgnFld) of all the StchVrtPhtns within the fluctuating vacuum (FlcVcm); All the quantized dualistic dynamical properties of the SchEl are results of the participate of its WllSpr ElmElcChrg in the Furth's stochastic boson circular harmonic oscillations. d/ in Nweton's classical motion along a clear-cut smooth thin line as a result of some interaction of its over spread (OvrSpr) ElmElcChrg, MgnDplMmn or bare mass with the intensities of some classical fields.

id: quant-ph/0002020
title: Quantum Interleaver: Quantum Error Correction for Burst Error
authors: Shiro Kawabata
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures (RevTeX)
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 69 (2000) 3540
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002020
abstract: The concept of quantum interleaver and a simple method of quantum burst-error correction is proposed. By using the quantum interleaver, any quantum burst-errors that have occurred spread over the interleaved code word, so that we can construct good quantum burst-error correcting codes without increasing the redundancy of the code. We also discuss the general method of constructing the quantum circuit for the quantum interleaver and the quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0002021
title: On balance of information in bipartite quantum communication systems: entanglement-energy analogy
authors: Ryszard Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 8 pages, Revtex, extended version including discussion on interpretation problems in particular objectivity of quantum information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002021
abstract: We adopt the view according to which information is the primary physical entity that posseses objective meaning. Basing on two postulates that (i) entanglement is a form of quantum information corresponding to internal energy (ii) sending qubits corresponds to work, we show that in the closed bipartite quantum communication systems the information is conserved. We also discuss entanglement-energy analogy in context of the Gibbs-Hemholtz-like equation connecting the entanglement of formation, distillable entanglement and bound entanglement. Then we show that in the deterministic protocols of distillation the information is conserved. We also discuss the objectivity of quantum information in context of information interpretation of quantum states and alghoritmic complexity.

id: quant-ph/0002022
title: Superluminal effects for quantum tunneling through two successive barriers
authors: Vladislav S.Olkhovsky, Erasmo Recami, Giovanni Salesi
comments: plain LaTeX file (8 pages), including 1 figure (in LaTeX). Replaced with improvements in some intermediary equations
journal: Europhysics Letters, 57 2002 879-884
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002022
abstract: We study the phenomenon of one-dimensional non-resonant tunnelling through two successive potential barriers, separated by an intermediate free region R, by analyzing the relevant solutions to the Schroedinger equation. We find that the total traversal time is INDEPENDENT not only of the barrier widths (the so-called "Hartman effect"), but also of the R-width: so that the effective velocity in the region R, between the two barriers, can be regarded as infinite. This agrees with the results known from the corresponding waveguide experiments, which simulated the tunnelling experiment herein considered because of the formal identity between the Schroedinger and the Helmholtz equation [PACS numbers: 73.40.Gk; 03.65.-w; 03.30.+p; 41.20.Jb; 84.40.Az].

id: quant-ph/0002023
title: Tailoring of vibrational state populations with light-induced potentials in molecules
authors: M. Rodriguez, K.-A. Suominen, B. M. Garraway
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, 5 eps figures embedded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 53413 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002023
abstract: We propose a method for achieving highly efficient transfer between the vibrational states in a diatomic molecule. The process is mediated by strong laser pulses and can be understood in terms of light-induced potentials. In addition to describing a specific molecular system, our results show how, in general, one can manipulate the populations of the different quantum states in double well systems.

id: quant-ph/0002024
title: Entanglement and quantum computation with ions in thermal motion
authors: Anders Sorensen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 11 pages, including 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A. Added a discussion of the gate time
journal: PRA 62, 022311 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002024
abstract: With bichromatic fields it is possible to deterministically produce entangled states of trapped ions. In this paper we present a unified analysis of this process for both weak and strong fields, for slow and fast gates. Simple expressions for the fidelity of creating maximally entangled states of two or an arbitrary number of ions under non-ideal conditions are derived and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0002025
title: First experimental test of Bell inequalities performed using a non-maximally entangled state
authors: M.Genovese, G. Brida, C. Novero, E. Predazzi
comments: 
journal: Pramana 56:153-159,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002025
abstract: We report on the realisation of a new test of Bell inequalities using the superposition of type I parametric down conversion produced in two different non-linear crystals pumped by the same laser, but with different polarisation. The produced state is non-maximally entangled. We discuss the advantages and the possible developments of this configuration.

id: quant-ph/0002026
title: A separability criterion for density operators
authors: Oliver Rudolph
comments: REVTeX, 5 pages
journal: J.Phys.A: Math.Gen. 33 (2000), 3951-3955
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002026
abstract: We give a necessary and sufficient condition for a mixed quantum mechanical state to be separable. The criterion is formulated as a boundedness condition in terms of the greatest cross norm on the tensor product of trace class operators.

id: quant-ph/0002027
title: Preparation information and optimal decompositions for mixed quantum states
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 13 pages, latex, 2 postscript figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47, 2265-2276 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002027
abstract: Consider a joint quantum state of a system and its environment. A measurement on the environment induces a decomposition of the system state. Using algorithmic information theory, we define the preparation information of a pure or mixed state in a given decomposition. We then define an optimal decomposition as a decomposition for which the average preparation information is minimal. The average preparation information for an optimal decomposition characterizes the system-environment correlations. We discuss properties and applications of the concepts introduced above and give several examples.

id: quant-ph/0002028
title: Activating bound entanglement in multi-particle systems
authors: W. D¨¹r, J. I. Cirac
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 022302 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002028
abstract: We analyze the existence of activable bound entangled states in multi-particle systems. We first give a series of examples which illustrate some different ways in which bound entangled states can be activated by letting some of the parties to share maximally entangled states. Then, we derive necessary conditions for a state to be distillable as well as to be activable. These conditions turn out to be also sufficient for a certain family of multi-qubit states. We use these results to explicitely to construct states displaying novel properties related to bound entanglement and its activation.

id: quant-ph/0002029
title: Quantum entanglement using trapped atomic spins
authors: L. You, M. S. Chapman
comments: minor revisions with an updated discussion on adibatic tranportation of trapped qubit, 5 pages, 3 figs, resubmitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002029
abstract: We propose an implementation for quantum logic and computing using trapped atomic spins of two different species, interacting via direct magnetic spin-spin interaction. In this scheme, the spins (electronic or nuclear) of distantly spaced trapped neutral atoms serve as the qubit arrays for quantum information processing and storage, and the controlled interaction between two spins, as required for universal quantum computing, is implemented in a three step process that involves state swapping with a movable auxiliary spin.

id: quant-ph/0002030
title: On Fine's resolution of the EPR-Bell problem
authors: Laszlo E. Szabo
comments: LaTeX, 9 pages, 3 figures, Computer demo: this http URL The Theorem in Point 15 is removed, due to a crucial error in decomposition (18). Corrections: quant-ph/0012042
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002030
abstract: In the real spin-correlation experiments the detection/emission inefficiency is usually ascribed to independent random detection errors, and treated by the "enhancement hypothesis". In Fine's "prism model" the detection inefficiency is an effect not only of the random errors in the analyzer + detector equipment, but is also the manifestation of a pre-settled (hidden) property of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0002031
title: Experimental Test of Relativistic Quantum State Collapse with Moving Reference Frames
authors: H. Zbinden, J. Brendel, W. Tittel, N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages + 2 ps figures
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Gen., 34, 7103-7109, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002031
abstract: An experimental test of relativistic wave-packet collapse is presented. The tested model assumes that the collapse takes place in the reference frame determined by the massive measuring detectors. Entangled photons are measured at 10 km distance within a time interval of less than 5 ps. The two apparatuses are in relative motion so that both detectors, each in its own inertial reference frame, are first to perform the measurement. The data always reproduces the quantum correlations and thus rule out a class of collapse models. The results also set a lower bound on the "speed of quantum information" to 0.66 x 10^7 and 1.5 x 10^4 times the speed of light in the Geneva and the background radiation reference frames, respectively. The very difficult and deep question of where the collapse takes place - if it takes place at all - is considered in a concrete experimental context.

id: quant-ph/0002032
title: Teleportation and Secret Sharing with Pure Entangled States
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: Latex, 13 pages, submitted to PRA. One sub section already appeared in the archive: quant-ph /9907010
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 012308 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002032
abstract: We present two optimal methods of teleporting an unknown qubit using any pure entangled state. We also discuss how such methods can also have succesful application in quantum secret sharing with pure multipartite entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0002033
title: Multi-valued Logic Gates for Quantum Computation
authors: Ashok Muthukrishnan, C. R. Stroud, Jr
comments: Revised version; 8 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002033
abstract: We develop a multi-valued logic for quantum computing for use in multi-level quantum systems, and discuss the practical advantages of this approach for scaling up a quantum computer. Generalizing the methods of binary quantum logic, we establish that arbitrary unitary operations on any number of d-level systems (d > 2) can be decomposed into logic gates that operate on only two systems at a time. We show that such multi-valued logic gates are experimentally feasible in the context of the linear ion trap scheme for quantum computing. By using d levels in each ion in this scheme, we reduce the number of ions needed for a computation by a factor of log d.

id: quant-ph/0002034
title: A model for ensemble NMR quantum computer using antiferromagnetic structure
authors: A. A. Kokin
comments: 18 pages, using epsfig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002034
abstract: The one-dimensional homonuclear periodic array of nuclear spins I = 1/2, owing to hyperfine interaction of nuclear spins with electronic magnetic moments in antiferromagnetic structure, is considered. The neighbor nuclear spins in such array are opposite oriented and have resonant frequencies determined by hyperfine interaction constant, applied magnetic field value and interaction with the left and right nuclear neighbor spins. The resonant frequencies difference of nuclear spins, when the neighbor spins have different and the same states, is used to control the spin dynamics by means of selective resonant RF-pulses both for single nuclear spins and for ensemble of nuclear spins with the same resonant frequency. A model for the NMR quantum computer of cellular-automata type based on an one-dimensional homonuclear periodic array of spins is proposed. This model may be generalized to a large ensemble of parallel working one-dimensional arrays and to two-dimensional and three-dimensional structures.

id: quant-ph/0002035
title: Controlling Decoherence in Bose-Einstein Condensation by Light Scattering far off Resonance
authors: C.P.Sun
comments: 4 pages,3 figures,Revtex,Inst.Theor.Phys,CAS,China, suncp@itp.ac.cn;this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002035
abstract: It is shown that, through a super-radiant Rayleigh scattering, a strong far off-resonant pump laser applied to a Bose-Einstein condensates(BEC) can induce a non-demolition coupling of the many-mode quantized vacuum field to the BEC. This effective interaction will force the total system of the BEC plus the light field to evolve from a factorized initial state to an ideal entangled state and thus result in the quantum decoherence in the BEC. Since the effective coupling coefficients are mainly determined by the Rabi frequency of the pump laser, the quantum decoherence process can be controlled by adjusting the intensity of the pump laser. To study the physical influence of decoherence on the BEC, we investigate how the coherent tunneling of BEC in a well-separated tight double wall is suppressed by the effectively-entangled vacuum modes.

id: quant-ph/0002036
title: Entanglement measures and the Hilbert-Schmidt distance
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Lett. A 268 (2000) 158
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002036
abstract: In order to construct a measure of entanglement on the basis of a ``distance'' between two states, it is one of desirable properties that the ``distance'' is nonincreasing under every completely positive trace preserving map. Contrary to a recent claim, this letter shows that the Hilbert-Schmidt distance does not have this property.

id: quant-ph/0002037
title: Quantum Algorithms and the Genetic Code
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: Revtex, 11 pages, 3 figures. Invited lectures presented at the Winter Institute on ``Foundations of Quantum Theory and Quantum Optics'', 1-13 January 2000, S.N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Calcutta, India. To appear in the proceedings. (v2) Corrected typo in Fig.2 caption. (v3) Published version. Corrected typos and added some comments about enzymes
journal: Pramana 56 (2001) 365
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Genomics (q-bio.GN)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002037
abstract: Replication of DNA and synthesis of proteins are studied from the view-point of quantum database search. Identification of a base-pairing with a quantum query gives a natural (and first ever) explanation of why living organisms have 4 nucleotide bases and 20 amino acids. It is amazing that these numbers arise as solutions to an optimisation problem. Components of the DNA structure which implement Grover's algorithm are identified, and a physical scenario is presented for the execution of the quantum algorithm. It is proposed that enzymes play a crucial role in maintaining quantum coherence of the process. Experimental tests that can verify this scenario are pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0002038
title: Spectroscopic studies in open quantum systems
authors: I. Rotter, E. Persson, K. Pichugin, P. Seba
comments: The six jpg files are not included in the tex-file
journal: Phys.Rev.E62:450-461,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002038
abstract: The spectroscopic properties of an open quantum system are determined by the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of an effective Hamiltonian H consisting of the Hamiltonian H_0 of the corresponding closed system and a non-Hermitian correction term W arising from the interaction via the continuum of decay channels. The eigenvalues E_R of H are complex. They are the poles of the S-matrix and provide both the energies and widths of the states. We illustrate the interplay between Re(H) and Im(H) by means of the different interference phenomena between two neighboured resonance states. Level repulsion along the real axis appears if the interaction is caused mainly by Re(H) while a bifurcation of the widths appears if the interaction occurs mainly due to Im(H). We then calculate the poles of the S-matrix and the corresponding wavefunctions for a rectangular microwave resonator with a scatter as a function of the area of the resonator as well as of the degree of opening to a guide. The calculations are performed by using the method of exterior complex scaling. Re(W) and Im(W) cause changes in the structure of the wavefunctions which are permanent, as a rule. At full opening to the lead, short-lived collective states are formed together with long-lived trapped states. The wavefunctions of the short-lived states at full opening to the lead are very different from those at small opening. The resonance picture obtained from the microwave resonator shows all the characteristic features known from the study of many-body systems in spite of the absence of two-body forces. The poles of the S-matrix determine the conductance of the resonator. Effects arising from the interplay between resonance trapping and level repulsion along the real axis are not involved in the statistical theory.

id: quant-ph/0002039
title: Methodology for quantum logic gate constructions
authors: Xinlan Zhou, Debbie W. Leung, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 17 pages, mypsfig2, revtex. Revised with a different title, a new appendix for clarifying fault-tolerant preparation of quantum states, and various minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 052316 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002039
abstract: We present a general method to construct fault-tolerant quantum logic gates with a simple primitive, which is an analog of quantum teleportation. The technique extends previous results based on traditional quantum teleportation (Gottesman and Chuang, Nature {\bf 402}, 390, 1999) and leads to straightforward and systematic construction of many fault-tolerant encoded operations, including the $\pi/8$ and Toffoli gates. The technique can also be applied to the construction of remote quantum operations that cannot be directly performed.

id: quant-ph/0002040
title: Heating of trapped ions from the quantum ground state
authors: Q. A. Turchette, D. Kielpinski, B. E. King, D. Leibfried, D. M. Meekhof, C. J. Myatt, M. A. Rowe, C. A. Sackett, C. S. Wood, W. M. Itano, C. Monroe, D. J. Wineland
comments: With minor changes. 24 pages, including 7 figures. Submitted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002040
abstract: We have investigated motional heating of laser-cooled 9Be+ ions held in radio-frequency (Paul) traps. We have measured heating rates in a variety of traps with different geometries, electrode materials, and characteristic sizes. The results show that heating is due to electric-field noise from the trap electrodes which exerts a stochastic fluctuating force on the ion. The scaling of the heating rate with trap size is much stronger than that expected from a spatially uniform noise source on the electrodes (such as Johnson noise from external circuits), indicating that a microscopic uncorrelated noise source on the electrodes (such as fluctuating patch-potential fields) is a more likely candidate for the source of heating.

id: quant-ph/0002041
title: Symplectic areas, quantization, and dynamics in electromagnetic fields
authors: M. V. Karasev, T. A. Osborn
comments: 39 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43:756-788, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002041
abstract: A gauge invariant quantization in a closed integral form is developed over a linear phase space endowed with an inhomogeneous Faraday electromagnetic tensor. An analog of the Groenewold product formula (corresponding to Weyl ordering) is obtained via a membrane magnetic area, and extended to the product of N symbols. The problem of ordering in quantization is related to different configurations of membranes: a choice of configuration determines a phase factor that fixes the ordering and controls a symplectic groupoid structure on the secondary phase space. A gauge invariant solution of the quantum evolution problem for a charged particle in an electromagnetic field is represented in an exact continual form and in the semiclassical approximation via the area of dynamical membranes.

id: quant-ph/0002042
title: On the Non-Orthonormality of Lippmann-Schwinger-Low States
authors: V. J. Menon, B. K. Patra
comments: 9 pages (modified version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002042
abstract: It is pointed out that for a general short-ranged potential the Lippmann-Schwinger-Low scattering state $|\psi^L_k>$ does not strictly satisfy the Schrodinger eigen equation, and the pair $|\psi^L_n>$, $|\psi^L_k>$ is mutually nonorthogonal if $E_n=E_k$. For this purpose, we carefully use an infinitesimal adiabatic parameter $\epsilon$, a nonlinear relation among transition amplitudes, and a separable interaction as illustration.

id: quant-ph/0002043
title: Phase properties of a new nonlinear coherent state
authors: B.Roy, P.Roy
comments: 8 eps figures. to appear in J.Opt B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002043
abstract: We study phase properties of a displacement operator type nonlinear coherent state. In particular we evaluate the Pegg-Barnett phase distribution and compare it with phase distributions associated with the Husimi Q function and the Wigner function. We also study number- phase squeezing of this state.

id: quant-ph/0002044
title: Security of classical noise-based cryptography
authors: Akihisa Tomita, Osamu Hirota
comments: 6 Pages, 6 figures, partly presented at the NEC Workshop on Quantum Cryptography
journal: J. Opt. B2, 705 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002044
abstract: We examine security of a protocol on cryptographic key distribution via classical noise proposed by Yuen and Kim (Phys. Lett. A 241 135 (1998)). Theoretical and experimental analysis in terms of the secure key distribution rate shows that secure key distribution is possible even if the eavesdropper could receive more photons than the legitimate receiver, as long as the signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) of the receiver is better than -9dB of the eavesdropper's SNR. Secure key distribution was demonstrated at the maximum rate of 0.04 bit per sender's bit and transmission rate of 2 Mb/s in the experiment employing conventional fiber optics. The present protocol has advantages of the efficient key distribution and the simple implementation over other quantum key distribution protocols. However, careful design and management are necessary to keep the security of the crypto-system.

id: quant-ph/0002045
title: Nonlocal properties of two-qubit gates and mixed states and optimization of quantum computations
authors: Yuriy Makhlin
comments: 4 pages; minor changes; relation of our invariants and those of quant-ph/9712040 clarified
journal: Quant. Info. Proc. 1, 243-252 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002045
abstract: Entanglement of two parts of a quantum system is a non-local property unaffected by local manipulations of these parts. It is described by quantities invariant under local unitary transformations. Here we present, for a system of two qubits, a set of invariants which provides a complete description of non-local properties. The set contains 18 real polynomials of the entries of the density matrix. We prove that one of two mixed states can be transformed into the other by single-bit operations if and only if these states have equal values of all 18 invariants. Corresponding local operations can be found efficiently. Without any of these 18 invariants the set is incomplete. Similarly, non-local, entangling properties of two-qubit unitary gates are invariant under single-bit operations. We present a complete set of 3 real polynomial invariants of unitary gates. Our results are useful for optimization of quantum computations since they provide an effective tool to verify if and how a given two-qubit operation can be performed using exactly one elementary two-qubit gate, implemented by a basic physical manipulation (and arbitrarily many single-bit gates).

id: quant-ph/0002046
title: The Persistence of Memory: Surreal Trajectories in Bohm's Theory
authors: Jeffrey A. Barrett
comments: 35 pages with 5 figures. This is an extended version of the talk that I gave at the UC Irvine Laguna Beach Physics Conference on 5 February 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002046
abstract: In this paper I describe the history of the surreal trajectories problem and argue that in fact it is not a problem for Bohm's theory. More specifically, I argue that one can take the particle trajectories predicted by Bohm's theory to be the actual trajectories that particles follow and that there is no reason to suppose that good particle detectors are somehow fooled in the context of the surreal trajectories experiments. Rather than showing that Bohm's theory predicts the wrong particle trajectories or that it somehow prevents one from making reliable measurements, such experiments ultimately reveal the special role played by position and the fundamental incompatibility between Bohm's theory and relativity.

id: quant-ph/0002047
title: Continuous pumping and control of mesoscopic superposition state in a lossy QED cavity
authors: M. C. de Oliveira, M. H. Y. Moussa, S. S. Mizrahi
comments: 15 pages, 6 PostScript figures, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 61, 063809 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002047
abstract: Here we consider the continuous pumping of a dissipative QED cavity and derive the time-dependent density operator of the cavity field prepared initially as a superposition of mesoscopic coherent states. The control of the coherence of this superposition is analyzed considering the injection of a beam of two-level Rydberg atoms through the cavity. Our treatment is compared to other approaches.

id: quant-ph/0002048
title: The thermodynamic cost of reliability and low temperatures: Tightening Landauer's principle and the Second Law
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan, Robert Zeier, Rubino Geiss, Thomas Beth
comments: 18 pages, Revtex
journal: Int. Journ. Th. Phys. 39(12):2217-2753, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002048
abstract: Landauer's principle states that the erasure of one bit of information requires the free energy kT ln 2. We argue that the reliability of the bit erasure process is bounded by the accuracy inherent in the statistical state of the energy source (`the resources') driving the process. We develop a general framework describing the `thermodynamic worth' of the resources with respect to reliable bit erasure or good cooling. This worth turns out to be given by the distinguishability of the resource's state from its equilibrium state in the sense of a statistical inference problem. Accordingly, Kullback-Leibler relative information is a decisive quantity for the `worth' of the resource's state. Due to the asymmetry of relative information, the reliability of the erasure process is bounded rather by the relative information of the equilibrium state wit respect to the actual state than by the relative information of the actual state with respect to the equilibrium state (which is the free energy up to constants).

id: quant-ph/0002049
title: Lyapunov exponent in quantum mechanics. A phase-space approach
authors: V. I. Man'ko, R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 30 pages Latex
journal: Physica D145 (2000) 330-348
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002049
abstract: Using the symplectic tomography map, both for the probability distributions in classical phase space and for the Wigner functions of its quantum counterpart, we discuss a notion of Lyapunov exponent for quantum dynamics. Because the marginal distributions, obtained by the tomography map, are always well defined probabilities, the correspondence between classical and quantum notions is very clear. Then we also obtain the corresponding expressions in Hilbert space. Some examples are worked out. Classical and quantum exponents are seen to coincide for local and non-local time-dependent quadratic potentials. For non-quadratic potentials classical and quantum exponents are different and some insight is obtained on the taming effect of quantum mechanics on classical chaos. A detailed analysis is made for the standard map. Providing an unambiguous extension of the notion of Lyapunov exponent to quantum mechnics, the method that is developed is also computationally efficient in obtaining analytical results for the Lyapunov exponent, both classical and quantum.

id: quant-ph/0002050
title: Coherent states sometimes look like squeezed states, and visa versa: The Paul trap
authors: Michael Martin Nieto, D. Rodney Truax
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages. To be published in the New Journal of Physics focus issue on Microlasers and Cavity QED. Revised version significantly expanded for publication. (In honor of the late Dan Walls.)
journal: New J. Phys. 2 (2000) 18.1-18.9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002050
abstract: Using the Paul Trap as a model, we point out that the same wave functions can be variously coherent or squeezed states, depending upon the system they are applied to.

id: quant-ph/0002051
title: Beyond single-photon localization at the edge of a Photonic Band Gap
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 61, 053812 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002051
abstract: We study spontaneous emission in an atomic ladder system, with both transitions coupled near-resonantly to the edge of a photonic band gap continuum. The problem is solved through a recently developed technique and leads to the formation of a ``two-photon+atom'' bound state with fractional population trapping in both upper states. In the long-time limit, the atom can be found excited in a superposition of the upper states and a ``direct'' two-photon process coexists with the stepwise one. The sensitivity of the effect to the particular form of the density of states is also explored.

id: quant-ph/0002052
title: Robustness of Wave Functions of Interacting Many Bosons in a Leaky Box
authors: Akira Shimizu, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: Minor typographical errors, which are summarized in the Erratum (which has been submitted to PRL), have been fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 688
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002052
abstract: We study the robustness, against the leakage of bosons, of wave functions of interacting many bosons confined in a finite box, by deriving and analyzing a general equation of motion for the reduced density operator. We identify a robust wave function that remains a pure state, whereas other wave functions, such as the Bogoliubov's ground state and the ground state with a fixed number of bosons, evolve into mixed states. Although these states all have the off-diagonal long-range order, and almost the same energy densities, we argue that only the robust state is realized as a macroscopic quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0002053
title: Cloning and quantum computation
authors: Ernesto F. Galvao, Lucien Hardy
comments: LaTex, 11 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 022301 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002053
abstract: We discuss how quantum information distribution can improve the performance of some quantum computation tasks. This distribution can be naturally implemented with different types of quantum cloning procedures. We give two examples of tasks for which cloning provides some enhancement in performance, and briefly discuss possible extensions of the idea.

id: quant-ph/0002054
title: Towards the elusive Efimov state of the ^4He_3 molecule through a new atom-optical state-selection technique
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Thorsten Koehler
comments: 4 pages REVTEX + 4 figures. Phys. Rev. Lett. (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002054
abstract: Excited states and excitation energies of weakly bound systems, e.g. atomic few-body systems and clusters, are difficult to study experimentally. For this purpose we propose a new and very general atom-optical method which is based on inelastic diffraction from transmission gratings. The technique is applicable to the recently found helium trimer molecule ^4He_3, allowing for the first time an investigation of the possible existence of an excited trimer state and determination of its excitation energy. This would be of fundamental importance for the famous Efimov effect.

id: quant-ph/0002055
title: Classical Topology and Quantum States
authors: A.P. Balachandran
comments: 19 pages, Latex. Talk presented at the Winter Institute on Foundations of Quantum Theory and Quantum Optics,S.N.Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences,Calcutta,January 1-13,2000. A hep-th number in a reference has been corrected
journal: Pramana 56:223-237,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002055
abstract: Any two infinite-dimensional (separable) Hilbert spaces are unitarily isomorphic. The sets of all their self-adjoint operators are also therefore unitarily equivalent. Thus if all self-adjoint operators can be observed, and if there is no further major axiom in quantum physics than those formulated for example in Dirac's `Quantum Mechanics', then a quantum physicist would not be able to tell a torus from a hole in the ground. We argue that there are indeed such axioms involving observables with smooth time evolution: they contain commutative subalgebras from which the spatial slice of spacetime with its topology (and with further refinements of the axiom, its $C^K-$ and $C^\infty-$ structures) can be reconstructed using Gel'fand - Naimark theory and its extensions. Classical topology is an attribute of only certain quantum observables for these axioms, the spatial slice emergent from quantum physics getting progressively less differentiable with increasingly higher excitations of energy and eventually altogether ceasing to exist. After formulating these axioms, we apply them to show the possibility of topology change and to discuss quantized fuzzy topologies. Fundamental issues concerning the role of time in quantum physics are also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0002056
title: Some properties of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the cubic oscillator with imaginary coupling constant
authors: G. Andrei Mezincescu
comments: 6 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A33:4911-4916,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002056
abstract: Comparison between the exact value of the spectral zeta function, $Z_{H}(1)=5^{-6/5}[3-2\cos(\pi/5)]\Gamma^2(1/5)/\Gamma(3/5)$, and the results of numeric and WKB calculations supports the conjecture by Bessis that all the eigenvalues of this PT-invariant hamiltonian are real. For one-dimensional Schr\"odinger operators with complex potentials having a monotonic imaginary part, the eigenfunctions (and the imaginary parts of their logarithmic derivatives) have no real zeros.

id: quant-ph/0002057
title: On the Complexity of Quantum ACC
authors: F. Green, S. Homer, C. Pollett
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures This version will appear in the July 2000 Computational Complexity conference. Section 4 has been significantly revised and many typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002057
abstract: For any $q > 1$, let $\MOD_q$ be a quantum gate that determines if the number of 1's in the input is divisible by $q$. We show that for any $q,t > 1$, $\MOD_q$ is equivalent to $\MOD_t$ (up to constant depth). Based on the case $q=2$, Moore \cite{moore99} has shown that quantum analogs of AC$^{(0)}$, ACC$[q]$, and ACC, denoted QAC$^{(0)}_{wf}$, QACC$[2]$, QACC respectively, define the same class of operators, leaving $q > 2$ as an open question. Our result resolves this question, proving that QAC$^{(0)}_{wf} =$ QACC$[q] = $ QACC for all $q$. We also develop techniques for proving upper bounds for QACC in terms of related language classes. We define classes of languages EQACC, NQACC and BQACC$_{\rats}$. We define a notion $\log$-planar QACC operators and show the appropriately restricted versions of EQACC and NQACC are contained in P/poly. We also define a notion of $\log$-gate restricted QACC operators and show the appropriately restricted versions of EQACC and NQACC are contained in TC$^{(0)}$. To do this last proof, we show that TC$^{(0)}$ can perform iterated addition and multiplication in certain field extensions. We also introduce the notion of a polynomial-size tensor graph and show that families of such graphs can encode the amplitudes resulting from apply an arbitrary QACC operator to an initial state.

id: quant-ph/0002058
title: An Unentangled Gleason's Theorem
authors: Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002058
abstract: The purpose of this note is to give a generalization of Gleason's theorem inspired by recent work in quantum information theory on "nonlocality without entanglement." For multipartite quantum systems, each of dimension three or greater, the only nonnegative frame functions over the set of unentangled states are those given by the standard Born probability rule. However, if one system is of dimension 2 this is not necessarily the case.

id: quant-ph/0002059
title: Phase measurements at the theoretical limit
authors: D. W. Berry, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, updated with better feedback scheme
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 013813 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002059
abstract: It is well known that the result of any phase measurement on an optical mode made using linear optics has an introduced uncertainty in addition to the intrinsic quantum phase uncertainty of the state of the mode. The best previously published technique [H. M. Wiseman and R.B. Killip, Phys. Rev. A 57, 2169 (1998)] is an adaptive technique that introduces a phase variance that scales as n^{-1.5}, where n is the mean photon number of the state. This is far above the minimum intrinsic quantum phase variance of the state, which scales as n^{-2}. It has been shown that a lower limit to the phase variance that is introduced scales as ln(n)/n^2. Here we introduce an adaptive technique that attains this theoretical lower limit.

id: quant-ph/0002060
title: On The Significance of Bell's Locality Condition
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 10 pages, no figure, to appear in Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie
journal: Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie 27-1, 101(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002060
abstract: Reviewing the general representation of a stochastic local hidden variables theory in the context of an ideal Bohm's version of the EPR experiment, we show explicitly that the violation of Bell's locality condition is due to the assumption of ``outcome independence'' at the hidden variables level. Also, we show that if we introduce determinism, the assumption of outcome independence will be allowed.

id: quant-ph/0002061
title: Temperature dependence of the Casimir effect between metallic mirrors
authors: Cyriaque Genet, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, uses RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 012110 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002061
abstract: We calculate the Casimir force and free energy for plane metallic mirrors at non-zero temperature. Numerical evaluations are given with temperature and conductivity effects treated simultaneously. The results are compared with the approximation where both effects are treated independently and the corrections simply multiplied. The deviation between the exact and approximated results takes the form of a temperature dependent function for which an analytical expression is given. The knowledge of this function allows simple and accurate estimations at the % level.

id: quant-ph/0002062
title: On the weak-coupling limit and complete positivity
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 11 pages, plain-TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002062
abstract: We consider two non-interacting systems embedded in a heat bath. If they remain dynamically independent, physical inconsistencies are avoided only if the single-system reduced dynamics is completely positive also beyond the weak-coupling limit.

id: quant-ph/0002063
title: Information-Theoretic Analyses of Two-Level Quantum Systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: This paper is being withdrawn, as it has been superseded by quant-ph/0006009, "Quantum State Estimation Using Non-separable Measurements". The successor paper contains several additional analyses and figures, and corrects the previously reported "anomalous" Gill-Massar trace result (Fig. 1) for N = 7, so now the values 2 N - 1 for the pure state limits of these traces are obtained for all the studied cases, N = 2,...,7, of N copies of the two-level quantum systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002063
abstract: This paper has been superseded by quant-ph/0006009, "Quantum State Estimation Using Non-separable Measurements".

id: quant-ph/0002064
title: Robust unravelings for resonance fluorescence
authors: H.M. Wiseman, Zoe Brady
comments: 12 pages including 5 .eps figures, plus one .jpg figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002064
abstract: Monitoring the fluorescent radiation of an atom unravels the master equation evolution by collapsing the atomic state into a pure state which evolves stochastically. A robust unraveling is one that gives pure states that, on average, are relatively unaffected by the master equation evolution (which applies once the monitoring ceases). The ensemble of pure states arising from the maximally robust unraveling has been suggested to be the most natural way of representing the system [H.M. Wiseman and J.A. Vaccaro, Phys. Lett. A {\bf 250}, 241 (1998)]. We find that the maximally robust unraveling of a resonantly driven atom requires an adaptive interferometric measurement proposed by Wiseman and Toombes [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 60}, 2474 (1999)]. The resultant ensemble consists of just two pure states which, in the high driving limit, are close to the eigenstates of the driving Hamiltonian $\Omega\sigma_{x}/2$. This ensemble is the closest thing to a classical limit for a strongly driven atom. We also find that it is possible to reasonably approximate this ensemble using just homodyne detection, an example of a continuous Markovian unraveling. This has implications for other systems, for which it may be necessary in practice to consider only continuous Markovian unravelings.

id: quant-ph/0002065
title: Unitary relation between a harmonic oscillator of time-dependent frequency and a simple harmonic oscillator with and without an inverse-square potential
authors: Dae-Yup Song
comments: Phys. Rev. A (Brief Report), in press
journal: Physical Review A 62 (2000) 014103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002065
abstract: The unitary operator which transforms a harmonic oscillator system of time-dependent frequency into that of a simple harmonic oscillator of different time-scale is found, with and without an inverse-square potential. It is shown that for both cases, this operator can be used in finding complete sets of wave functions of a generalized harmonic oscillator system from the well-known sets of the simple harmonic oscillator. Exact invariants of the time-dependent systems can also be obtained from the constant Hamiltonians of unit mass and frequency by making use of this unitary transformation. The geometric phases for the wave functions of a generalized harmonic oscillator with an inverse-square potential are given.

id: quant-ph/0002066
title: Quantum lower bounds by quantum arguments
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 14 pages, to appear at STOC'00
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002066
abstract: We propose a new method for proving lower bounds on quantum query algorithms. Instead of a classical adversary that runs the algorithm with one input and then modifies the input, we use a quantum adversary that runs the algorithm with a superposition of inputs. If the algorithm works correctly, its state becomes entangled with the superposition over inputs. We bound the number of queries needed to achieve a sufficient entanglement and this implies a lower bound on the number of queries for the computation. Using this method, we prove two new $\Omega(\sqrt{N})$ lower bounds on computing AND of ORs and inverting a permutation and also provide more uniform proofs for several known lower bounds which have been previously proven via variety of different techniques.

id: quant-ph/0002067
title: Rules for Integrals over Products of Distributions from Coordinate Independence of Path Integrals
authors: H. Kleinert, A. Chervyakov
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper also at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 19, 743-747 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002067
abstract: In perturbative calculations of quantum mechanical path integrals in curvilinear coordinates, Feynman diagrams involve multiple temporal integrals over products of distributions, which are mathematically undefined. We derive simple rules for their evaluation from the requirement of coordinate independence of path integrals.

id: quant-ph/0002068
title: Conditions for manipulation of a set of entangled pure states
authors: Chuan-Wei Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 Pages, no Figure, REVTeX. The generalization of quant-ph/9908018
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002068
abstract: We derive a sufficient condition for a set of pure states, each entangled in two remote $N$-dimensional systems, to be transformable to $k$-dimensional-subspace equivalent entangled states ($k\leq N$) by same local operations and classical communication. If $k=N$, the condition is also necessary. This condition reveals the function of the relative marginal density operators of the entangled states in the entanglement manipulation without sufficient information of the initial states.

id: quant-ph/0002069
title: Quantum oscillator as 1D anyon
authors: Ye. Hakobyan, V. Ter-Antonyan
comments: 9 pages, LaTex
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl. 68 (2005) 1709-1712; Yad.Fiz. 68 (2005) 1772-1775
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002069
abstract: It is shown that in one spatial dimension the quantum oscillator is dual to the charged particle situated in the field described by the superposition of Coulomb and Calogero-Sutherland potentials.

id: quant-ph/0002070
title: Generalised coherent states and the diagonal representation for operators
authors: N. Mukunda, Arvind, S. Chaturvedi, R. Simon
comments: (24 pages, no figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002070
abstract: We consider the problem of existence of the diagonal representation for operators in the space of a family of generalized coherent states associated with an unitary irreducible representation of a (compact) Lie group. We show that necessary and sufficient conditions for the possibility of such a representation can be obtained by combining Clebsch-Gordan theory and the reciprocity theorems associated with induced unitary group representation. Applications to several examples involving $SU(2),$ $SU(3),$ and the Heisenberg-Weyl group are presented, showing that there are simple examples of generalized coherent states which do not meet these conditions. Our results are relevant for phase-space description of quantum mechanics and quantum state reconstruction problems.

id: quant-ph/0002071
title: Nonextensive approach to decoherence in quantum mechanics
authors: A. Vidiella-Barranco, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, 1 figure We have corrected a problem with the figures' file as well as a few misprints
journal: Phys. Lett. A 279, 56-60 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002071
abstract: We propose a nonextensive generalization (q parametrized) of the von Neumann equation for the density operator. Our model naturally leads to the phenomenon of decoherence, and unitary evolution is recovered in the limit of q -> 1. The resulting evolution yields a nonexponential decay for quantum coherences, fact that might be attributed to nonextensivity. We discuss, as an example, the loss of coherence observed in trapped ions.

id: quant-ph/0002072
title: Dynamical Generation of Noiseless Quantum Subsystems
authors: Lorenza Viola, Emanuel Knill, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, no figures; REVTeX style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002072
abstract: We present control schemes for open quantum systems that combine decoupling and universal control methods with coding procedures. By exploiting a general algebraic approach, we show how appropriate encodings of quantum states result in obtaining universal control over dynamically-generated noise-protected subsystems with limited control resources. In particular, we provide an efficient scheme for performing universal encoded quantum computation in a wide class of systems subjected to linear non-Markovian quantum noise and supporting Heisenberg-type internal Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0002073
title: Eigenvalues, Peres' separability condition and entanglement
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 12 pages (Revtex); Revised Version; The example of transfer of entanglement is rewritten
journal: Comm. Theor. Phys. Vol.42, p206 (2004) [a little revision]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002073
abstract: The general expression with the physical significance and positive definite condition of the eigenvalues of $4\times 4$ Hermitian and trace-one matrix are obtained. This implies that the eigenvalue problem of the $4\times 4$ density matrix is generally solved. The obvious expression of Peres' separability condition for an arbitrary state of two qubits is then given out and it is very easy to use. Furthermore, we discuss some applications to the calculation of the entanglement, the upper bound of the entanglement, and a model of the transfer of entanglement in a qubit chain through a noisy channel.

id: quant-ph/0002074
title: Test of quantum nonlocality for cavity fields
authors: M. S. Kim, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 14pages, 2figures. accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002074
abstract: There have been studies on formation of quantum-nonlocal states in spatially separate two cavities. We suggest a nonlocal test for the field prepared in the two cavities. We couple classical driving fields with the cavities where a nonlocal state is prepared. Two independent two-level atoms are then sent through respective cavities to interact off-resonantly with the cavity fields. The atomic states are measured after the interaction. Bell's inequality can be tested by the joint probabilities of two-level atoms being in their excited or ground states. We find that quantum nonlocality can also be tested using a single atom sequentially interacting with the two cavities. Potential experimental errors are also considered. We show that with the present experimental condition of 5% error in the atomic velocity distribution, the violation of Bell's inequality can be measured.

id: quant-ph/0002075
title: Operator monotones, the reduction criterion and the relative entropy
authors: M.B. Plenio, S. Virmani, P. Papadopoulos
comments: Final version accepted for publication, added references in reference [1] and [13]
journal: Journal of Physics A 33, L193-197 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002075
abstract: We introduce the theory of operator monotone functions and employ it to derive a new inequality relating the quantum relative entropy and the quantum conditional entropy. We present applications of this new inequality and in particular we prove a new lower bound on the relative entropy of entanglement and other properties of entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0002076
title: Fast Quantum Search Algorithms in Protein Sequence Comparison - Quantum Biocomputing
authors: Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantitative Biology (q-bio)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002076
abstract: Quantum search algorithms are considered in the context of protein sequence comparison in biocomputing. Given a sample protein sequence of length m (i.e m residues), the problem considered is to find an optimal match in a large database containing N residues. Initially, Grover's quantum search algorithm is applied to a simple illustrative case - namely where the database forms a complete set of states over the 2^m basis states of a m qubit register, and thus is known to contain the exact sequence of interest. This example demonstrates explicitly the typical O(sqrt{N}) speedup on the classical O(N) requirements. An algorithm is then presented for the (more realistic) case where the database may contain repeat sequences, and may not necessarily contain an exact match to the sample sequence. In terms of minimizing the Hamming distance between the sample sequence and the database subsequences the algorithm finds an optimal alignment, in O(sqrt{N}) steps, by employing an extension of Grover's algorithm, due to Boyer, Brassard, Hoyer and Tapp for the case when the number of matches is not a priori known.

id: quant-ph/0002077
title: The Physical Implementation of Quantum Computation
authors: David P. DiVincenzo
comments: Prepared for Fortschritte der Physik special issue, Experimental Proposals for Quantum Computation. Version 2: many small corrections. Version 3: more small corrections & references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002077
abstract: After a brief introduction to the principles and promise of quantum information processing, the requirements for the physical implementation of quantum computation are discussed. These five requirements, plus two relating to the communication of quantum information, are extensively explored and related to the many schemes in atomic physics, quantum optics, nuclear and electron magnetic resonance spectroscopy, superconducting electronics, and quantum-dot physics, for achieving quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0002078
title: Quantum Tomography Via Group Theory
authors: M. Paini
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002078
abstract: Amongst the multitude of state reconstruction techniques, the so-called "quantum tomography" seems to be the most fruitful. In this letter, I will start by developing the mathematical apparatus of quantum tomography and, later, I will explain how it can be applied to various quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0002079
title: Cavity Field Reconstruction at Finite Temperature
authors: H. Moya-Cessa, A. Vidiella-Barranco, P. Tombesi, J.A. Roversi
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. of Mod. Optics 47, No. 12, 2127-2131 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002079
abstract: We present a scheme to reconstruct the quantum state of a field prepared inside a lossy cavity at finite temperature. Quantum coherences are normally destroyed by the interaction with an environment, but we show that it is possible to recover complete information about the initial state (before interaction with its environment), making possible to reconstruct any $s$-parametrized quasiprobability distribution, in particular, the Wigner function.

id: quant-ph/0002080
title: Unitary transformation approach for the trapped ion dynamics
authors: H. Moya-Cessa, A. Vidiella-Barranco, J.A. Roversi, S.M. Dutra
comments: 8 pages
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 2, 21 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002080
abstract: We present a way of treating the problem of the interaction of a single trapped ion with laser beams based on successive aplications of unitary transformations onto the Hamiltonian. This allows the diagonalization of the Hamiltonian, by means of recursive relations, without performing the Lamb-Dicke approximation.

id: quant-ph/0002081
title: A group of invariance transformations for nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: B. Galvan
comments: 35 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002081
abstract: This paper defines, on the Galilean space-time, the group of asymptotically Euclidean transformations (AET), which are equivalent to Euclidean transformations at space-time infinity, and proposes a formulation of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics which is invariant under such transformations. This formulation is based on the asymptotic quantum measure, which is shown to be invariant under AET's. This invariance exposes an important connection between AET's and Feynman path integrals, and reveals the nonmetric character of the asymptotic quantum measure. The latter feature becomes even clearer when the theory is formulated in terms of the coordinate-free formalism of asymptotically Euclidean manifold, which do not have a metric structure. This mathematical formalism suggests the following physical interpretation: (i) Particles evolution is represented by trajectories on an asymptotically Euclidean manifold; (ii) The metric and the law of motion are not defined a priori as fundamental entities, but they are properties of a particular class of reference frames; (iii) The universe is considered as a probability space in which the asymptotic quantum measure plays the role of a probability measure. Points (ii) and (iii) are used to build the asymptotic measurement theory, which is shown to be consistent with traditional quantum measurement theory. The most remarkable feature of this measurement theory is the possibility of having a nonchaotic distribution of the initial conditions (NCDIC), an extremely counterintuitive but not paradoxical phenomenon which allows to interpret typical quantum phenomena, such as particle diffraction and tunnel effect, while still providing a description of their motion in terms of classical trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0002082
title: Quantum searching with continuous variables
authors: Arun K. Pati, Samuel L. Braunstein, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, few changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002082
abstract: A fast quantum search algorithm for continuous variables is presented. The result is the quantum continuous variable analog of Grover's algorithm originally proposed for qubits. A continuous variable analog of the Hadamard (i.e., Fourier transform) operation is used in conjunction with inversion about the average of quantum states to allow the approximate identification of an unknown quantum state in a way that gives a square-root speed-up over search algorithms using classical continuous variables. Also, we show that this quantum search algorithm is robust for a generalised Fourier transformation on continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0002083
title: Spiked and PT-symmetrized decadic potentials supporting elementary N-plets of bound states
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 15 pages and two figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 33 (2000) 6825 - 6833
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002083
abstract: We show that the potential wells with a central spike V(x) = x^{10} + a x^8 + b x^6+ c x^4 + d x^2 + f/x^2 possess arbitrary finite multiplets of elementary exact bound states. The strong asymptotic growth of V(x) implies an ambiguity in the PT-symmetric quantization via complex boundary conditions but the three eligible recipes coincide at our exceptional solutions.

id: quant-ph/0002084
title: Decoherence and Planck's Radiation Law
authors: Italo Vecchi
comments: Latex, 7 pages. The presentation has been improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002084
abstract: The foundations of environment-induced decoherence theory are discussed and the role of unphysical assumptions is pointed out. An alternative interpretation of decoherence is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0002085
title: NMR Quantum Computation: a Critical Evaluation
authors: J. A. Jones
comments: Prepared for Fortschritte der Physik special issue, Experimental Proposals for Quantum Computation. 13 pages RevTex 4; no figures. Final version will have to be shorter
journal: Fort. der Physik 48, 909-924 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002085
abstract: Liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques have produced some spectacular successes in the construction of small quantum computers, and NMR is currently by far the leading technology for quantum computation. There are, however, a number of significant problems with any attempt to scale up the technology to produce computers of any useful size. While it is probable that some of these will be successfully sidestepped during the next few years, it is unlikely that they will all be solved; thus current liquid state NMR techniques are unlikely to provide a viable technology for practical quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0002086
title: Pressure dependence of the Mg $3s4s^3S_1 \to 3s3p^3P_{0,1,2}$ transition in superfluid $^4$He
authors: I. Baumann, A. Breidenassel, C. Z¨¹hlke, A. Kasimov, G. zu Putlitz, I. Reinhard, K. Jungmann
comments: submitted to EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 12, 117-122 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002086
abstract: The pressure shifts of the $3s4s^3S_1 \to 3s3p^3P_{0,1,2}$ transition of magnesium atoms immersed in superfluid helium have been measured at $(1.3\pm0.1 )$K between saturated vapour pressure and $24 $bar. The wavelength is blue shifted linearly by $(0.07\pm0.01) \frac{nm}{bar}$. This value can be satisfactorily described in the framework of the standard bubble model.

id: quant-ph/0002087
title: A Tentative Expression of the Karolyhazy Uncertainty of the Space-Time Structure through Vacuum Spreads in Quantum Gravity
authors: Andor Frenkel
comments: 21 pages, latex, no figures
journal: Found.Phys.32:751-771,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002087
abstract: In the existing expositions of the Karolyhazy model, quantum mechanical uncertainties are mimicked by classical spreads. It is shown how to express those uncertainties through entities of the future unified theory of general relativity and quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0002088
title: Optimal quantum teleportation with an arbitrary pure state
authors: Konrad Banaszek
comments: 10 pages, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 024301 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002088
abstract: We derive the maximum fidelity attainable for teleportation using a shared pair of d-level systems in an arbitrary pure state. This derivation provides a complete set of necessary and sufficient conditions for optimal teleportation protocols. We also discuss the information on the teleported particle which is revealed in course of the protocol using a non-maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0002089
title: Operational criterion and constructive checks for the separability of low rank density matrices
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Maciej Lewenstein, Guifr¨¦ Vidal, Ignacio Cirac
comments: RevTex, 10 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032310 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002089
abstract: We consider low rank density operators $\varrho$ supported on a $M\times N$ Hilbert space for arbitrary $M$ and $N$ ($M\leq N$) and with a positive partial transpose (PPT) $\varrho^{T_A}\ge 0$. For rank $r(\varrho) \leq N$ we prove that having a PPT is necessary and sufficient for $\varrho$ to be separable; in this case we also provide its minimal decomposition in terms of pure product states. It follows from this result that there is no rank 3 bound entangled states having a PPT. We also present a necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of generic density matrices for which the sum of the ranks of $\varrho$ and $\varrho^{T_A}$ satisfies $r(\varrho)+r(\varrho^{T_A}) \le 2MN-M-N+2$. This separability condition has the form of a constructive check, providing thus also a pure product state decomposition for separable states, and it works in those cases where a system of couple polynomial equations has a finite number of solutions, as expected in most cases.

id: quant-ph/0002090
title: Integrity bases for local invariants of composite quantum systems
authors: RIA Davis, R Delbourgo, PD Jarvis
comments: Latex, 4 pages, correcting Appendix B of quant-ph/0001076 Error in $F(q)$ corrected and conclusions modified accordingly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002090
abstract: Unitary group branchings appropriate to the calculation of local invariants of density matrices of composite quantum systems are formulated using the method of $S$-function plethysms. From this, the generating function for the number of invariants at each degree in the density matrix can be computed. For the case of two two-level systems the generating function is $F(q) = 1 + q + 4q^{2} + 6 q^{3} + 16 q^{4} + 23 q^{5} + 52 q^{6} + 77 q^{7} + 150 q^{8} + 224 q^{9} + 396 q^{10} + 583 q^{11}+ O(q^{12})$. Factorisation of such series leads in principle to the identification of an integrity basis of algebraically independent invariants. This note replaces Appendix B of our paper\cite{us} J Phys {\bf A33} (2000) 1895-1914 (\texttt{quant-ph/0001076}) which is incorrect.

id: quant-ph/0002091
title: Prospects for photon blockade in four level systems in the N configuration with more than one atom
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, John A. Vaccaro, Sebastian R. de Echaniz, Alan V. Durrant, Jon P. Marangos
comments: 8 page, revtex, 7 figures, gif. Submitted to Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002091
abstract: We show that for appropriate choices of parameters it is possible to achieve photon blockade in idealised one, two and three atom systems. We also include realistic parameter ranges for rubidium as the atomic species. Our results circumvent the doubts cast by recent discussion in the literature (Grangier et al Phys. Rev Lett. 81, 2833 (1998), Imamoglu et al Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 2836 (1998)) on the possibility of photon blockade in multi-atom systems.

id: quant-ph/0002092
title: Fast quantum gates for cold trapped ions
authors: D. Jonathan, M.B. Plenio, P.L. Knight
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; Main changes: a) Added quantitative gate fidelity estimate; b) Added reference to related work by Steane et al (quant-ph/0003087); other minor changes throughout. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 42307 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002092
abstract: We present an alternative scheme for the generation of a 2-qubit quantum gate interaction between laser-cooled trapped ions. The scheme is based on the AC Stark shift (lightshift) induced by laser light resonant with the ionic transition frequency. At {\it specific} laser intensities, the shift of the ionic levels allows the resonant excitation of transitions involving the exchange of motional quanta. We compare the performance of this scheme with respect to that of related ion-trap proposals and find that, for an experimental realisation using travelling-wave radiation and working in the Lamb-Dicke regime, an improvement of over an order of magnitude in the gate switching rate is possible.

id: quant-ph/0002093
title: Double jumps and transition rates for two dipole-interacting atoms
authors: S. Addicks, A. Beige, M. Dakna, G.-C. Hegerfeldt
comments: Substantially revised version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 15, 393 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002093
abstract: Cooperative effects in the fluorescence of two dipole-interacting atoms, with macroscopic quantum jumps (light and dark periods), are investigated. The transition rates between different intensity periods are calculated in closed form and are used to determine the rates of double jumps between periods of double intensity and dark periods, the mean duration of the three intensity periods and the mean rate of their occurrence. We predict, to our knowledge for the first time, cooperative effects for double jumps, for atomic distances from one and to ten wave lengths of the strong transition. The double jump rate, as a function of the atomic distance, can show oscillations of up to 30% at distances of about a wave length, and oscillations are still noticeable at a distance of ten wave lengths. The cooperative effects of the quantities and their characteristic behavior turn out to be strongly dependent on the laser detuning.

id: quant-ph/0002094
title: Completely Positive Quantum Dissipation
authors: B. Vacchini
comments: 8 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 84 (2000) 1374-1377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0002094
abstract: A completely positive master equation describing quantum dissipation for a Brownian particle is derived starting from microphysical collisions, exploiting a recently introduced approach to subdynamics of a macrosystem. The obtained equation can be cast into Lindblad form with a single generator for each Cartesian direction. Temperature dependent friction and diffusion coefficients for both position and momentum are expressed in terms of the collision cross-section.

id: cond-mat/0002079
title: Trapped atomic condensates with anisotropic interactions
authors: S. Yi, L. You
comments: 5 figs., submitted 6/28/99, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002079
abstract: We study the ground state properties of trapped atomic condensates with electric field induced dipole-dipole interactions. A rigorous method for constructing the pseudo potential in the spirit of ladder approximation is developed for general non-spherical (polarized) particles interacting anisotropically. We discuss interesting features not previously considered for currently available alkali condensates. In addition to provide a quantitative assessment for controlling atomic interactions with electric fields, our investigation may also shed new light into the macroscopic coherence properties of the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of dilute interacting atoms.

id: cond-mat/0002095
title: Influence of center-of-mass correlations on spontaneous emission and Lamb shift in dense atomic gases
authors: M. Fleischhauer
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002095
abstract: Local field effects on the rate of spontaneous emission and Lamb shift in a dense gas of atoms are discussed taking into account correlations of atomic center-of-mass coordinates. For this the exact retarded propagator in the medium is calculated in independent scattering approximation and employing a virtual-cavity model. The resulting changes of the atomic polarizability lead to modifications of the medium response which can be of the same order of magnitude but of opposite sign than those due to local field corrections of the dielectric function derived by Morice, Castin, and Dalibard [Phys.Rev.A 51, 3896 (1995)].

id: cond-mat/0002115
title: Delocalization in the Anderson model due to a local measurement
authors: S.A. Gurvitz
comments: 4 pages, additional explanations added, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 812.
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002115
abstract: We study a one-dimensional Anderson model in which one site interacts with a detector monitoring the occupation of that site. We demonstrate that such an interaction, no matter how weak, leads to total delocalization of the Anderson model, and we discuss the experimental consequences

id: cond-mat/0002194
title: Geometry, Statistics and Asymptotics of Quantum Pumps
authors: J.E. Avron, A. Elgart, G.M. Graf, L. Sadun
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002194
abstract: We give a pedestrian interpretation of a formula of Buttiker et. al. (BPT) relating the adiabatically pumped current to the S matrix and its (time) derivatives. We relate the charge in BPT to Berry's phase and the corresponding Brouwer pumping formula to curvature. As applications we derive explicit formulas for the joint probability density of pumping and conductance when the S matrix is uniformly distributed; and derive a new formula that describes hard pumping when the S matrix is periodic in the driving parameters.

id: cond-mat/0002203
title: Continuous weak measurement of quantum coherent oscillations
authors: A.N. Korotkov, D.V. Averin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 165310 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002203
abstract: We consider the problem of continuous quantum measurement of coherent oscillations between two quantum states of an individual two-state system. It is shown that the interplay between the information acquisition and the backaction dephasing of the oscillations by the detector imposes a fundamental limit, equal to 4, on the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement. The limit is universal, e.g., independent of the coupling strength between the detector and system, and results from the tendency of quantum measurement to localize the system in one of the measured eigenstates.

id: cond-mat/0002207
title: Dynamical Origin of Decoherence in Clasically Chaotic Systems
authors: F. M. Cucchietti, H. M. Pastawski, R. Jalabert
comments: Typos corrected, published version
journal: Physica A, 283 (2000) p.285-289
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002207
abstract: The decay of the overlap between a wave packet evolved with a Hamiltonian H and the same state evolved with H}+$\Sigma $ serves as a measure of the decoherence time $\tau_{\phi}$. Recent experimental and analytical evidence on classically chaotic systems suggest that, under certain conditions, $\tau_{\phi}$ depends on H but not on $\Sigma $. By solving numerically a Hamiltonian model we find evidence of that property provided that the system shows a Wigner-Dyson spectrum (which defines quantum chaos) and the perturbation exceeds a crytical value defined by the parametric correlations of the spectra.

id: cond-mat/0002255
title: Macroscopic Quantum Coherence in a Magnetic Nanoparticle Above the Surface of a Superconductor
authors: Eugene M. Chudnovsky, Jonathan R. Friedman
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002255
abstract: We study macroscopic quantum tunneling of the magnetic moment in a single-domain particle placed above the surface of a superconductor. Such a setup allows one to manipulate the height of the energy barrier, preserving the degeneracy of the ground state. The tunneling amplitude and the effect of the dissipation in the superconductor are computed.

id: cond-mat/0002279
title: Quantum measurement of coherence in coupled quantum dots
authors: H.M. Wiseman, Dian Wahyu Utami, He Bi Sun, G.J.Milburn, B.E.Kane, A.Dzurak, R.G.Clark
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002279
abstract: We describe the conditional and unconditional dynamics of two coupled quantum dots when one dot is subjected to a measurement of its occupation number using a single electron transistor (SET). The measurement is made when the bare tunneling rate though the SET is changed by the occupation number of one of the dots. We show that there is a difference between the time scale for the measurement-induced decoherence between the localized states of the dots and the time scale on which the system becomes localized due to the measurement. A comparison between theory and current experiments is made.

id: cond-mat/0002282
title: Low-dimensional Bose liquids: beyond the Gross-Pitaevskii approximation
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, T. J. Newman, Joseph P. Straley, Xiaoya Qi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002282
abstract: The Gross-Pitaevskii approximation is a long-wavelength theory widely used to describe a variety of properties of dilute Bose condensates, in particular trapped alkali gases. We point out that for short-ranged repulsive interactions this theory fails in dimensions d less than or equal to 2, and we propose the appropriate low-dimensional modifications. For d=1 we analyze density profiles in confining potentials, superfluid properties, solitons, and self-similar solutions.

id: cond-mat/0002350
title: Nuclear Spin Qubit Dephasing Time in the Integer Quantum Hall Effect Regime
authors: D. Mozyrsky, V. Privman, I.D. Vagner
comments: 19 pages in plain TeX
journal: Physical Review B 63, item 085313, pages 1-6 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002350
abstract: We report the first theoretical estimate of the nuclear-spin dephasing time T_2 owing to the spin interaction with the two-dimensional electron gas, when the latter is in the integer quantum Hall state, in a two-dimensional heterojunction or quantum well at low temperature and in large applied magnetic field. We establish that the leading mechanism of dephasing is due to the impurity potentials that influence the dynamics of the spin via virtual magnetic spin-exciton scattering. Implications of our results for implementation of nuclear spins as quantum bits (qubits) for quantum computing are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0002390
title: Super-radiant light scattering from trapped Bose Einstein condensates
authors: Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu, L. You
comments: 24 pages,16 figures, submitted to Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys.Rev.A, 62 (2000) 063615
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002390
abstract: We propose a new formulation for atomic side mode dynamics from super-radiant light scattering of trapped atoms. A detailed analysis of the recently observed super-radiant light scattering from trapped bose gases [S. Inouye {\it et al.}, Science {\bf 285}, 571 (1999)] is presented. We find that scattered light intensity can exhibit both oscillatory and exponential growth behaviors depending on densities, pump pulse characteristics, temperatures, and geometric shapes of trapped gas samples. The total photon scattering rate as well as the accompanied matter wave amplification depends explicitly on atom number fluctuations in the condensate. Our formulation allows for natural and transparent interpretations of subtle features in the MIT data, and provides numerical simulations in good agreement with all aspects of the experimental observations.

id: cond-mat/0002417
title: Paraxial propagation of a quantum charge in a random magnetic field
authors: Andrei Shelankov
comments: Figures and references added. Many typos corrected. RevTex, 25 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002417
abstract: The paraxial (parabolic) theory of a near forward scattering of a quantum charged particle by a static magnetic field is presented. From the paraxial solution to the Aharonov-Bohm scattering problem the transverse transfered momentum (the Lorentz force) is found. Multiple magnetic scattering is considered for two models: (i) Gaussian $\delta$ -correlated random magnetic field; (ii) a random array of the Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux line. The paraxial gauge-invariant two-particle Green function averaged with respect to the random field is found by an exact evaluation of the Feynman integral. It is shown that in spite of the anomalous character of the forward scattering, the transport properties can be described by the Boltzmann equation. The Landau quantization in the field of the Aharonov-Bohm lines is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0002422
title: Casimir Dispersion Forces and Orientational Pairwise Additivity
authors: Ramin Golestanian
comments: 6 pages, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002422
abstract: A path integral formulation is used to study the fluctuation-induced interactions between manifolds of arbitrary shape at large separations. It is shown that the form of the interactions crucially depends on the choice of the boundary condition. In particular, whether or not the Casimir interaction is pairwise additive is shown to depend on whether the ``metallic'' boundary condition corresponds to a ``grounded'' or an ``isolated'' manifold.

id: cond-mat/0002437
title: Stochastic Models of Exotic Transport
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: delivered at 36th Karpacz Winter Schoool of Theoretical Physics, 11-19 Feb. 00
journal: Physica A 285, (2000), 187-198
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002437
abstract: Non-typical transport phenomena may arise when randomly driven particles remain in an active relationship with the environment instead of being passive. If we attribute to Brownian particles an ability to induce alterations of the environment on suitable space-time scales, those in turn must influence their further movement. In that case a general feedback mechanism needs to be respected. By resorting to a specific choice of the particle-bath coupling, an enhanced (super-diffusion) or non-dispersive diffusion-typ processes are found to exist in generically non-equilibrium contexts.

id: cond-mat/0002462
title: Quantum Systems Obeying to Generalized Exclusion-Inclusion Principle
authors: Antonio Maria Scarfone
comments: 119 Pages, 8 Figures, Ph.D. thesis
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0002462
abstract: In this work is studied a many body system obeying to a generalized Exclusion-Inclusion Principle (EIP) originated by collective effect, the dynamics, in mean field approximation, being ruled by a nonlinear Schroedinger equation. The EIP is introduced by a judicious generalization of the particle current. By means of variational principle is obtained a canonical nonlinear Schroedinger equation. We study the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulation. We study the symmetries of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation obeying to EIP and by means of Noether theorem we obtain and discuss conserved quantities. Successively, EIP-Schroedinger equation is coupled in a minimal way to an abelian gauge field which dynamics is described by the Maxwell-Chern-Simons Lagrangian. We show that the anyonic statistic behavior ascribed to the system by the Chern-Simons Lagrangian is not destroyed by the presence of EIP potential. Finally, we study special solutions of the system. Applications on the Bose-Einstein condensation and vortex-like solution in the picture of Chern-Simons interaction are considered.

id: gr-qc/0002002
title: Gravitation, the Quantum, and Bohr's Correspondence Principle
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 8 pages. This essay received the Fifth Prize from the Gravity Research Foundation 1999
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 31 (1999) 1639
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002002
abstract: The black hole combines in some sense both the ``hydrogen atom'' and the ``black-body radiation'' problems of quantum gravity. This analogy suggests that black-hole quantization may be the key to a quantum theory of gravity. During the last twenty-five years evidence has been mounting that black-hole surface area is indeed {\it quantized}, with {\it uniformally} spaced area eigenvalues. There is, however, no general agreement on the {\it spacing} of the levels. In this essay we use Bohr's correspondence principle to provide this missing link. We conclude that the fundamental area unit is $4\hbar\ln3$. This is the unique spacing consistent both with the area-entropy {\it thermodynamic} relation for black holes, with Boltzmann-Einstein formula in {\it statistical physics} and with {\it Bohr's correspondence principle}.

id: gr-qc/0002005
title: Wave-Particle duality at the Planck scale: Freezing of neutrino oscillations
authors: D. V. Ahluwalia
comments: Published version
journal: Phys.Lett.A275:31-35,2000
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002005
abstract: A gravitationally-induced modification to de Broglie wave-particle duality is presented. At Planck scale, the gravitationally-modified matter wavelength saturates to a few times the Planck length in a momentum independent manner. In certain frameworks, this circumstance freezes neutrino oscillations in the Planck realm. This effect is apart, and beyond, the gravitational red-shift. A conclusion is drawn that in a complete theory of quantum gravity the notions of ``quantum'' and ``gravity'' shall carry new meanings -- meanings, that are yet to be deciphered from theory and observations in their entirety.

id: gr-qc/0002012
title: Principia Physica
authors: Mukul Patel
comments: 14 pages, includes table of contents
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002012
abstract: A comprehensive physical theory explains all aspects of the physical universe, including quantum aspects, classical aspects, relativistic aspects, their relationships, and unification. The central nonlocality principle leads to a nonlocal geometry that explains entire quantum phenomenology, including two-slit experiment, Aspect-type experiments, quantum randomness, tunneling, etc. The infinitesimal aspect of this geometry is a usual (differential) geometry, various aspects of which are energy-momentum, spin-helicity, electric, color and flavor charges. Their interactions are governed by a mathematically automatic field equation - also a grand conservation principle. New predictions: a new particle property; bending-of-light estimates refined over relativity's; shape of the universe; a no-gravitational-singularity theorem, etc. Nonlocal physics is formulated using a nonlocal calculus and nonlocal differential equations, replacing inadequate local concepts of Newton's calculus and partial differential equations. Usual quantum formalisms follow from our theory - the latter doesn't rest on the former.

id: gr-qc/0002015
title: Sonic analog of gravitational black holes in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: L. J. Garay, J. R. Anglin, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: RevTeX 3.1, 1 figure, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.85:4643-4647,2000
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002015
abstract: It is shown that, in dilute-gas Bose-Einstein condensates, there exist both dynamically stable and unstable configurations which, in the hydrodynamic limit, exhibit a behavior resembling that of gravitational black holes. The dynamical instabilities involve creation of quasiparticle pairs in positive and negative energy states, as in the well-known suggested mechanism for black hole evaporation. We propose a scheme to generate a stable sonic black hole in a ring trap.

id: gr-qc/0002023
title: Relational evolution of the degrees of freedom of generally covariant quantum theories
authors: Merced Montesinos
comments: 25 pages, no figures, Latex file. Revised version
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 33 (2001) 1-28
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002023
abstract: We study the classical and quantum dynamics of generally covariant theories with vanishing a Hamiltonian and with a finite number of degrees of freedom. In particular, the geometric meaning of the full solution of the relational evolution of the degrees of freedom is displayed, which means the determination of the total number of evolving constants of motion required. Also a method to find evolving constants is proposed. The generalized Heinsenberg picture needs M time variables, as opposed to the Heisenberg picture of standard quantum mechanics where one time variable t is enough. As an application, we study the parameterized harmonic oscillator and the SL(2,R) model with one physical degree of freedom that mimics the constraint structure of general relativity where a Schrodinger equation emerges in its quantum dynamics.

id: gr-qc/0002024
title: Statistical mechanics of generally covariant quantum theories: A Boltzmann-like approach
authors: Merced Montesinos, Carlo Rovelli
comments: 18 pages, no figures, Latex file. Revised version. Accepted for publication in Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 18 (2001) 555-569
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002024
abstract: We study the possibility of applying statistical mechanics to generally covariant quantum theories with a vanishing Hamiltonian. We show that (under certain appropiate conditions) this makes sense, in spite of the absence of a notion of energy and external time. We consider a composite system formed by a large number of identical components, and apply Boltzmann's ideas and the fundamental postulates of ordinary statistical physics. The thermodynamical parameters are determined by the properties of the thermalizing interaction. We apply these ideas to a simple example, in which the component system has one physical degree of freedom and mimics the constraint algebra of general relativity.

id: gr-qc/0002029
title: Evolution of the Quantum Friedmann Universe Featuring Radiation
authors: V. V. Kuzmichev
comments: 11 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl. 62 (1999) 708-714; Yad.Fiz. 62 (1999) 758-764
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002029
abstract: The classical and quantum models of the Friedmann universe originally filled with a scalar field and radiation have been studied. The radiation has been used to specify a reference frame that makes it possible to remove ambiguities in choosing the time coordinate. Solutions to the Einstein and Schroedinger equations have been studied under the assumption that the rate of scalar-field variation is much less than the rate of universe expansion (contraction). It has been shown that, under certain conditions, the quantum universe can be in quasistationary states. The probability that the universe goes over to states with large quantum numbers owing to the interaction of the scalar and gravitational fields is nonzero. It has been shown that, in the lowest state, the scale factor is on order of the Planck length. The matter- and radiation-energy densities in the Planck era have been computed. The possible scenarios of Universe evolution are discussed.

id: gr-qc/0002030
title: Highly Excited Friedmann Universe
authors: V. V. Kuzmichev
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl. 62 (1999) 1524-1529; Yad.Fiz. 62N9 (1999) 1625-1631
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0002030
abstract: A highly excited Friedmann universe filled with a scalar field and radiation has been considered. On the basis of a direct solution to the quantum-mechanical problem with a well-defined time variable, it has been shown that such a universe can have features (energy density, scale factor, Hubble constant, density parameter, matter mass, equivalent number of baryons, age, dimensions of large-scale fluctuations, amplitude of fluctuations of cosmic microwave background radiation temperature) identical to those of the currently observed Universe.

id: hep-ph/0002093
title: Exact Solutions of the Dirac Equation for Modified Coulombic Potentials
authors: Antonio Soares de Castro, Jerrold Franklin
comments: 7 pages, Latex file
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A15 (2000) 4355-4360
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0002093
abstract: Exact solutions are found to the Dirac equation for a combination of Lorentz scalar and vector Coulombic potentials with additional non-Coulombic parts. An appropriate linear combination of Lorentz scalar and vector non-Coulombic potentials, with the scalar part dominating, can be chosen to give exact analytic Dirac wave functions. The method works for the ground state or for the lowest orbital state with l=j-{1/2}, for any j.

id: hep-th/0002043
title: Geometry of the physical phase space in quantum gauge models
authors: Sergei V. Shabanov
comments: A review (Phys. Rep.), 170 pages, 9 figures, plain Latex
journal: Phys.Rept. 326 (2000) 1-163
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0002043
abstract: The physical phase space in gauge systems is studied. Effects caused by a non-Euclidean geometry of the physical phase space in quantum gauge models are described in the operator and path integral formalisms. The projection on the Dirac gauge invariant states is used to derive a necessary modification of the Hamiltonian path integral in gauge theories of the Yang-Mills type with fermions that takes into account the non-Euclidean geometry of the physical phase space. The new path integral is applied to resolve the Gribov obstruction. Applications to the Kogut-Susskind lattice gauge theory are given. The basic ideas are illustrated with examples accessible for non-specialists.

id: hep-th/0002049
title: Finite Temperature Casimir Effect for a Dilute Ball Satisfying $¦Å ¦Ì=1$
authors: I. Brevik, T. A. Yousef
comments: 18 pages, 5 eps figures; minor extensions of the discussion in sect. 3; 5 new references. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys.A33:5819-5832,2000
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0002049
abstract: The finite temperature Casimir free energy is calculated for a dielectric ball of radius $a$ embedded in an infinite medium. The condition $\epsilon\mu=1$ is assumed for the inside/outside regions. Both the Green function method and the mode summation method are considered, and found to be equivalent. For a dilute medium we find, assuming a simple "square" dispersion relation with an abrupt cutoff at imaginary frequency $\hat \omega= \omega_0$, the high temperature Casimir free energy to be negative and proportional to $x_0 \equiv \omega_0 a$. Also, a physically more realistic dispersion relation involving spatial dispersion is considered, and is shown to lead to comparable results.

id: hep-th/0002083
title: Bidyon as an electromagnetic model for charged particle with spin
authors: Alexander A. Chernitskii
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX2e; published version
journal: Hadronic J. 26 (2003) 515-523
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0002083
abstract: A general model of nonlinear electrodynamics with dyon singularities is considered. We consider the field configuration having two dyon singularities with identical electric and opposite magnetic charges and we name it bidyon. We investigate the sum of two dyon solutions as an initial approximation to the bidyon solution. We consider the case when the velocities of the dyons have equal modules and opposite directions on a common line. It is shown that the associated field configuration has a constant full angular momentum which is independent of distance between the dyons and their speed. This property permits a consideration of this bidyon configuration as an electromagnetic model for charged particle with spin. We discuss the possible electrodynamic world with oscillating bidyons as particles.

id: hep-th/0002251
title: The diagonalization of quantum field Hamiltonians
authors: Dean Lee, Nathan Salwen, Daniel Lee
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, new material added
journal: Phys.Lett. B503 (2001) 223-235
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0002251
abstract: We introduce a new diagonalization method called quasi-sparse eigenvector diagonalization which finds the most important basis vectors of the low energy eigenstates of a quantum Hamiltonian. It can operate using any basis, either orthogonal or non-orthogonal, and any sparse Hamiltonian, either Hermitian, non-Hermitian, finite-dimensional, or infinite-dimensional. The method is part of a new computational approach which combines both diagonalization and Monte Carlo techniques.

id: math-ph/0002001
title: Finite Dimensional Representations of Quadratic Algebras with Three Generators and Applications
authors: C. Daskaloyannis
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX 2e, Talk given at the VI International Wigner Symposium, 16-22 August 1999, Instabul, Turkey
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0002001
abstract: The finite dimensional representations of associative quadratic algebras with three generators are investigated by using a technique based on the deformed parafermionic oscillator algebra. One application on the calculation of the eigenvalues of the two-dimensional superintegrable systems is discussed.

id: math-ph/0002040
title: Localization Regions of Local Observables
authors: Bernd Kuckert
comments: 32 pages, no figures
journal: Commun.Math.Phys. 215 (2000) 197-216
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0002040
abstract: Exploiting the properties of the Jost-Lehmann-Dyson representation, it is shown that in 1+2 or more spacetime dimensions, a nonempty smallest localization region can be associated with each local observable (except for the c-numbers) in a theory of local observables in the sense of Araki, Haag, and Kastler. Necessary and sufficient conditions are given that observables with spacelike separated localization regions commute (locality of the net alone does not yet imply this).

id: math/0002124
title: Z_2-systolic-freedom
authors: Michael H. Freedman
comments: 11 pages. Published copy, also available at this http URL
journal: Geom. Topol. Monogr. 2 (1999), 113-123
subjects: Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0002124
abstract: We give the first example of systolic freedom over torsion coefficients. The phenomenon is a bit unexpected (contrary to a conjecture of Gromov's) and more delicate than systolic freedom over the integers.

id: nlin/0002013
title: Fractal stabilization of Wannier-Stark resonances
authors: M. Glueck, A.R. Kolovsky, H.J. Korsch
comments: 6 pages, 3 Postscript figures, Europhysics Letter (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0002013
abstract: The quasienergy spectrum of a Bloch electron affected by dc-ac fields is known to be a fractal function of the so-called electric matching ratio which is the ratio of the ac field frequency and the Bloch frequency. This paper studies a manifestation of the fractal spectrum in the system atom in a standing laser wave, which is a quantum optical realization of a Bloch electron. It is shown that for an appropriate choice of the system parameters the atomic survival probability (a quantity measured in laboratory experiments) develops a fractal structure as a function of the electric matching ratio. Numerical simulations under classically chaotic scattering conditions show good agreement with theoretical predictions based on random matrix theory.

id: nlin/0002044
title: Quantum-classical correspondence for local density of states and eigenfunctions of a chaotic periodic billiard
authors: G. A. Luna-Acosta, J. A. Mendez-Bermudez, F. M. Izrailev
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 274, 192 (2000).
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0002044
abstract: Classical-quantum correspondence for conservative chaotic Hamiltonians is investigated in terms of the structure of the eigenfunctions and the local density of states, using as a model a 2D rippled billiard in the regime of global chaos. The influence of the observed localized and sparsed states in the quantum-classical correspondence is discussed.

id: nlin/0002055
title: Morphological Image Analysis of Quantum Motion in Billiards
authors: J.S.Kole, K.Michielsen, H. De Raedt
comments: Major revision. Changes include a more detailed discussion of the theory and results for 3 dimensions. Now: 10 pages, 9 figures (some are colored), 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0002055
abstract: Morphological image analysis is applied to the time evolution of the probability distribution of a quantum particle moving in two and three-dimensional billiards. It is shown that the time-averaged Euler characteristic of the probability density provides a well defined quantity to distinguish between classically integrable and non-integrable billiards. In three dimensions the time-averaged mean breadth of the probability density may also be used for this purpose.

id: physics/0002044
title: Multiple scattering of light by atoms in the weak localization regime
authors: Thibaut Jonckheere, Cord A. Mueller, Robin Kaiser, Christian Miniatura, Dominique Delande
comments: 4 pages RevTex, 2 figures. v3: Minor changes in the text, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4269 (2000)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0002044
abstract: Coherent backscattering is a multiple scattering interference effect which enhances the diffuse reflection off a disordered sample in the backward direction. Classically, the enhanced intensity is twice the average background under well chosen experimental conditions. We show how the quantum internal structure of atomic scatterers leads to a significantly smaller enhancement. Theoretical results for double scattering in the weak localization regime are presented which confirm recent experimental observations.

