id: quant-ph/0003001
title: Quantum Phase Transitions in a Linear Ion Trap
authors: G.J.Milburn, Paul Alsing
comments: 6 pages and 2 figures. submitted to Dan Walls Memorial Volume, edited by H. Carmichael, R. Glauber, and M. Scully, to be published by Springer
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003001
abstract: We show that the quantum phase transition of the Tavis-Cummings model can be realised in a linear ion trap of the kind proposed for quantum computation. The Tavis-Cummings model describes the interaction between a bosonic degree of freedom and a collective spin. In an ion trap, the collective spin system is a symmetrised state of the internal electronic states of N ions, while the bosonic system is the vibrational degree of freedom of the centre of mass mode for the ions.

id: quant-ph/0003002
title: Optimal local preparation of an arbitrary mixed state of two qubits. Closed expression for the single copy case
authors: Guifr¨¦ Vidal
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 062315 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003002
abstract: In this note we consider the problem of preparing a {\em single} copy of an arbitrary two-qubit mixed state $\rho$ starting from an entangled pure state $\psi$ and using only local operations assisted with classical communication. We present an analytical expression for the minimal amount of pure state entanglement required, and describe the corresponding local strategy. We also examine optimal probabilistic generalizations of the previous process.

id: quant-ph/0003003
title: Parallel Quantum Computation, the Library of Babel and Quantum Measurement as the Efficient Librarian
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 2 pages, RevTex, no figures. An excerpt from a longer (referenced) work, with a justification of the quantum speed-up
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003003
abstract: The complementary roles played by parallel quantum computation and quantum measurement in originating the quantum speed-up are illustrated through an analogy with a famous metaphor by J.L. Borges.

id: quant-ph/0003004
title: Simple Proof of Security of the BB84 Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Peter W. Shor, John Preskill
comments: 5 pages, Latex, minor changes to improve clarity and fix typos
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.85:441-444,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003004
abstract: We prove the security of the 1984 protocol of Bennett and Brassard (BB84) for quantum key distribution. We first give a key distribution protocol based on entanglement purification, which can be proven secure using methods from Lo and Chau's proof of security for a similar protocol. We then show that the security of this protocol implies the security of BB84. The entanglement-purification based protocol uses Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes, and properties of these codes are used to remove the use of quantum computation from the Lo-Chau protocol.

id: quant-ph/0003005
title: Symmetric Classical Mechanics
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 17 pages, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003005
abstract: We investigate the possibility that the semiclassical limit of quantum mechanics might be correctly described by a classical dynamical theory, other than standard classical mechanics. Using a set of classicality criteria proposed in a related paper, we show that the time evolution of a set of quantum initial data satisfying these criteria is fully consistent with the predictions of a new theory of classical dynamics. The dynamical structure of the new theory is given by the Moyal bracket. This is a Lie bracket that was first derived as the dynamical structure of the Moyal-Weyl-Wigner formulation of quantum mechanics. We present a new derivation of the Moyal bracket, this time in the context of the semiclassical limit of quantum mechanics and thus prove that both classical and quantum dynamics can be formulated in terms of the same canonical structure.

id: quant-ph/0003006
title: Space Searches with a Quantum Robot
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 13 pages plus 1 figure. Minor revision. Amended to fit AMS requirements for publication in the AMS Contemporary Math Series volume, Quantum Computation & Information
journal: AMS Contemporary Math Series, Vol 305, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003006
abstract: Quantum robots are described as mobile quantum computers and ancillary systems that move in and interact with arbitrary environments. Their dynamics is given as tasks which consist of sequences of alternating computation and action phases. A task example is considered in which a quantum robot searches a space region to find the location of a system. The possibility that the search can be more efficient than a classical search is examined by considering use of Grover's Algorithm to process the search results. For reversible searches this is problematic for two reasons. One is the removal of entanglements generated by the search process. The other is that even if the entanglement can be avoided, the search process in 2-D space regions is no more efficient than a classical search. However, quantum searches of space regions with 3 or more dimensions are more efficient than classical searches. Reasons why quantum robots are interesting independent of these results are briefly summarized.

id: quant-ph/0003007
title: Some remarks on separability of states
authors: Wladyslaw A. Majewski
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003007
abstract: Several problems concerning separable states are clarified on the basis of Choi's scheme and old Kadison and Tomiyama results. Moreover, we generalize Terhal's construction of positive maps.

id: quant-ph/0003008
title: Separability properties of tripartite states with UxUxU-symmetry
authors: T. Eggeling, R.F. Werner
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003008
abstract: We study separability properties in a 5-dimensional set of states of quantum systems composed of three subsystems of equal but arbitrary finite Hilbert space dimension. These are the states, which can be written as linear combinations of permutation operators, or, equivalently, commute with unitaries of the form UxUxU. We compute explicitly the following subsets: (1) triseparable states, which are convex combinations of triple tensor products, (2) biseparable states, which are separable for a twofold partition of the system, and (3) states with positive partial transpose with respect to such a partition.

id: quant-ph/0003009
title: Motional sidebands and direct measurement of the cooling rate in the resonance fluorescence of a single trapped ion
authors: Ch. Raab, J. Eschner, J. Bolle, H. Oberst, F. Schmidt-Kaler, R. Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Final version after minor changes, 1 figure replaced; to be published in PRL, July 10, 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003009
abstract: Resonance fluorescence of a single trapped ion is spectrally analyzed using a heterodyne technique. Motional sidebands due to the oscillation of the ion in the harmonic trap potential are observed in the fluorescence spectrum. From the width of the sidebands the cooling rate is obtained and found to be in agreement with the theoretical prediction.

id: quant-ph/0003010
title: On the possibility of quantum computation based on photon exchange interactions
authors: T. Opatrny, G. Kurizki
comments: 5 pages REVTeX. Published form + 1 new reference
journal: Fort. Phys. 48, 1125-1131 (2000) Special Issue on Experimental Proposals for Quantum Computation
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003010
abstract: We examine several proposed schemes by Franson et al. for quantum logic gates based on non-local exchange interactions between two photons in a medium. In these schemes the presence of a {\em single} photon in a given mode is supposed to induce a large phase shift on another photon propagating in the same medium. We conclude that the schemes proposed so far are not able to produce the required conditional phase shift, even though the proposals contain many stimulating and intriguing ideas.

id: quant-ph/0003011
title: Extended coherent states and modified perturbation theory
authors: G.Filippov
comments: LaTex, 7 pages, no figures, minor corrections
journal: J.Phys.A: 32, L293 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003011
abstract: An extended coherent state for describing a system of two interacting quanum objects is considered. A modified perturbation theory based on using the extended coherent states is formulated.

id: quant-ph/0003012
title: New experimental test of Bell inequalities by the use of a non-maximally entangled photon state
authors: G. Brida, M.Genovese, C. Novero, E. Predazzi
comments: accepted for publication
journal: Phys.Lett. A268 (2000) 12-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003012
abstract: We report on the first realisation of a test of Bell inequalities using non-maximally entangled states. It is based on the superposition of type I parametric down conversion produced in two different non-linear crystals pumped by the same laser, but with different polarisations. We discuss the advantages and the possible developments of this configuration.

id: quant-ph/0003013
title: Resonance Fluorescence Spectrum of a Trapped Ion Undergoing Quantum Jumps
authors: V. Buehner, Chr. Tamm
comments: 14 pages including 4 figures, pdf file, fig.1 replaced
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Volume 61, 061801(R) (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003013
abstract: We experimentally investigate the resonance fluorescence spectrum of single 171Yb and 172Yb ions which are laser cooled to the Lamb-Dicke regime in a radiofrequency trap. While the fluorescence scattering of 172Yb is continuous, the 171Yb fluorescence is interrupted by quantum jumps because a nonvanishing rate of spontaneous transitions leads to electron shelving in the metastable hyperfine sublevel 2D3/2(F=2). The average duration of the resulting dark periods can be varied by changing the intensity of a repumping laser field. Optical heterodyne detection is employed to analyze the fluorescence spectrum near the Rayleigh elastic scattering peak. It is found that the stochastic modulation of the fluorescence emission by quantum jumps gives rise to a Lorentzian component in the fluorescence spectrum, and that the linewidth of this component varies according to the average duration of the dark fluorescence periods. The experimental observations are in quantitative agreement with theoretical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0003014
title: An NMR-based nanostructure switch for quantum logic
authors: John H. Reina, Luis Quiroga, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 2 separate PostScript figures. Minor changes included. One reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B (rapid comm.) 62, 2267 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003014
abstract: We propose a nanostructure switch based on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) which offers reliable quantum gate operation, an essential ingredient for building a quantum computer. The nuclear resonance is controlled by the magic number transitions of a few-electron quantum dot in an external magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0003015
title: Atomic Quantum State Teleportation and Swapping
authors: A. Kuzmich, E. S. Polzik
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 5639 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003015
abstract: A set of protocols for atomic quantum state teleportation and swapping utilizing Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen light is proposed. The protocols are suitable for collective spin states of a macroscopic sample of atoms, i.e. for continuous atomic variables. Feasibility of experimental realization for teleportation of a gas sample of atoms is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0003016
title: Classical and quantum mechanics on information spaces with applications to cognitive, psychological, social and anomalous phenomena
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics,29, N. 7, 1065-1098 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003016
abstract: We use the system of p-adic numbers for the description of information processes. Basic objects of our models are so called transformers of information, basic processes are information processes, the statistics are information statistics (thus we present a model of information reality). The classical and quantum mechanical formalisms on information p-adic spaces are developed. It seems that classical and quantum mechanical models on p-adic information spaces can be applied for the investigation of flows of information in cognitive and social systems, since a p-adic metric gives quite natural description of the ability to form associations.

id: quant-ph/0003017
title: Non-Kolmogorov probability models and modified Bell's inequality
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003017
abstract: We analyse the proof of Bell's inequality and demonstrate that this inequality is related to one particular model of probability theory, namely Kolmogorov measure-theoretical axiomatics, 1933. We found a (numerical) statistical correction to Bell's inequality. Such an additional term in the right hand side of Bell's inequality can be considered as a probability invariant of a quantum state. This is a measure of nonreproducibility of hidden variables in different runs of experiments. Experiments to verify Bell's inequality can be considered as just experiments to estimate this constant. It seems that Bell's inequality could not be used as a crucial reason to deny local realism. We consider deterministic as well as stochastic hidden variables models.

id: quant-ph/0003018
title: The Modal Interpretation of Algebraic Quantum Field Theory
authors: Rob Clifton
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Lett. A271 (2000) 167-177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003018
abstract: In a recent article, Dieks has proposed a way to implement the modal interpretation of (nonrelativistic) quantum theory in relativistic quantum field theory. We show that his proposal fails to yield a well-defined prescription for which observables in a local spacetime region possess definite values. On the other hand, we demonstrate that there is a well-defined and unique way of extending the modal interpretation to the local algebras of relativistic quantum field theory. This extension, however, faces a potentially serious difficulty in connection with ergodic states of a field.

id: quant-ph/0003019
title: Finite temperature excitations of an inhomogneous trapped Bose gas with Feshbach resonances
authors: X.X.Yi, D.L.Zhou, C.P.Sun, W.M.Zheng
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 33(2000)1193
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003019
abstract: We derive and discuss the temperature dependance of the condensate and noncondensate density profile of a Bose-Einstein condensate gas with Feshbach resonance in a parabolic trap. These quantities are calculated self-consistently using the generalized Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov (HFB) equations within the Bogoliubov approximation. At zero temperature, the HFB equation can be solved by means of a variation method that give the low excitation spectrum. Moreover, within the two-body collision theory, we estimate the relationship between the atom number and the external magnetic field $B$, it is in good agreement with the data in recent experiments.

id: quant-ph/0003020
title: Parallel and Anti-Parallel Spins: More Differences
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Anirban Roy, Ujjwal Sen
comments: this paper is withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003020
abstract: The authors have withdrawn this paper.

id: quant-ph/0003021
title: Casimir force at both non-zero temperature and finite conductivity
authors: M. Bordag, B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003021
abstract: We find the joint effect of non-zero temperature and finite conductivity onto the Casimir force between real metals. Configurations of two parallel plates and a sphere (lens) above a plate are considered. Perturbation theory in two parameters (the relative temperature and the relative penetration depth of zero point oscillations into the metal) is developed. Perturbative results are compared with computations. Recent evidence concerning possible existence of large temperature corrections at small separations between the real metals is not supported.

id: quant-ph/0003022
title: Quantum Computing with Neutral Atoms in an Optical Lattice
authors: Ivan H. Deutsch, Gavin K. Brennen, Poul S. Jessen
comments: Submitted to the Speical Issue of "Forschritte der Physik" on Physical Implentations of Quantum Computing. (One PdF file)
journal: Forsch. der Phys. 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003022
abstract: We present a proposal for quantum information processing with neutral atoms trapped in optical lattices as qubits. Initialization and coherent control of single qubits can be achieved with standard laser cooling and spectroscopic techniques. We consider entangling two-qubit logic gates based on optically induced dipole-dipole interactions, calculating a figure-of-merit for various protocols. Massive parallelism intrinsic to the lattice geometry makes this an intriguing system for scalable, fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0003023
title: Maximally entangled mixed states in two qubits
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka, Tohya Hiroshima
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 022310 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003023
abstract: We propose novel mixed states in two qubits, ``maximally entangled mixed states'', which have a property that the amount of entanglement of these states cannot be increased further by applying any unitary operations. The property is proven when the rank of the states is less than 4, and confirmed numerically in the other general cases. The corresponding entanglement of formation specified by its eigenvalues gives an upper bound of that for density matrices with same eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0003024
title: Factoring the unitary evolution operator and quantifying entanglement
authors: X.X.Yi, C.P.Sun
comments: 11 pages, LATEX, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 262(1999)287
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003024
abstract: The unitary evolution can be represented by a finite product of exponential operators. It leads to a perturbative expression of the density operator of a close system. Based on the perturbative expression scheme, we present a entanglement measure, this measure has the advantage that it is easy to compute for a general dynamical process.

id: quant-ph/0003025
title: Lambda's, V's and optimal cloning with stimulated emission
authors: Julia Kempe, Christoph Simon, Gregor Weihs
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032302 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003025
abstract: We show that optimal universal cloning of the polarization state of photons can be achieved via stimulated emission in three-level systems, both of the Lambda and the V type. We establish the equivalence of our systems with coupled harmonic oscillators, which permits us to analyze the structure of the cloning transformations realized. These transformations are shown to be equivalent to the optimal cloning transformations for qubits discovered by Buzek and Hillery, and Gisin and Massar. The down-conversion cloner discovered previously by some of the authors is obtained as a limiting case. We demonstrate an interesting equivalence between systems of Lambda atoms and systems of pairwise entangled V atoms. Finally we discuss the physical differences between our photon cloners and the qubit cloners considered previously and prove that the bounds on the fidelity of the clones derived for qubits also apply in our situation.

id: quant-ph/0003026
title: Quantum mechanical probabilities and general probabilistic constraints for Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages, no figures; Final version, to be published in Found. Phys. Letters
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 13 (2000) 427-442
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003026
abstract: Relativistic causality, namely, the impossibility of signaling at superluminal speeds, restricts the kinds of correlations which can occur between different parts of a composite physical system. Here we establish the basic restrictions which relativistic causality imposes on the joint probabilities involved in an experiment of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm type. Quantum mechanics, on the other hand, places further restrictions beyond those required by general considerations like causality and consistency. We illustrate this fact by considering the sum of correlations involved in the CHSH inequality. Within the general framework of the CHSH inequality, we also consider the nonlocality theorem derived by Hardy, and discuss the constraints that relativistic causality, on the one hand, and quantum mechanics, on the other hand, impose on it. Finally, we derive a simple inequality which can be used to test quantum mechanics against general probabilistic theories.

id: quant-ph/0003027
title: Light Pulse Squeezed State Formation In Medium With The Relaxation Kerr Nonlinearity
authors: A. S. Chirkin, F. Popescu
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, 2 .eps figures, Talk given at ICSSUR'99, May 1999, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003027
abstract: The consistent theory of formation of pulsed squeezed states as a result of self-action of ultrashort light pulse in the medium with relaxation Kerr nonlinearity has been developed. A simple method to form the ultrashort light pulse with sub-Poissonian photon statistics is analyzed too.

id: quant-ph/0003028
title: Quantum theory of self-action of ultrashort light pulses in an inertial nonlinear medium
authors: F. Popescu, A. S. Chirkin
comments: 10 pages (RevTex), 5 .eps figures, typos corrected and some cosmetical changes made in formulae on pages. 2, 3, acknowledgments added; submitted to Phys.Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003028
abstract: The systematic theory of the formation of the short light pulses in the squeezed state during the propagation in a medium with inertial Kerr nonlinearity is developed. The algebra of time-dependent Bose-operators is elaborated and the normal-ordering theorem for them is formulated. It is established that the spectral region where the quadrature fluctuations are weaker than the shot-noise, depends on both the relaxation time of the nonlinearity and the magnitude of the nonlinear phase shift. It is also shown that the frequency at which suppression of the fluctuation is greatest can be controlled by adjusting the phase of the initial coherent light pulse. The spectral correlation function of photons is introduced and photon antibunching is found.

id: quant-ph/0003029
title: Controlling decoherence of a two-level-atom in a lossy cavity
authors: M. Thorwart, L. Hartmann, I. Goychuk, P. H?nggi
comments: 12 pages including 3 figures, submitted for publication
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47, 2905 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003029
abstract: By use of external periodic driving sources, we demonstrate the possibility of controlling the coherent as well as the decoherent dynamics of a two-level atom placed in a lossy cavity. The control of the coherent dynamics is elucidated for the phenomenon of coherent destruction of tunneling (CDT), i.e., the coherent dynamics of a driven two-level atom in a quantum superposition state can be brought practically to a complete standstill. We study this phenomenon for different initial preparations of the two-level atom. We then proceed to investigate the decoherence originating from the interaction of the two-level atom with a lossy cavity mode. The loss mechanism is described in terms of a microscopic model that couples the cavity mode to a bath of harmonic field modes. A suitably tuned external cw-laser field applied to the two-level atom slows down considerably the decoherence of the atom. We demonstrate the suppression of decoherence for two opposite initial preparations of the atomic state: a quantum superposition state as well as the ground state. These findings can be used to the effect of a proficient battling of decoherence in qubit manipulation processes.

id: quant-ph/0003030
title: Fermi gas in harmonic oscillator potentials
authors: X.X.Yi, J.C.Su
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, LATEX
journal: Physica Scripta, 60(1999)117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003030
abstract: Assuming the validity of grand canonical statistics, we study the properties of a spin-polarized Fermi gas in harmonic traps. Universal forms of Fermi temperature $T_F$, internal energy $U$ and the specific heat per particle of the trapped Fermi gas are calculated as a {\it function} of particle number, and the results compared with those of infinite number particles.

id: quant-ph/0003031
title: Silicon-based Quantum Computation
authors: B. E. Kane
comments: Submitted to Fortschritte der Physik Special Issue on Experimental Proposals for Quantum Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003031
abstract: An architecture for a quantum computer is presented in which spins associated with donors in silicon function as qubits. Quantum operations on the spins are performed using a combination of voltages applied to gates adjacent to the spins and radio frequency applied magnetic fields resonant with spin transitions. Initialization and measurement of electron spins is made by electrostatic probing of a two electron system, whose orbital configuration must depend on the spin states of the electrons because of the Pauli Principle. Specific devices will be discussed which perform all the necessary operations for quantum computing, with an emphasis placed on the qualitative principles underlying their operation. The likely impediments to achieving large-scale quantum computation using this architecture will be addressed: the computer must operate at extremely low temperature, must be fabricated from devices built with near atomic precision, and will require extremely accurate gating operations in order to perform quantum logic. Refinements to the computer architecture will be presented which could remedy each of these deficiencies. I will conclude by discussing a specific realization of the computer using Si/SiGe heterostructures into which donors are deposited using a low energy focused ion beam.

id: quant-ph/0003032
title: Structure of the Algebra of Effective Observables in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Robert Olkiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003032
abstract: A subclass of dynamical semigroups induced by the interaction of a quantum system with an environment is introduced. Such semigroups lead to the selection of a stable subalgebra of effective observables. The structure of this subalgebra is completely determined.

id: quant-ph/0003033
title: Measurements of Nondegenerate Discrete Observables
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 25 pages, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62 (2000) 062101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003033
abstract: Every measurement on a quantum system causes a state change from the system state just before the measurement to the system state just after the measurement conditional upon the outcome of measurement. This paper determines all the possible conditional state changes caused by measurements of nondegenerate discrete observables. For this purpose, the following conditions are shown to be equivalent for measurements of nondegenerate discrete observables: (i) The joint probability distribution of the outcomes of successive measurements depends affinely on the initial state. (ii) The apparatus has an indirect measurement model. (iii) The state change is described by a positive superoperator valued measure. (iv) The state change is described by a completely positive superoperator valued measure. (v) The output state is independent of the input state and the family of output states can be arbitrarily chosen by the choice of the apparatus. The implications to the measurement problem are discussed briefly.

id: quant-ph/0003034
title: Resonant cancellation of off-resonant effects in a multilevel qubit
authors: Lin Tian, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003034
abstract: Off-resonant effects are a significant source of error in quantum computation. This paper presents a group theoretic proof that off-resonant transitions to the higher levels of a multilevel qubit can be completely prevented in principle. This result can be generalized to prevent unwanted transitions due to qubit-qubit interactions. A simple scheme exploiting dynamic pulse control techniques is presented that can cancel transitions to higher states to arbitrary accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0003035
title: One Complexity Theorist's View of Quantum Computing
authors: Lance Fortnow
comments: 13 pages. Based on a talk presented at the Second Workshop on Algorithms in Quantum Information Processing at DePaul University, Chicago, January 21, 1999
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003035
abstract: The complexity of quantum computation remains poorly understood. While physicists attempt to find ways to create quantum computers, we still do not have much evidence one way or the other as to how useful these machines will be. The tools of computational complexity theory should come to bear on these important questions. Quantum computing often scares away many potential researchers from computer science because of the apparent background need in quantum mechanics and the alien looking notation used in papers on the topic. This paper will give an overview of quantum computation from the point of view of a complexity theorist. We will see that one can think of BQP as yet another complexity class and study its power without focusing on the physical aspects behind it.

id: quant-ph/0003036
title: Comment on `Quantum Games and Quantum Strategies'
authors: Simon C. Benjamin, Patrick M. Hayden
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure. Please address correspondence to s.benjamin@qubit.org
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87(6):069801, 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003036
abstract: In a recent paper, Eisert et al. presented a quantum mechanical generalization of Prisoner's Dilemma. They asserted that the maximally entangled game exhibits a unique Nash equilibrium which yields a pay-off equivalent to cooperative behaviour. In this comment we show that their observation is incorrect: there is no Nash equilibrium in the space of deterministic quantum strategies.

id: quant-ph/0003037
title: An Experiment to Distinguish Between de Broglie-Bohm and Standard Quantum Mechanics
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: This paper which uses plane waves, a technical defect, is superceded by a more comprehensive paper quant-ph/0103126
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003037
abstract: An experiment is suggested that is capable of distinguishing between the de Broglie-Bohm theory and standard quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0003038
title: On the Additivity of the Entanglement of Formation
authors: Barbara M. Terhal
comments: Withdrawn and 'replaced' with quant-ph/0005062
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003038
abstract: We withdraw this paper due to insufficient arguments in the derivation of Theorem 1. See quant-ph/0005062 for the new paper

id: quant-ph/0003039
title: Perturbative expansion for master equation and it applications
authors: X.X.Yi, C.Li, J.C.Su
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 62(2000) 013819
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003039
abstract: We construct generally applicable small-loss rate expansions for the density operator of an open system. Successive terms of those expansions yield characteristic loss rates for dissipation processes. Three applications are presented in order to give further insight into the context of those expansions. The first application, of a two-level atom coupling to a bosonic environment, shows the procedure and the advantage of the expansion, whereas the second application that consists of a single mode field in a cavity with linewidth $\kappa$ due to partial transmission through one mirror illustrates a practical use of those expansions in quantum measurements, and the third one, for an atom coupled to modes of a lossy cavity shows the another use of the perturbative expansion.

id: quant-ph/0003040
title: Unified approach to quantum capacities: towards quantum noisy coding theorem
authors: Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003040
abstract: Basing on unified approach to {\it all} kinds of quantum capacities we show that the rate of quantum information transmission is bounded by the maximal attainable rate of coherent information. Moreover, we show that, if for any bipartite state the one-way distillable entanglement is no less than coherent information, then one obtains Shannon-like formulas for all the capacities. The inequality also implies that the decrease of distillable entanglement due to mixing process does not exceed of corresponding loss information about a system.

id: quant-ph/0003041
title: Consistent histories, the quantum Zeno effect, and time of arrival
authors: I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032103 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003041
abstract: We present a decomposition of the general quantum mechanical evolution operator, that corresponds to the path decomposition expansion, and interpret its constituents in terms of the quantum Zeno effect (QZE). This decomposition is applied to a finite dimensional example and to the case of a free particle in the real line, where the possibility of boundary conditions more general than those hitherto considered in the literature is shown. We reinterpret the assignment of consistent probabilities to different regions of spacetime in terms of the QZE. The comparison of the approach of consistent histories to the problem of time of arrival with the solution provided by the probability distribution of Kijowski shows the strength of the latter point of view.

id: quant-ph/0003042
title: Formation of ultrashort pulses with sub-Poissonian photon statistics
authors: F. Popescu, A. S. Chirkin
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX, 3 .eps figures
journal: Quantum Electronics, 26 No. 7, 61 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003042
abstract: A simple method for the production of ultrashort light pulses (USPs) with suppressed photon fluctuations is considered. The method is based on self-phase modulation (SPM) of an USP in a nonlinear medium (optical fibre) and subsequent transmission of pulse through a dispersive optical element.

id: quant-ph/0003043
title: The Haroche-Ramsey experiment as a generalized measurement
authors: W.M. de Muynck, A.J.A. Hendrikx
comments: REVTeX, 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 63 042114 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003043
abstract: A number of atomic beam experiments, related to the Ramsey experiment and a recent experiment by Brune et al., are studied with respect to the question of complementarity. Three different procedures for obtaining information on the state of the incoming atom are compared. Positive operator-valued measures are explicitly calculated. It is demonstrated that, in principle, it is possible to choose the experimental arrangement so as to admit an interpretation as a joint non-ideal measurement yielding interference and ``which-way'' information. Comparison of the different measurements gives insight into the question of which information is provided by a (generalized) quantum mechanical measurement. For this purpose the subspaces of Hilbert-Schmidt space, spanned by the operators of the POVM, are determined for different measurement arrangements and different values of the parameters.

id: quant-ph/0003044
title: Interferometers and Decoherence Matrices
authors: D. Han, Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: RevTex 14 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. E61 (2000) 5907-5913
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003044
abstract: It is shown that the Lorentz group is the natural language for two-beam interferometers if there are no decoherence effects. This aspect of the interferometer can be translated into six-parameter representations of the Lorentz group, as in the case of polarization optics where there are two orthogonal components of one light beam. It is shown that there are groups of transformations which leave the coherency or density matrix invariant, and this symmetry property is formulated within the framework of Wigner's little groups. An additional mathematical apparatus is needed for the transition from a pure state to an impure state. Decoherence matrices are constructed for this process, and their properties are studied in detail. Experimental tests of this symmetry property are possible.

id: quant-ph/0003045
title: About the Dirac Equation with a $¦Ä$ potential
authors: R. Benguria, H. Castillo, M. Loewe
comments: 8 pages, 1 postscript figure, Latex, Revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003045
abstract: An elementary treatment of the Dirac Equation in the presence of a three-dimensional spherically symmetric $\delta (r-r_0)$-potential is presented. We show how to handle the matching conditions in the configuration space, and discuss the occurrence of supercritical effects.

id: quant-ph/0003046
title: Strict Holism in a Quantum Superposition of Macroscopic States
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, Patrick Suppes
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX (RevTex 4), no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003046
abstract: We show that some N-particle quantum systems are holistic, such that the system is deterministic, whereas its parts are random. The total correlation is not sufficient to determine the probability distribution, showing a need for extra measurements. We propose a formal definition of holism not based on separability.

id: quant-ph/0003047
title: Indistinguishability and nonlocality in Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment
authors: Adonai S. Sant'Anna
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003047
abstract: Quasi-set theory allows us a non trivial relation between indistinguishability and nonlocality into the context of Einstein- Podolsky-Rosen experiment. Quasi-set theory is a set theory which provides a manner for dealing with collections of indistinguishable but not identical elementary particles.

id: quant-ph/0003048
title: On a quantum version of Shannon's conditional entropy
authors: Robert Schrader
comments: 17 pages of latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003048
abstract: In this article we propose a quantum version of Shannon's conditional entropy. Given two density matrices $\rho$ and $\sigma$ on a finite dimensional Hilbert space and with $S(\rho)=-\tr\rho\ln\rho$ being the usual von Neumann entropy, this quantity $S(\rho|\sigma)$ is concave in $\rho$ and satisfies $0\le S(\rho|\sigma)\le S(\rho)$, a quantum analogue of Shannon's famous inequality. Thus we view $S(\rho|\sigma)$ as the entropy of $\rho$ conditioned by $\sigma$.

id: quant-ph/0003049
title: Berry's Phase in the Presence of a Dissipative Medium
authors: K.M. Fonseca Romero, A.C. Aguiar Pinto, M. T. Thomaz
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica {\bf A307} (2002) 142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003049
abstract: We consider the spin 1/2 model coupled to a slowly varying magnetic field in the presence of a weak damping represented by a Lindblad-form operators. We show that Berry's geometrical phase remains unaltered by the two dissipation mechanism considered. Dissipation effects are twofold: a shrinking in the modulus of the Bloch's vector, which characterizes coherence loss and a time dependent (dissipation related) precession angle. We show that the line broadening of the Fourier transformation of the components of magnetization is only due to the presence of dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0003050
title: Generalized Schmidt decomposition and classification of three-quantum-bit states
authors: A. Acin, A. Andrianov, L. Costa, E. Jane, J.I. Latorre, R. Tarrach
comments: 4 pages, Revtex. Published version, minor changes and new references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 1560
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003050
abstract: We prove for any pure three-quantum-bit state the existence of local bases which allow to build a set of five orthogonal product states in terms of which the state can be written in a unique form. This leads to a canonical form which generalizes the two-quantum-bit Schmidt decomposition. It is uniquely characterized by the five entanglement parameters. It leads to a complete classification of the three-quantum-bit states. It shows that the right outcome of an adequate local measurement always erases all entanglement between the other two parties.

id: quant-ph/0003051
title: Decoherence and Measurement in Open Quantum Systems
authors: Vladimir Privman, Dima Mozyrsky
comments: 12 pages in LaTeX, requires the spie.sty style file
journal: Proc. SPIE 4047, 36-47 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003051
abstract: We review results of a recently developed model of a microscopic quantum system interacting with the macroscopic world components which are modeled by collections of bosonic modes. The interaction is via a general operator $\Lambda$ of the system, coupled to the creation and annihilation operators of the environment modes. We assume that in the process of a nearly instantaneous quantum measurement, the function of the environment involves two distinct parts: the pointer and the bath. Interaction of the system with the bath leads to decoherence such that the system and the pointer both evolve into a statistical mixture state described by the density matrix such that the system is in one of the eigenstates of $\Lambda$ with the correct quantum mechanical probability, whereas the expectation values of pointer operators retain amplified information on that eigenstate. We argue that this process represents the initial step of a quantum measurement. Calculation of the elements of the reduced density matrix of the system and pointer is carried out exactly, and time dependence of decoherence is identified. We discuss general implications of our model of energy-conserving coupling to a heat bath for processes of adiabatic quantum decoherence. We also evaluate changes in the expectation values of certain pointer operators and suggest that these can be interpreted as macroscopic indicators of the measurement outcome.

id: quant-ph/0003052
title: Single Atoms in an Optical Dipole Trap: Towards a Deterministic Source of Cold Atoms
authors: D. Frese, B. Ueberholz, S. Kuhr, W. Alt, D. Schrader, V. Gomer, D. Meschede
comments: LaTeX 2e, 4 pages, 5 Postscript figures, revised version for publication in PRL. One figure changed for greater clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3777 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003052
abstract: We describe a simple experimental technique which allows us to store a small and deterministic number of neutral atoms in an optical dipole trap. The desired atom number is prepared in a magneto-optical trap overlapped with a single focused Nd:YAG laser beam. Dipole trap loading efficiency of 100 % and storage times of about one minute have been achieved. We have also prepared atoms in a certain hyperfine state and demonstrated the feasibility of a state-selective detection via resonance fluorescence at the level of a few neutral atoms. A spin relaxation time of the polarized sample of $4.2\pm 0.7$ s has been measured. Possible applications are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0003053
title: Fidelity and information in the quantum teleportation of continuous variables
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Toshiki Ide, Takayoshi Kobayashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 10 pages, including one figure, minor clarifications and added reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 062304 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003053
abstract: Ideally, quantum teleportation should transfer a quantum state without distortion and without providing any information about that state. However, quantum teleportation of continuous electromagnetic field variables introduces additional noise, limiting the fidelity of the quantum state transfer. In this article, the operator describing the quantum state transfer is derived. The transfer operator modifies the probability amplitudes of the quantum state in a shifted photon number base by enhancing low photon numbers and suppressing high photon numbers. This modification of the statistical weight corresponds to a measurement of finite resolution performed on the original quantum state. The limited fidelity of quantum teleportation is thus shown to be a direct consequence of the information obtained in the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0003054
title: Information transfer and fidelity in quantum copiers
authors: P. Deuar, W. J. Munro
comments: 14 pages, 3 Figures, REVTeX. Accepted Physical Review A. Corrected minor grammatical errors
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 61, 062304 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003054
abstract: We find that very different quantum copying machines are optimal depending on the indicator used to assess their performance. Several quantum copying machine models acting on non-orthogonal input states are investigated, and assessed according to two types of criteria: Transfer of (Shannon) information encoded in the initial states to the copies, and fidelity between the copies and the initial states. Transformations which optimise information transfer for messages encoded in qubits are found. If the message is decoded one symbol at-a-time, information is best copied by a Wootters-Zurek copier.

id: quant-ph/0003055
title: Entangled States of N Identical Particles
authors: Jagdish Rai, Suranjana Rai
comments: 11 pages, typed in ms-word 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003055
abstract: We explore the connection between quantum entanglement and the exchange symmetry of the states of N identical particles. Each particle has n-levels. The N particles span the nN dimensional Hilbert space. We shall call the general state of the particle as a qunit. The direct product of the N qunit space is given a decomposition in terms of states with definite permutation symmetry that are found to have a measure of entanglement which is related to the representation of the permutation group. The maximally entangled states are generated from the linear combinations of fully correlated but unentangled states. The states of lower entanglement are generated from the manifold of partially correlated states. The degree of exchange symmetry is found to be related to a group theoretical measure of entanglement. Email: Jagdish_Rai@hotmail.com, jrai@iitk.ac.in Email: srai56@hotmail.com

id: quant-ph/0003056
title: Derivation of Standard Treatment of Spin Addition From Probability Amplitudes
authors: Habatwa Vincent Mweene
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003056
abstract: In a recent paper, we introduced a new way of treating systems of compounded angular momentum. We obtained the probability amplitudes for measurements on the systems and used these to derive the matrix treatment of compounded spin. However, the matrix forms are in 3- and 4- dimensional space and are therefore entirely different from the standard forms. This raises the question of the connection between these forms and the standard forms. In this paper, we answer this question. We not only derive the standard matrix treatment of spin addition - we discover a more generalized form of the theory. We apply the new generalized theory to the singlet and triplet states arising from the addition of the spins of two systems of spin 1/2 each. We obtain new generalized forms of the vectors and operators for these cases, and show that they reduce to the standard forms in the appropriate limit.

id: quant-ph/0003057
title: Bell's Theorem and Nonlinear Systems
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: Accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters. 14 pages, no figures. In the Appendix (not included in the EPL version) the author says what he really thinks about the subject
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003057
abstract: For all Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type experiments on deterministic systems the Bell inequality holds, unless non-local interactions exist between certain parts of the setup. Here we show that in nonlinear systems the Bell inequality can be violated by non-local effects that are arbitrarily weak. Then we show that the quantum result of the existing Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type experiments can be reproduced within deterministic models that include arbitrarily weak non-local effects.

id: quant-ph/0003058
title: Local and Nonlocal Properties of Werner States
authors: Tohya Hiroshima, Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 044302 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003058
abstract: We consider a special kind of mixed states -- a {\it Werner derivative}, which is the state transformed by nonlocal unitary -- local or nonlocal -- operations from a Werner state. We show the followings. (i) The amount of entanglement of Werner derivatives cannot exceed that of the original Werner state. (ii) Although it is generally possible to increase the entanglement of a single copy of a Werner derivative by LQCC, the maximal possible entanglement cannot exceed the entanglement of the original Werner state. The extractable entanglement of Werner derivatives is limited by the entanglement of the original Werner state.

id: quant-ph/0003059
title: Optimal Encryption of Quantum Bits
authors: P. Oscar Boykin, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX. Replacement fixes incorrect reference [15], otherwise identical
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 042317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003059
abstract: We characterize the complete set of protocols that may be used to securely encrypt n quantum bits using secret and random classical bits. In addition to the application of such quantum encryption protocols to quantum data security, our framework allows for generalizations of many classical cryptographic protocols to quantum data. We show that the encrypted state gives no information without the secret classical data, and that 2n random classical bits are the minimum necessary for informationally secure quantum encryption. Moreover, the quantum operations are shown to have a surprising structure in a canonical inner product space. This quantum encryption protocol is a generalization of the classical one time pad concept. A connection is made between quantum encryption and quantum teleportation, and this allows for a new proof of optimality of teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0003060
title: Partial Teleportation of Entanglement in the Noisy Environment
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim, Y. J. Park, S. Lee
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003060
abstract: Partial teleportation of entanglement is to teleport one particle of an entangled pair through a quantum channel. This is conceptually equivalent to quantum swapping. We consider the partial teleportation of entanglement in the noisy environment, employing the Werner-state representation of the noisy channel for the simplicity of calculation. To have the insight of the many-body teleportation, we introduce the measure of correlation information and study the transfer of the correlation information and entanglement. We find that the fidelity gets smaller as the initial-state is entangled more for a given entanglement of the quantum channel. The entangled channel transfers at least some of the entanglement to the final state.

id: quant-ph/0003061
title: Measurements in quantum physics: towards a physical picture of relevant processes
authors: W.A. Hofer
comments: RevTeX (single column, 14 pages) with 4 figures (eps). Talk given at the VIth Wigner Symposium, August 16 - 20 (1999) in Istanbul, Turkey. For related papers see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003061
abstract: We propose a new structure of ensembles in quantum theory, based on the recently introduced intrinsic properties of electrons and photons. On this statistical basis the spreading of a wave-packet, collapse of the wave function, the quantum eraser, and interaction-free measurements are re-analyzed and the usual conceptual problems removed.

id: quant-ph/0003062
title: Entanglement and Collective Quantum Operations
authors: Anthony Chefles, Claire R. Gilson, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003062
abstract: We show how shared entanglement, together with classical communication and local quantum operations, can be used to perform an arbitrary collective quantum operation upon N spatially-separated qubits. A simple teleportation-based protocol for achieving this, which requires 2(N-1) ebits of shared, bipartite entanglement and 4(N-1) classical bits, is proposed. In terms of the total required entanglement, this protocol is shown to be optimal for even N in both the asymptotic limit and for `one-shot' applications.

id: quant-ph/0003063
title: The Representation of Natural Numbers in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: Much rewrite, including response to comments. To Appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A63, 032305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003063
abstract: This paper represents one approach to making explicit some of the assumptions and conditions implied in the widespread representation of numbers by composite quantum systems. Any nonempty set and associated operations is a set of natural numbers or a model of arithmetic if the set and operations satisfy the axioms of number theory or arithmetic. This work is limited to k-ary representations of length L and to the axioms for arithmetic modulo k^{L}. A model of the axioms is described based on states in and operators on an abstract L fold tensor product Hilbert space H^{arith}. Unitary maps of this space onto a physical parameter based product space H^{phy} are then described. Each of these maps makes states in H^{phy}, and the induced operators, a model of the axioms. Consequences of the existence of many of these maps are discussed along with the dependence of Grover's and Shor's Algorithms on these maps. The importance of the main physical requirement, that the basic arithmetic operations are efficiently implementable, is discussed. This conditions states that there exist physically realizable Hamiltonians that can implement the basic arithmetic operations and that the space-time and thermodynamic resources required are polynomial in L.

id: quant-ph/0003064
title: From Einstein Nonlocality to Von Neumann Reality
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: Available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003064
abstract: Recent nonlocality results support a new picture of reality built on the ideas of John von Neumanm

id: quant-ph/0003065
title: Decoherence, Quantum Zeno Effect, and the Efficacy of Mental Effort
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003065
abstract: Recent theoretical and experimental papers support the prevailing opinion that large warm systems will rapidly lose quantum coherence, and that classical properties will emerge. This rapid loss of coherence would naturally be expected to block any critical role for quantum theory in explaining the interaction between our conscious experiences and the physical activities of our brains. However, there is a quantum theory of mind in which the efficacy of mental effort is not affected by decoherence effects. In this theory the effects of mental action on brain activity is achieved by a Quantum Zeno Effect that is not weakened by decoherence. The theory is based on a relativistic version of von Neumann's quantum theory. It encompasses all the predictions of Copenhagen quantum theory, which include all the validated predictions of classical physical theory. In addition, it forges two-way dynamical links between the physical and experiential aspects of nature. The theory has significant explanatory power.

id: quant-ph/0003066
title: Functional relations in Stokes multipliers - Fun with $x^6 + ¦Áx^2$ potential-
authors: J. Suzuki
comments: 18 pages, minor corrections, references added
journal: J.Statist.Phys. 102 (2001) 1029-1047
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003066
abstract: We consider eigenvalue problems in quantum mechanics in one dimension. Hamiltonians contain a class of double well potential terms, x^6 + \alpha x^2, for example . The space coordinate is continued to a complex plane and the connection problem of fundamental system of solutions is considered. A hidden U_q(\hat{gl}(2|1)) structure arises in "fusion relations" of Stokes multipliers. With this observation, we derive coupled nonlinear integral equations which characterize the spectral properties of both \pm \alpha potentials simultaneously. equations.

id: quant-ph/0003067
title: Correlations of measurement information and noise in quantum measurements with finite resolution
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Takayoshi Kobayashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 14 pages including 4 figures, contribution to the proceedings of the RIMS symposium on analytical studies of Quantum Information and Related Fields, held January 2000 in Kyoto
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003067
abstract: The original purpose of measurements is to provide us with information about a previously unknown physical property of the system observed. In the Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics, this physical meaning of measurement information is not immediately apparent. In order to study the relationship between the Hilbert space coherence of the quantum state and the measurement information obtained in the laboratory, we introduce a generalized measurement postulate for finite resolution measurements. With this measurement model, correlations between non-commuting observables can be investigated. These experimentally accessible correlations reveal nonclassical features in their dependence on the operator ordering, reflecting the particular measurement context by which they are determined.

id: quant-ph/0003068
title: Universal construction of unitary transformation of quantum computation with one- and two-body interactions
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 18 pages and 1 PS figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003068
abstract: Any unitary transformation of quantum computational networks is explicitly decomposed, in an exact and unified form, into a sequence of a limited number of one-qubit quantum gates and the two-qubit diagonal gates that have diagonal unitary representation in usual computational basis. This decomposition may be simplified greatly with the help of the properties of the finite-dimensional multiple-quantum operator algebra spaces of a quantum system and the specific properties of a given quantum algorithm. As elementary building blocks of quantum computation, the two-qubit diagonal gates and one-qubit gates may be constructed physically with one- and two-body interactions in a two-state quantum system and hence could be conveniently realized experimentally. The present work will be helpful for implementing generally any N-qubit quantum computation in those feasible two-state quantum systems and determining conveniently the time evolution of these systems in course of quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0003069
title: Duality and Anholonomy in Quantum Mechanics of 1D Contact Interactions
authors: Izumi Tsutsui, Tamas Fulop, Taksu Cheon
comments: 4 pages ReVTeX with 4 epsf figures. KEK preprint 2000-3. Correction in Eq.(14)
journal: Jour. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 69 (2000) 3473
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003069
abstract: We study systems with parity invariant contact interactions in one dimension. The model analyzed is the simplest nontrivial one --- a quantum wire with a point defect --- and yet is shown to exhibit exotic phenomena, such as strong vs weak coupling duality and spiral anholonomy in the spectral flow. The structure underlying these phenomena is SU(2), which arises as accidental symmetry for a particular class of interactions.

id: quant-ph/0003070
title: All Teleportation and Dense Coding Schemes
authors: R. F. Werner
comments: 21 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003070
abstract: We establish a one-to-one correspondence between (1) quantum teleportation schemes, (2) dense coding schemes, (3) orthonormal bases of maximally entangled vectors, (4) orthonormal bases of unitary operators with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt scalar product, and (5) depolarizing operations, whose Kraus operators can be chosen to be unitary. The teleportation and dense coding schemes are assumed to be ``tight'' in the sense that all Hilbert spaces involved have the same finite dimension d, and the classical channel involved distinguishes d^2 signals. A general construction procedure for orthonormal bases of unitaries, involving Latin Squares and complex Hadamard Matrices is also presented.

id: quant-ph/0003071
title: Reply to a review of photon-exchange interactions by Opatrny and Kurizki
authors: J. D. Franson
comments: Submitted to the Fortschritte der Physik special issue on experimental proposals for quantum computers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003071
abstract: In a recent review article, Opatrny and Kurizki [submitted to Fortschr. Phys., e-print quant-ph/0003010] discussed a number of issues related to the feasibility of quantum computation based on photon-exchange interactions. This Reply summarizes my view of each of the issues and the overall prospects for quantum computing based on photon-exchange interactions.

id: quant-ph/0003072
title: Communication Capacity of Quantum Computation
authors: S. Bose, L. Rallan, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 85, 5448 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003072
abstract: By considering quantum computation as a communication process, we relate its efficiency to a communication capacity. This formalism allows us to rederive lower bounds on the complexity of search algorithms. It also enables us to link the mixedness of a quantum computer to its efficiency. We discuss the implications of our results for quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0003073
title: Welcher Weg Experiments and the Orthodox Bohr's Complementarity Principle
authors: S. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003073
abstract: In its most orthodox form, Bohr's Complementarity Principle states that a quanton (a quantum system consisting of a Boson or Fermion) can either behave as a particle or as wave, but never simultaneosuly as both. A less orthodox interpretation of this Principle is the ``duality condition'' embodied in a mathematical inequality due to Englert [B-G Englert, Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 77, 2154 (1996)] which allows wave and particle attributes to co-exist, but postulates that a stronger manifestation of the particle nature leads to a weaker manifestation of the wave nature and vice versa. In this Letter, we show that some recent {\it welcher weg} ("which path") experiments in interferometers and similar set-ups, that claim to have validated, or invalidated, the Complementarity Principle, actually shed no light on the orthodox interpretation. They may have instead validated the weaker duality condition, but even that is not completely obvious. We propose simple modifications to these experiments which we believe can test the orthodox Complementarity Principle and also shed light on the nature of wavefunction collapse and quantum erasure.

id: quant-ph/0003074
title: On the nature of continuous physical quantities in classical and quantum mechanics
authors: Hans Halvorson
comments: 26 pages, LaTeX
journal: Journal of Philosophical Logic 30, 27-50 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003074
abstract: Within the traditional Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics, it is not possible to describe a particle as possessing, simultaneously, a sharp position value and a sharp momentum value. Is it possible, though, to describe a particle as possessing just a sharp position value (or just a sharp momentum value)? Some, such as Teller (Journal of Philosophy, 1979), have thought that the answer to this question is No -- that the status of individual continuous quantities is very different in quantum mechanics than in classical mechanics. On the contrary, I shall show that the same subtle issues arise with respect to continuous quantities in classical and quantum mechanics; and that it is, after all, possible to describe a particle as possessing a sharp position value without altering the standard formalism of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0003075
title: Causality, delocalization and positivity of energy
authors: E. Karpov, G. Ordonez, T. Petrosky, I. Prigogine, G. Pronko
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003075
abstract: In a series of interesting papers G. C. Hegerfeldt has shown that quantum systems with positive energy initially localized in a finite region, immediately develop infinite tails. In our paper Hegerfeldt's theorem is analysed using quantum and classical wave packets. We show that Hegerfeldt's conclusion remains valid in classical physics. No violation of Einstein's causality is ever involved. Using only positive frequencies, complex wave packets are constructed which at $t = 0$ are real and finitely localized and which, furthemore, are superpositions of two nonlocal wave packets. The nonlocality is initially cancelled by destructive interference. However this cancellation becomes incomplete at arbitrary times immediately afterwards. In agreement with relativity the two nonlocal wave packets move with the velocity of light, in opposite directions.

id: quant-ph/0003076
title: A Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy Quantum Computer with Tellurium Donors in Silicon
authors: G.P. Berman, G.D. Doolen, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003076
abstract: We propose a magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM)-based nuclear spin quantum computer using tellurium impurities in silicon. This approach to quantum computing combines the well-developed silicon technology with expected advances in MRFM.

id: quant-ph/0003077
title: Dynamics of Nonlocality for A Two-Mode Squeezed State in Thermal Environment
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 61, 052101 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003077
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of nonlocality for a two-mode squeezed state in the thermal environment. The initial two-mode pure squeezed state is nonlocal with a stronger nonlocality for a larger degree of squeezing. It is found that the larger the degree of initial squeezing is, the more rapidly the squeezed state loses its nonlocality. We explain this by the rapid destruction of quantum coherence for the strongly squeezed state.

id: quant-ph/0003078
title: Transfer of nonclassical features in quantum teleportation via a mixed quantum channel
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032305 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003078
abstract: Quantum teleportation of a continuous-variable state is studied for the quantum channel of a two-mode squeezed vacuum influenced by a thermal environment. Each mode of the squeezed vacuum is assumed to undergo the same thermal influence. It is found that when the mixed two-mode squeezed vacuum for the quantum channel is separable, any nonclassical features, which may be imposed in an original unknown state, cannot be transferred to a receiving station. A two-mode Gaussian state, one of which is a mixed two-mode squeezed vacuum, is separable if and only if a positive well-defined $P$ function can be assigned to it. The fidelity of teleportation is considered in terms of the noise factor given by the imperfect channel. It is found that quantum teleportation may give more noise than direct transmission of a field under the thermal environment, which is due to the fragile nature of quantum entanglement of the quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0003079
title: Subnormal operators regarded as generalized observables and compound-system-type normal extension related to su(1,1)
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Fuminori Sakaguchi
comments: LaTeX with iopart.cls, iopart12.clo, iopams.sty, The previous version has some mistakes
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, Vol.33, No.43, pp.7793-7820 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003079
abstract: In this paper, subnormal operators, not necessarily bounded, are discussed as generalized observables. In order to describe not only the information about the probability distribution of the output data of their measurement but also a framework of their implementations, we introduce a new concept compound-system-type normal extension, and we derive the compound-system-type normal extension of a subnormal operator, which is defined from an irreducible unitary representation of the algebra su(1,1). The squeezed states are characterized as the eigenvectors of an operator from this viewpoint, and the squeezed states in multi-particle systems are shown to be the eigenvectors of the adjoints of these subnormal operators under a representation. The affine coherent states are discussed in the same context, as well.

id: quant-ph/0003080
title: The f-conditioned Phase Transform
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jinsoo Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003080
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm for the f-conditioned phase transform which does not require any initialization of ancillary register. We also develop a quantum algorithm that can solve the generalized Deutsch-Jozsa problem by a single evaluation of a function.

id: quant-ph/0003081
title: The Coulomb - harmonic oscillator correspondence in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: M. Znojil, G. Levai
comments: Latex, 11 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 271 (2000) 327 - 333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003081
abstract: We show that and how the Coulomb potential can be regularized and solved exactly at the imaginary couplings. The new spectrum of energies is real and bounded as expected, but its explicit form proves totally different from the usual real-coupling case.

id: quant-ph/0003082
title: Complete quantum teleportation with a Kerr nonlinearity
authors: David Vitali, Mauro Fortunato, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, revtex, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 445 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003082
abstract: We present a scheme for the quantum teleportation of the polarization state of a photon employing a cross-Kerr medium. The experimental feasibility of the scheme is discussed and we show that, using the recently demonstrated ultraslow light propagation in cold atomic media, our proposal can be realized with presently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0003083
title: Nonlinear gauge interactions - A solution to the "measurement problem" in quantum mechanics?
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003083
abstract: We propose that the mechanism responsible for the ``collapse of the wave function" (or "decoherence" in its broadest meaning) in quantum mechanics is the nonlinearities already present in the theory via nonabelian gauge interactions. Unlike all other models of spontaneous collapse, our proposal is, to the best of our knowledge, the only one which does not introduce any new elements into the theory. Indeed, unless the gauge interaction nonlinearities are not used for exactly this purpose, one must then explain why the violation of the superposition principle which they introduce does not destroy quantum mechanics. A possible experimental test of the model would be to compare the coherence lengths for, e.g., electrons and photons in a double-slit experiment. The electrons should have a finite coherence length, while photons should have a much longer (in principle infinite) coherence length.

id: quant-ph/0003084
title: A quantum computer only needs one universe
authors: A. M. Steane
comments: 13 pages. The paper has undergone major changes, in order to stengthen the argument and cut extraneous material. Schrodinger's Cat has been cut. The "one-way computer" model is now included, and the other remarks tightened. A positive statement on what a QC is, as opposed to what it is not, is added
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Science B - Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 34(3):469-478 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003084
abstract: The nature of quantum computation is discussed. It is argued that, in terms of the amount of information manipulated in a given time, quantum and classical computation are equally efficient. Quantum superposition does not permit quantum computers to ``perform many computations simultaneously'' except in a highly qualified and to some extent misleading sense. Quantum computation is therefore not well described by interpretations of quantum mechanics which invoke the concept of vast numbers of parallel universes. Rather, entanglement makes available types of computation process which, while not exponentially larger than classical ones, are unavailable to classical systems. The essence of quantum computation is that it uses entanglement to generate and manipulate a physical representation of the correlations between logical entities, without the need to completely represent the logical entities themselves.

id: quant-ph/0003085
title: PT-symmetric sextic potentials
authors: B. Bagchi, F. Cannata, C. Quesne
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX with amssym, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 269 (2000) 79-82
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003085
abstract: The family of complex PT-symmetric sextic potentials is studied to show that for various cases the system is essentially quasi-solvable and possesses real, discrete energy eigenvalues. For a particular choice of parameters, we find that under supersymmetric transformations the underlying potential picks up a reflectionless part.

id: quant-ph/0003086
title: Planar Dirac Electron in Coulomb and Magnetic Fields
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, V.R. Khalilov
comments: 18 pages, RevTex, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A61 (2000) 032104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003086
abstract: The Dirac equation for an electron in two spatial dimensions in the Coulomb and homogeneous magnetic fields is discussed. For weak magnetic fields, the approximate energy values are obtained by semiclassical method. In the case with strong magnetic fields, we present the exact recursion relations that determine the coefficients of the series expansion of wave functions, the possible energies and the magnetic fields. It is found that analytic solutions are possible for a denumerably infinite set of magnetic field strengths. This system thus furnishes an example of the so-called quasi-exactly solvable models. A distinctive feature in the Dirac case is that, depending on the strength of the Coulomb field, not all total angular momentum quantum number allow exact solutions with wavefunctions in reasonable polynomial forms. Solutions in the nonrelativistic limit with both attractive and repulsive Coulomb fields are briefly discussed by means of the method of factorization.

id: quant-ph/0003087
title: Speed of ion trap quantum information processors
authors: A. Steane, C. F. Roos, D. Stevens, A. Mundt, D. Leibfried, F. Schmidt-Kaler, R. Blatt
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003087
abstract: We investigate theoretically the speed limit of quantum gate operations for ion trap quantum information processors. The proposed methods use laser pulses for quantum gates which entangle the electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom of the trapped ions. Two of these methods are studied in detail and for both of them the speed is limited by a combination of the recoil frequency of the relevant electronic transition, and the vibrational frequency in the trap. We have experimentally studied the gate operations below and above this speed limit. In the latter case, the fidelity is reduced, in agreement with our theoretical findings. // Changes: a) error in equ. 24 and table III repaired b) reference Jonathan et al, quant-ph/ 0002092, added (proposes fast quantum gates using the AC-Stark effect)

id: quant-ph/0003088
title: Line narrowing via cavity-induced quantum interference in a $¦®$-type atom
authors: Peng Zhou
comments: 3 pages, 3 postscript figures, to be appeared in Opt. Commun
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003088
abstract: We show that cavity-induced interference may result in spectral line narrowing in the absorption spectrum of a $\Xi$-type atom coupled to a single-mode, frequency-tunable cavity field with a pre-selected polarization at finite temperature.

id: quant-ph/0003089
title: Cavity induced modifications to the resonance fluorescence and probe absorption of a laser-dressed V atom
authors: Jin-Sheng Peng, Gao-Xiang Li, Peng Zhou, S. Swain
comments: 12 pages, 10 postscript figures, to be appeared in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003089
abstract: A cavity-modified master equation is derived for a coherently driven, V-type three-level atom coupled to a single-mode cavity in the bad cavity limit. We show that population inversion in both the bare and dressed-state bases may be achieved, originating from the enhancement of the atom-cavity interaction when the cavity is resonant with an atomic dressed-state transition. The atomic populations in the dressed state representation are analysed in terms of the cavity-modified transition rates. The atomic fluorescence spectrum and probe absorption spectrum also investigated, and it is found that the spectral profiles may be controlled by adjusting the cavity frequency. Peak suppression and line narrowing occur under appropriate conditions.

id: quant-ph/0003090
title: Cavity implementation of quantum interference in a $¦«$-type atom
authors: Peng Zhou
comments: 2 postscript figures are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003090
abstract: A scheme for engineering quantum interference in a $\Lambda$-type atom coupled to a frequency-tunable, single-mode cavity field with a pre-selected polarization at finite temperature is proposed. Interference-assisted population trapping, population inversions and probe gain at one sideband of the Autler-Townes spectrum are predicted for certain cavity resonant frequencies.

id: quant-ph/0003091
title: Noncanonical quantum optics
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: Completely rewritten version of quant-ph/0002003v2. There are overlaps between the papers, but sections on perturbative calculations show the same problem from different sides, therefore quant-ph/0002003v2 is not replaced
journal: J.Phys.A33:8081-8104,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003091
abstract: Modification of the right-hand-side of canonical commutation relations (CCR) naturally occurs if one considers a harmonic oscillator with indefinite frequency. Quantization of electromagnetic field by means of such a non-CCR algebra naturally removes the infinite energy of vacuum but still results in a theory which is very similar to quantum electrodynamics. An analysis of perturbation theory shows that the non-canonical theory has an automatically built-in cut-off but requires charge/mass renormalization already at the nonrelativistic level. A simple rule allowing to compare perturbative predictions of canonical and non-canonical theories is given. The notion of a unique vacuum state is replaced by a set of different vacua. Multi-photon states are defined in the standard way but depend on the choice of vacuum. Making a simplified choice of the vacuum state we estimate corrections to atomic lifetimes, probabilities of multiphoton spontaneous and stimulated emission, and the Planck law. The results are practically identical to the standard ones. Two different candidates for a free-field Hamiltonian are compared.

id: quant-ph/0003092
title: Non-orthogonal preferred projectors for modal interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: R. W. Spekkens, J. E. Sipe
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003092
abstract: Modal interpretations constitute a particular approach to associating dynamical variables with physical systems in quantum mechanics. Given the `quantum logical' constraints that are typically adopted by such interpretations, only certain sets of variables can be taken to be simultaneously definite-valued, and only certain sets of values can be ascribed to these variables at a given time. Moreover, each allowable set of variables and values can be uniquely specified by a single `preferred' projector in the Hilbert space associated with the system. In general, the preferred projector can be one of several possibilities at a given time. In previous modal interpretations, the different possible preferred projectors have formed an orthogonal set. This paper investigates the consequences of adopting a non-orthogonal set. We present three contributions on this issue: (1) we provide an argument for such non-orthogonality, based on the assumption that perfectly predictable measurements reveal pre-existing values of variables, an assumption which has traditionally constituted a strong motivation for the modal approach; (2) we generalize the existing framework for modal interpretations to accommodate non-orthogonal preferred projectors; (3) we present a novel type of modal interpretation wherein the set of preferred projectors is fixed by a principle of entropy minimization, and we discuss some of the successes and shortcomings of this proposal.

id: quant-ph/0003093
title: Casimir and van der Waals force between two plates or a sphere (lens) above a plate made of real metals
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003093
abstract: The Casimir and van der Waals forces acting between two metallic plates or a sphere (lens) above a plate are calculated accounting for the finite conductivity of the metals. The simple formalism of surface modes is briefly presented which allows the possibility to obtain the generalization of Lifshitz results for the case of two semi-spaces covered by the thin layers. Additional clarifications of the regularization procedure provides the means to obtain reliable results not only for the force but also for the energy density. This, in turn, leads to the value of the force for the configuration of a sphere (lens) above a plate both of which are covered by additional layers. The Casimir interaction between Al and Au test bodies is recalculated using the optical tabulated data for the complex refractive index of these metals. The computations turn out to be in agreement with the perturbation theory up to the fourth order in relative penetration depth of electromagnetic zero point oscillations into the metal. The disagreements between the results recently presented in the literature are resolved. The Casimir force between Al bodies covered by the thin Au layers is computed and the possibility to neglect spatial dispersion effects is discussed as a function the layer thickness. The van der Waals force is calculated including the transition region to the Casimir force. The pure non-retarded van der Waals force law between Al and Au bodies is shown to be restricted to a very narrow distance interval from 0.5 nm to (2--4) nm. New, more exact, values of the Hamaker constant for Al and Au are determined.

id: quant-ph/0003094
title: Quantum Communication with Correlated Nonclassical States
authors: S. F. Pereira, Z. Y. Ou, H. J. Kimble
comments: 8 pages and 4 figures (Figure 1; Figures 2a, 2b; Figure 2)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003094
abstract: Nonclassical correlations between the quadrature-phase amplitudes of two spatially separated optical beams are exploited to realize a two-channel quantum communication experiment with a high degree of immunity to interception. For this scheme, either channel alone can have an arbitrarily small signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for transmission of a coherent ``message''. However, when the transmitted beams are combined properly upon authorized detection, the encoded message can in principle be recovered with the original SNR of the source. An experimental demonstration has achieved a 3.2 dB improvement in SNR over that possible with correlated classical sources. Extensions of the protocol to improve its security against eavesdropping are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0003095
title: Coordinate Independence of of Quantum-Mechanical Path Integrals
authors: H. Kleinert, A. Chervyakov
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper also at this http URL
journal: Phys. Lett. A 268, 63 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003095
abstract: We develop simple rules for performing integrals over products of distributions in coordinate space. Such products occur in perturbation expansions of path integrals in curvilinear coordinates, where the interactions contain terms of the form dot q^2 q^n, which give rise to highly singular Feynman integrals. The new rules ensure the invariance of perturbatively defined path integrals under coordinate transformations.

id: quant-ph/0003096
title: Ground state cooling, quantum state engineering and study of decoherence of ions in Paul traps
authors: F. Schmidt-Kaler, Ch. Roos, H. C. Naegerl, H. Rohde, S. Gulde, A. Mundt, M. Lederbauer, G. Thalhammer, Th. Zeiger, P. Barton, L. Hornekaer, G. Reymond, D. Leibfried, J. Eschner, R. Blatt
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, Special Issue on Quantum Optics: Kuehtai 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003096
abstract: We investigate single ions of $^{40}Ca^+$ in Paul traps for quantum information processing. Superpositions of the S$_{1/2}$ electronic ground state and the metastable D$_{5/2}$ state are used to implement a qubit. Laser light on the S$_{1/2} \leftrightarrow$ D$_{5/2}$ transition is used for the manipulation of the ion's quantum state. We apply sideband cooling to the ion and reach the ground state of vibration with up to 99.9% probability. Starting from this Fock state $|n=0>$, we demonstrate coherent quantum state manipulation. A large number of Rabi oscillations and a ms-coherence time is observed. Motional heating is measured to be as low as one vibrational quantum in 190 ms. We also report on ground state cooling of two ions.

id: quant-ph/0003097
title: Coherent Control of Magneto-optical Rotation
authors: Anil K. Patnaik, G. S. Agarwal
comments: paper withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003097
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by authors.

id: quant-ph/0003098
title: Comment on Mohrhoff's "What quantum mechanics is trying to tell us"
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: To appear in American Journal of Physics. This substantially revised version critically analyses the counterfactual usage of the ABL rule as advocated by Mohrhoff, with reference to similar ongoing claims by Vaidman
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003098
abstract: Mohrhoff proposes using the Aharonov-Bergmann-Lebowitz (ABL) rule for time-symmetric ``objective'' (meaning non-epistemic) probabilities corresponding to the possible outcomes of not-actually-performed measurements between specified pre- and post-selection measurement outcomes. It is emphasized that the ABL rule was formulated on the assumption that such intervening measurements are actually made and that it does not necessarily apply to counterfactual situations. The exact nature of the application of the ABL rule considered by Mohrhoff is made explicit and is shown to fall short of his stated counterfactual claim.

id: quant-ph/0003099
title: Improved two-party and multi-party purification protocols
authors: Elitza N. Maneva, John A. Smolin
comments: 10 pages AMS-TeX with eps figures, to be published in the AMS Contemporary Math Series volume entitled "Quantum Computation & Quantum Information Science."
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003099
abstract: We present an improved protocol for entanglement purification of bipartite mixed states using several states at a time rather than two at a time as in the traditional recurrence method. We also present a generalization of the hashing method to n-partite cat states, which achieves a finite yield of pure cat states for any desired fidelity. Our results are compared to previous protocols.

id: quant-ph/0003100
title: Exact Solutions of the two-dimensional Schr?dinger equation with certain central potentials
authors: Shi-Hai Dong
comments: Latex files and accepted by Inter. J. Theor. Phys. 39, No. 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003100
abstract: By applying an ansatz to the eigenfunction, an exact closed form solution of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in 2D is obtained with the potentials, $V(r)=ar^2+br^4+cr^6$, $V(r)=ar+br^2+cr^{-1}$ and $V(r)=ar^2+br^{-2}+cr^{-4}+dr^{-6}$, respectively. The restrictions on the parameters of the given potential and the angular momentum $m$ are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0003101
title: Private Quantum Channels and the Cost of Randomizing Quantum Information
authors: Michele Mosca, Alain Tapp, Ronald de Wolf
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages. Minor changes in the typesetting and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003101
abstract: We investigate how a classical private key can be used by two players, connected by an insecure one-way quantum channel, to perform private communication of quantum information. In particular we show that in order to transmit n qubits privately, 2n bits of shared private key are necessary and sufficient. This result may be viewed as the quantum analogue of the classical one-time pad encryption scheme. From the point of view of the eavesdropper, this encryption process can be seen as a randomization of the original state. We thus also obtain strict bounds on the amount of entropy necessary for randomizing n qubits.

id: quant-ph/0003102
title: Discussion: Are There Material Objects in Bohm's Theory
authors: Michael Dickson
comments: 13pp. A reply to Bedard (1999) Phil. Sci. 66:221
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003102
abstract: Bedard has argued that the 'minimalist' interpretation of Bohm's theory "do[es] not make sense", essentially because one cannot account for bonding properties in terms of particles cofigurations alone. I argue that while this point is correct, the minimalist interpretation never sought to provide such an explanation (nor is it incumbant upon this interpretation to do so).

id: quant-ph/0003103
title: Effectively classical quantum states for open systems
authors: Ph. Blanchard, R. Olkiewicz
comments: Latex File
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003103
abstract: Notions of robust and "classical" states for an open quantum system are introduced and discussed in the framework of the isometric-sweeping decomposition of trace class operators. Using the predictability sieve proposed by Zurek, ``quasi-classical'' states are defined. A number of examples illustrating how the ``quasi-classical'' states correspond to classical points in phase space connected with the measuring apparatus are presented.

id: quant-ph/0003104
title: Quantum authentication and key distribution using catalysis
authors: Jens G Jensen, Ruediger Schack
comments: 5 pages, revtex, some changes due to weaknesses of the original protocol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003104
abstract: Starting from Barnum's recent proposal to use entanglement and catalysis for quantum secure identification [quant-ph/9910072], we describe a protocol for quantum authentication and authenticated quantum key distribution. We argue that our scheme is secure even in the presence of an eavesdropper who has complete control over both classical and quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0003105
title: Quantum Fluctuations of a Single Trapped Atom: Transient Rabi Oscillations and Magnetic Bistability
authors: H. Schadwinkel, V. Gomer, U. Reiter, B. Ueberholz, D. Meschede
comments: LaTeX 2e, 14 pages, 7 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003105
abstract: Isolation of a single atomic particle and monitoring its resonance fluorescence is a powerful tool for studies of quantum effects in radiation-matter interaction. Here we present observations of quantum dynamics of an isolated neutral atom stored in a magneto-optical trap. By means of photon correlations in the atom's resonance fluorescence we demonstrate the well-known phenomenon of photon antibunching which corresponds to transient Rabi oscillations in the atom. Through polarization-sensitive photon correlations we show a novel example of resolved quantum fluctuations: spontaneous magnetic orientation of an atom. These effects can only be observed with a single atom.

id: quant-ph/0003106
title: Dyon-Oscillator Duality
authors: V. Ter-Antonyan
comments: 21 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003106
abstract: The dyon-oscillator duality presented in this lecture can be treated as a prototype of the Seiberg-Witten duality in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. The key statement declares that in some spatial dimensions the oscillator-like systems are dual to the atoms composed of the electrical charged particle and dyon, i.e., monopoles provided by both magnetic and electric charge.

id: quant-ph/0003107
title: Gauss Sums and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Vernon Armitage, Alice Rogers
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003107
abstract: By adapting Feynman's sum over paths method to a quantum mechanical system whose phase space is a torus, a new proof of the Landsberg-Schaar identity for quadratic Gauss sums is given. In contrast to existing non-elementary proofs, which use infinite sums and a limiting process or contour integration, only finite sums are involved. The toroidal nature of the classical phase space leads to discrete position and momentum, and hence discrete time. The corresponding `path integrals' are finite sums whose normalisations are derived and which are shown to intertwine cyclicity and discreteness to give a finite version of Kelvin's method of images.

id: quant-ph/0003108
title: Cutoff dependence of the Casimir effect
authors: C.R. Hagen
comments: 7 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C19:677-680,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003108
abstract: The problem of calculating the Casimir force on two conducting planes by means of the stress tensor is examined. The evaluation of this quantity is carried out using an explicit regularization procedure which has its origin in the underlying (2+1) dimensional Poincar\'{e} invariance of the system. The force between the planes is found to depend on the ratio of two independent cutoff parameters, thereby rendering any prediction for the Casimir effect an explicit function of the particular calculational scheme employed. Similar results are shown to obtain in the case of the conducting sphere.

id: quant-ph/0003109
title: Time discretization of functional integrals
authors: J. H. Samson
comments: 11 pages, to appear J Phys A: Math Gen. Uses iopart.cls
journal: J Phys A: Math Gen 33, 3111-3120 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003109
abstract: Numerical evaluation of functional integrals usually involves a finite (L-slice) discretization of the imaginary-time axis. In the auxiliary-field method, the L-slice approximant to the density matrix can be evaluated as a function of inverse temperature at any finite L as $\rho_L(\beta)=[\rho_1(\beta/L)]^L$, if the density matrix $\rho_1(\beta)$ in the static approximation is known. We investigate the convergence of the partition function $Z_L(\beta)=Tr\rho_L(\beta)$, the internal energy and the density of states $g_L(E)$ (the inverse Laplace transform of $Z_L$), as $L\to\infty$. For the simple harmonic oscillator, $g_L(E)$ is a normalized truncated Fourier series for the exact density of states. When the auxiliary-field approach is applied to spin systems, approximants to the density of states and heat capacity can be negative. Approximants to the density matrix for a spin-1/2 dimer are found in closed form for all L by appending a self-interaction to the divergent Gaussian integral and analytically continuing to zero self-interaction. Because of this continuation, the coefficient of the singlet projector in the approximate density matrix can be negative. For a spin dimer, $Z_L$ is an even function of the coupling constant for L<3: ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic coupling can be distinguished only for $L\ge 3$, where a Berry phase appears in the functional integral. At any non-zero temperature, the exact partition function is recovered as $L\to\infty$.

id: quant-ph/0003110
title: Stability properties of trapped Bose-Fermi gases mixture
authors: X.X.Yi, C.P.Sun
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003110
abstract: The stability of Bose-Fermi gases trapped in an isotropic potentials at ultracold temperature is strongly influenced by the interaction between the fermions and the bosons. At zero temperature, the stability criterion is given in this paper using variation method, the results show that whether a fermion-boson mixture is stable depends mainly on the interaction between the fermions and the bosons. For finite temperature, however, the stability is not only related to the coupling constants, but also to the temperature. The stability conditions for finite temperature are also derived and discuss in details in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0003111
title: Quantum communication between atomic ensembles using coherent light
authors: Lu-Ming Duan, J.I. Cirac, P. Zoller, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 5643 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003111
abstract: Protocols for quantum communication between massive particles, such as atoms, are usually based on transmitting nonclassical light, and/or super-high finesse optical cavities are normally needed to enhance interaction between atoms and photons. We demonstrate a surprising result: an unknown quantum state can be teleported from one free-space atomic ensemble to the other by transmitting only coherent light. No non-classical light and no cavities are needed in the scheme, which greatly simplifies its experimental implementation.

id: quant-ph/0003112
title: Transverse Isotropy in Identical Particle Scattering
authors: L.F. Canto, R. Donangelo, M.S. Hussein
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX format, 2 figures (.eps format)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003112
abstract: It is pointed out that the cross section for the scattering of identical charged bosons is isotropic over a broad angular range around 90 degrees when the Sommerfeld parameter has a critical value, which depends exclusively on the spin of the particle. A discussion of systems where this phenomenon can be observed is presented.

id: quant-ph/0003113
title: Universal construction of quantum computational networks in superconducting Josephson junctions
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003113
abstract: Any quantum computational network can be constructed with a sequence of the two-qubit diagonal quantum gates and one-qubit gates in two-state quantum systems. The universal construction of these quantum gates in the quantum systems and of the quantum computational networks with these gates may be achieved with the help of the operator algebra structure of Hamiltonians of the systems and the properties of the multiple-quantum operator algebra subspaces of the Liouville operator space and the specific properties of the quantum algorithm corresponding to the quantum network. As an example, the two-qubit diagonal gates are exactly prepared in detail in superconducting Josephson junctions.

id: quant-ph/0003114
title: Phase shift operator and cyclic evolution in finite dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: Revtex, 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003114
abstract: We address the problem of phase shift operator acting as time evolution operator in Pegg-Barnett formalism. It is argued that standard shift operator is inconsistent with the behaviour of the state vector under cyclic evolution. We consider a generally deformed oscillator algebra at q-root of unity, as it yields the same Pegg-Barnett operator and show that shift operator meets our requirement.

id: quant-ph/0003115
title: Coherent States of Non-Linear Algebras:Application to Quantum Optics
authors: V. SunilKumar, B. A. Bambah, R. Jagannathan, P. K. Panigrahi, V. Srinivasan
comments: 14 pages, Latex. This is a thoroughly revised version of our earlier paper quant-ph/9905010, which is much more comprehensive. This version is accepted for publication in Journal of Optics B-Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 2 (2000),Special Issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003115
abstract: We present a general unified approach for finding the coherent states of polynomially deformed algebras such as the quadratic and Higgs algebras, which are relevant for various multiphoton processes in quantum optics. We give a general procedure to map these deformed algebras to appropriate Lie algebras. This is used, for the non compact cases, to obtain the annihilation operator coherent states, by finding the canonical conjugates of these operators. Generalized coherent states, in the Perelomov sense also follow from this construction. This allows us to explicitly construct coherent states associated with various quantum optical systems.

id: quant-ph/0003116
title: Physical implementation for entanglement purification of Gaussian continuous variable quantum states
authors: Lu-Ming Duan, G. Giedke, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032304 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003116
abstract: We give a detailed description of the entanglement purification protocol which generates maximally entangled states with high efficiencies from realistic Gaussian continuous variable entangled states. The physical implementation of this protocol is extensively analyzed using high finesse cavities and cavity enhanced cross Kerr nonlinearities. In particular, we take into account many imperfections in the experimental scheme and calculate their influences. Quantitative requirements are given for the relevant experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0003117
title: Remark on multi-particle observables and entangled states with constant complexity
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 7 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003117
abstract: We show that every density matrix of an n-particle system prepared by a quantum network of constant depth is asymptotically commuting with the mean-field observables. We introduce certain pairs of hypersurfaces in the space of density matrices and give lower bounds for the depth of a network which prepares states lying outside those pairs. The measurement of an observable which is not asymptotically commuting with the mean-field observables requires a network of depth in the order of log n, if one demands the measurement to project the state into the eigenspace of the measured observable.

id: quant-ph/0003118
title: Testing the Symmetrization Postulate on Molecules with Three Identical Nuclei
authors: Giovanni Modugno, Michele Modugno
comments: 9 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 022115 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003118
abstract: We propose an experiment to look for possible small violations of the symmetrization postulate of Quantum Mechanics, in systems composed by three identical particles. Such violations could be detected by investigating the population of particular roto-vibrational states of symmetrical molecules containing three identical nuclei. We discuss the symmetry properties of such states, and the implications of the symmetrization postulate and of the spin-statistics. A high sensitivity spectroscopic investigation on simple molecules such as SO3, BH3 and NH3 could lead to the first test of the symmetrization postulate for spin-0 and spin-1/2 nuclei.

id: quant-ph/0003119
title: Recovering Coherence via Conditional Measurements
authors: M. Fortunato, G. Harel, G. Kurizki
comments: REVTeX 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Communications 147 (1998) 71
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003119
abstract: We show that conditional measurements on atoms following their interaction with a resonant cavity field mode can be used to effectively counter the decoherence of Fock-state superpositions due to cavity leakage.

id: quant-ph/0003120
title: On the origin of noisy states whose teleportation fidelity can be enhanced through dissipation
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: Latex, 18 pages: Revised version with a new result. Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 022302 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003120
abstract: Recently Badziag \emph{et al.} \cite{badziag} obtained a class of noisy states whose teleportation fidelity can be enhanced by subjecting one of the qubits to dissipative interaction with the environment via amplitude damping channel (ADC). We show that such noisy states result while sharing the states (| \Phi ^{\pm}> =\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(| 00> \pm | 11>)) across ADC. We also show that under similar dissipative interactions different Bell states give rise to noisy entangled states that are qualitatively very different from each other in the sense, only the noisy entangled states constructed from the Bell states (| \Phi ^{\pm}>) can \emph{}be made better sometimes by subjecting the unaffected qubit to a dissipative interaction with the environment. Importantly if the noisy state is non teleporting then it can always be made teleporting with this prescription. We derive the most general restrictions on improvement of such noisy states assuming that the damping parameters being different for both the qubits. However this curious prescription does not work for the noisy entangled states generated from (| \Psi ^{\pm}> =\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(| 01> \pm | 10>)). This shows that an apriori knowledge of the noisy channel might be helpful to decide which Bell state needs to be shared between Alice and Bob. \emph{}

id: quant-ph/0003121
title: Classical phase space and statistical mechanics of identical particles
authors: T.H. Hansson, S.B. Isakov, J.M. Leinaas, U. Lindstrom
comments: 40 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003121
abstract: Starting from the quantum theory of identical particles, we show how to define a classical mechanics that retains information about the quantum statistics. We consider two examples of relevance for the quantum Hall effect: identical particles in the lowest Landau level, and vortices in the Chern-Simons Ginzburg-Landau model. In both cases the resulting {\em classical} statistical mechanics is shown to be a nontrivial classical limit of Haldane's exclusion statistics.

id: quant-ph/0003122
title: Quantum Computation with hot and cold ions:An assessment of proposed schemes
authors: D. F. V. James
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Fortschritte der Physik
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003122
abstract: We present a brief critical review of the proposals for quantum computation with trapped ions, with particular emphasis on the possibilities for quantum computation without the need for cooling to the quantum ground state of the ions' collective oscillatory modes.

id: quant-ph/0003123
title: Fidelity balance in quantum operations
authors: Konrad Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX. Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1366 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003123
abstract: I derive a tight bound between the quality of estimating the state of a single copy of a $d$-level system, and the degree the initial state has to be altered in course of this procedure. This result provides a complete analytical description of the quantum mechanical trade-off between the information gain and the quantum state disturbance expressed in terms of mean fidelities. I also discuss consequences of this bound for quantum teleportation using nonmaximally entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0003124
title: Nonlinear Decoherence in Quantum State Preparation of a Trapped Ion
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Hao-Sheng Zeng, Zhao-Yang Tong
comments: 5 pages, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 60, 3815 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003124
abstract: We present a nonlinear decoherence model which models decoherence effect caused by various decohereing sources in a quantum system through a nonlinear coupling between the system and its environment, and apply it to investigating decoherence in nonclassical motional states of a single trapped ion. We obtain an exactly analytic solution of the model and find very good agreement with experimental results for the population decay rate of a single trapped ion observed in the NIST experiments by Meekhof and coworkers (D. M. Meekhof, {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 76}, 1796 (1996)).

id: quant-ph/0003125
title: Trapped ions in laser fields: A benchmark for deformed quantum oscillators
authors: V. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno, F. Zaccaria
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A, VOLUME 62, 053407 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003125
abstract: Some properties of the non--linear coherent states (NCS), recognized by Vogel and de Matos Filho as dark states of a trapped ion, are extended to NCS on a circle, for which the Wigner functions are presented. These states are obtained by applying a suitable displacement operator $D_{h}(\alpha) $ to the vacuum state. The unity resolutions in terms of the projectors $| \alpha, h> < \alpha, h^{-1}| ,| \alpha, h^{-1}> < \alpha, h| $ are presented together with a measure allowing a resolution in terms of $| \alpha, h> < \alpha, h| $. $D_{h}(\alpha) $ is also used for introducing the probability distribution funtion $\rho_{A,h}(z) $ while the existence of a measure is exploited for extending the P-representation to these states. The weight of the n-th Fock state of the NCS relative to a trapped ion with Lamb-Dicke parameter $\eta ,$ oscillates so wildly as $n$ grows up to infinity that the normalized NCS fill the open circle $\eta ^{-1}$ in the complex $\alpha $-plane. In addition this prevents the existence of a measure including normalizable states only. This difficulty is overcome by introducing a family of deformations which are rational functions of n, each of them admitting a measure. By increasing the degree of these rational approximations the deformation of a trapped ion can be approximated with any degree of accuracy and the formalism of the P-representation can be applied.

id: quant-ph/0003126
title: Incoherent scattering of light by a Bose--Einstein condensate of interacting atoms
authors: I.E.Mazets
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages, no figures; submitted to European Phys. J. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003126
abstract: We demonstrate that incoherent photon scattering by a Bose-Einstein condensate of non-ideal atomic gas is enhanced due to bosonic stimulation of spontaneous emission, similarly to coherent scattering in forward direction. Necessary initial population of non-condensate states is provided by quantum depletion of a condensate caused by interatomic repulsion.

id: quant-ph/0003127
title: Reply to Comment by A. Moroz
authors: Sajeev John, Ovidiu Toader
comments: 1 page, 1 figure, LaTeX in abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003127
abstract: In (quant-ph/9911099 version 1) A. Moroz claims that the exponent $\eta$ from the local photon density of states near a band gap edge $\rho(\omega) = K(\vec{r}) |\omega_c - \omega|^\eta$ varies strongly with the position in the crystal. We show that this is not the case and we demonstrate the error in his analysis.

id: quant-ph/0003128
title: Quantum Computation and the localization of Modular Functors
authors: Michael H. Freedman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003128
abstract: The mathematical problem of localizing modular functors to neighborhoods of points is shown to be closely related to the physical problem of engineering a local Hamiltonian for a computationally universal quantum medium. For genus $=0$ surfaces, such a local Hamiltonian is mathematically defined. Braiding defects of this medium implements a representation associated to the Jones polynomial and this representation is known to be universal for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0003129
title: Focusing Vacuum Fluctuations
authors: L.H. Ford, N.F. Svaiter
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures; typos corrected, two refs and some comments added
journal: Phys.Rev. A62 (2000) 062105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003129
abstract: The focusing of the vacuum modes of a quantized field by a parabolic mirror is investigated. We use a geometric optics approximation to calculate the energy density and mean squared field averages for scalar and electromagnetic fields near the focus. We find that these quantities grow as an inverse power of the distance to the focus. There is an attractive Casimir-Polder force on an atom which will draw it into the focus. Some estimates of the magnitude of the effects of this focusing indicate that it may be observable.

id: quant-ph/0003130
title: Temporal Ordering in Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Oppenheim, B. Reznik, W. Unruh
comments: New section added, arguing that order-of-arrival can be measured more accurately than time-of-arrival. To appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J.Phys.A35:7641-7652,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003130
abstract: We examine the measurability of the temporal ordering of two events, as well as event coincidences. In classical mechanics, a measurement of the order-of-arrival of two particles is shown to be equivalent to a measurement involving only one particle (in higher dimensions). In quantum mechanics, we find that diffraction effects introduce a minimum inaccuracy to which the temporal order-of-arrival can be determined unambiguously. The minimum inaccuracy of the measurement is given by dt=1/E where E is the total kinetic energy of the two particles. Similar restrictions apply to the case of coincidence measurements. We show that these limitations are much weaker than limitations on measuring the time-of-arrival of a particle to a fixed location.

id: quant-ph/0003131
title: Disagreement between correlations of quantum mechanics and stochastic electrodynamics in the damped parametric oscillator
authors: D. T. Pope, P. D. Drummond, W. J. Munro
comments: accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 62 (2000) 042108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003131
abstract: Intracavity and external third order correlations in the damped nondegenerate parametric oscillator are calculated for quantum mechanics and stochastic electrodynamics (SED), a semiclassical theory. The two theories yield greatly different results, with the correlations of quantum mechanics being cubic in the system's nonlinear coupling constant and those of SED being linear in the same constant. In particular, differences between the two theories are present in at least a mesoscopic regime. They also exist when realistic damping is included. Such differences illustrate distinctions between quantum mechanics and a hidden variable theory for continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0003132
title: L'ordinateur quantique
authors: Denis Crottet
comments: 30 pages, 1 figures; in French; Projet STS (Science, Technique et Societe). Comments Welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003132
abstract: Project of an undergraduate student in physics (4th year) about the concept of quantum computers (QC) and its social impact. After a thourough theoretical introduction (chap. 2), the recent debate about NMR-based QC is dealt with in detail (chap. 3). Chapter 4 comments on the figure of the number of articles published on the subject, showing the dramatic growth after the publication of Shor's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0003133
title: Theory of the Microscopic Maser Phase Transitions
authors: Per K Rekdal, Bo-Sture K Skagerstam
comments: 39 pages and 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003133
abstract: Phase diagrams of the micromaser system are mapped out in terms of the physical parameters at hand like the atom cavity transit time, the atom-photon frequency detuning, the number of thermal photons and the probability for a pump atom to be in its excited state. Critical fluctuations are studied in terms of correlation measurements on atoms having passed through the micromaser or on the microcavity photons themselves. At sufficiently large values of the detuning we find a ``twinkling'' mode of the micromaser system. Detailed properties of the trapping states are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0003134
title: Generalized Noiseless Quantum Codes utilizing Quantum Enveloping Algebras
authors: M. Durdevich, H.E. Makaruk, R.Owczarek
comments: amsart, 16p, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003134
abstract: A generalization of the results of Rasetti and Zanardi concerning avoiding errors in quantum computers by using states preserved by evolution is presented. The concept of the dynamical symmetry is generalized from the level of classical Lie algebras and groups, to the level of a dynamical symmetry based on quantum Lie algebras and quantum groups (in the sense of Woronowicz). An intrinsic dependence of the concept of dynamical symmetry on the differential calculus (which holds also in the classical case) is stressed. A natural connection between quantum states invariant under a quantum group action, and quantum states preserved by the dynamical evolution is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0003135
title: A Beam Splitter for Guided Atoms on an Atom Chip
authors: Donatella Cassettari, Bj?rn Hessmo, Ron Folman, Thomas Maier, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev.Lett. 85, 5483 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003135
abstract: We have designed and experimentally studied a simple beam splitter for atoms guided on an Atom Chip, using a current carrying Y-shaped wire and a bias magnetic field. This beam splitter and other similar designs can be used to build atom optical elements on the mesoscopic scale, and integrate them in matterwave quantum circuits.

id: quant-ph/0003136
title: Computing with highly mixed states
authors: Andris Ambainis, Leonard J. Schulman, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, to appear in proceedings of STOC'00
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003136
abstract: We consider quantum computing in the k-qubit model where the starting state of a quantum computer consists of k qubits in a pure state and n-k qubits in a maximally mixed state. We ask the following question: is there a general method for simulating an arbitrary m-qubit pure state quantum computation by a quantum computation in the k-qubit model? We show that, under certain constraints, this is impossible, unless m=O(k+ log n).

id: quant-ph/0003137
title: Fermionic quantum computation
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Alexei Kitaev
comments: 18 pages, Latex; one reference added
journal: Annals of Physics, Vol. 298, Iss. 1 (2002) pp.210-226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003137
abstract: We define a model of quantum computation with local fermionic modes (LFMs) -- sites which can be either empty or occupied by a fermion. With the standard correspondence between the Foch space of $m$ LFMs and the Hilbert space of $m$ qubits, simulation of one fermionic gate takes $O(m)$ qubit gates and vice versa. We show that using different encodings, the simulation cost can be reduced to $O(\log m)$ and a constant, respectively. Nearest-neighbors fermionic gates on a graph of bounded degree can be simulated at a constant cost. A universal set of fermionic gates is found. We also study computation with Majorana fermions which are basically halves of LFMs. Some connection to qubit quantum codes is made.

id: quant-ph/0003138
title: Spontaneous decay in the presence of dispersing and absorbing bodies: general theory and application to a spherical cavity
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Knoll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, typos fixed, 1 figure added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 053804 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003138
abstract: A formalism for studying spontaneous decay of an excited two-level atom in the presence of dispersing and absorbing dielectric bodies is developed. An integral equation, which is suitable for numerical solution, is derived for the atomic upper-state-probability amplitude. The emission pattern and the power spectrum of the emitted light are expressed in terms of the Green tensor of the dielectric-matter formation including absorption and dispersion. The theory is applied to the spontaneous decay of an excited atom at the center of a three-layered spherical cavity, with the cavity wall being modeled by a band-gap dielectric of Lorentz type. Both weak coupling and strong coupling are studied, the latter with special emphasis on the cases where the atomic transition is (i) in the normal-dispersion zone near the medium resonance and (ii) in the anomalous-dispersion zone associated with the band gap. In a single-resonance approximation, conditions of the appearance of Rabi oscillations and closed solutions to the evolution of the atomic state population are derived, which are in good agreement with the exact numerical results.

id: quant-ph/0003139
title: Stochastic dynamics of electronic wave packets in fluctuating laser fields
authors: B. Eggers, G. Alber
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003139
abstract: The dynamics of a laser-excited Rydberg electron under the influence of a fluctuating laser field are investigated. Rate equations are developed which describe these dynamics in the limit of large laser bandwidths for arbitrary types of laser fluctuations. These equations apply whenever all coherent effects have already been damped out. The range of validity of these rate equations is investigated in detail for the case of phase fluctuations. The resulting asymptotic power laws are investigated which characterize the long time dynamics of the laser-excited Rydberg electron and it is shown to which extent these power laws depend on details of the laser spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0003140
title: "Interaction-free" discrimination between semi-transparent objects
authors: Graeme Mitchison, Serge Massar
comments: 5 pages (latex), 2 figure, minor corrections, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 032105 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003140
abstract: Absorption-free (also known as ``interaction-free'') measurement aims to detect the presence of an opaque object using a test particle without that particle being absorbed by the object. Here we consider semi-transparent objects which have an amplitude $\alpha$ of transmitting a particle while leaving the state of the object unchanged and an amplitude $\beta$ of absorbing the particle. The task is to devise a protocol that can decide which of two known transmission amplitudes is present while ensuring that no particle interacts with the object. We show that the probabilities of being able to achieve this are limited by an inequality. This inequality implies that absorption free distinction between complete transparency and any partial transparency is always possible with probabilities approaching 1, but that two partial transparencies can only be distinguished with probabilities less than 1.

id: quant-ph/0003141
title: Error Avoiding Quantum Codes and Dynamical Stabilization of Grover's Algorithm
authors: Michael Mussinger, Aldo Delgado, Gernot Alber
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003141
abstract: An error avoiding quantum code is presented which is capable of stabilizing Grover's quantum search algorithm against a particular class of coherent errors. This error avoiding code consists of states only which are factorizable in the computational basis. Furthermore, its redundancy is smaller than the one which is achievable with a general error correcting quantum code saturating the quantum Hamming bound. The fact that this code consists of factorizable states only may offer advantages for the implementation of quantum gates in the error free subspace.

id: quant-ph/0003142
title: Conditional teleportation using optical squeezers and photon counting
authors: J. Clausen, T. Opatrny, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; notations simplified, more explicit explanation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 042308 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003142
abstract: We suggest a scheme of using two-mode squeezed vacuum for conditional teleportation of quantum states of optical field. Alice mixes the input state with one of the squeezed modes on another squeezing device and detects the output photon numbers. The result is then communicated to Bob who shifts the photon number of his part accordingly. This is a principally realizable modification of the recent scheme [G.J. Milburn and S.L. Braunstein, Phys. Rev. A 60, 937 (1999)] where measurements of photon number difference and phase sum are considered. We show that for some classes of states this method can yield very high fidelity of teleportation, nevertheless, the success probability may be limited.

id: quant-ph/0003143
title: Propagation of entangled light pulses through dispersive and absorbing channels
authors: A.V. Chizhov, E. Schmidt, L. Knoll, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003143
abstract: The modification of initially entangled light pulses passing through dispersive and absorbing four-port devices is studied, using recently obtained results on quantum state transformations [Phys. Rev. A 59, 4716 (1999)]. The fidelity and indices of quantum correlations based on the von Neumann entropy are calculated. Their dependence on both the pulse shape and the four-port device parameters is studied. It is shown, that due to dispersion and absorption the quantum correlations are reduced substantially for large initial entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0003144
title: A proof that measured data and equations of quantum mechanics can be linked only by guesswork
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: 31 pages, 8 figures. Submitted to Contemporary Math Series volume entitled "Quantum Computation & Quantum Information Science."
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003144
abstract: The design and operation of a quantum-mechanical device as a laboratory instrument puts models written in equations of quantum mechanics in contact with instruments. This contact is recordable in files of a Classical Digital Process-control Computer (CPC) used both to calculate with the equations and to manage the instruments. By noticing that equations and instruments make contact in a CPC, we rewrite equations of quantum mechanics to explicitly include functions of CPC-commands to the instruments. This sets up a proof that a scientist's choice in linking mathematical models to instruments is unresolvable without guesswork to narrow the set of models from which one is to be chosen. As for implications of the proof, scientists inherit choices from the past and frame choices for the future, choices open to guesswork and visible in CPC files. To picture these choices, we adapt colored Petri nets, and the availability of these net fragments makes choice and guesswork part and parcel of physics. Net fragments as a means of expressing guess-demanding choices are applied to portray guesswork needed in testing and calibrating a quantum computer. The sample size required to test a quantum gate in a quantum computer is shown to grow as the inverse square of the error allowed in implementing the gate.

id: quant-ph/0003145
title: Towards Nonadditive Quantum Information Theory
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 12 pages. Invited talk at International Workshop on Classical and Quantum Complexity and Nonextensive Thermodynamics (3-6 April, 2000, Denton, Texas)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003145
abstract: A definition of the nonadditive (nonextensive) conditional entropy indexed by q is presented. Based on the composition law in terms of it, the Shannon-Khinchin axioms are generalized and the uniqueness theorem is established for the Tsallis entropy. The nonadditive conditional entropy, when considered in the quantum context, is always positive for separable states but takes negative values for entangled states, indicating its utility for characterizing entanglement. A criterion deduced from it for separability of the density matrix is examined in detail by using a bipartite spin-half system. It is found that the strongest criterion for separability obtained by Peres using an algebraic method is recovered in the present information-theoretic approach.

id: quant-ph/0003146
title: Does Quantum Nonlocality Exist? Bell's Theorem and the Many-Worlds Interpretation
authors: Frank J. Tipler
comments: 7 pages in plain TeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003146
abstract: Quantum nonlocality may be an artifact of the assumption that observers obey the laws of classical mechanics, while observed systems obey quantum mechanics. I show that, at least in the case of Bell's Theorem, locality is restored if observed and observer are both assumed to obey quantum mechanics, as in the Many-Worlds Interpretation. Using the MWI, I shall show that the apparently "non-local" expectation value for the product of the spins of two widely separated particles --- the "quantum" part of Bell's Theorem --- is really due to a series of three purely local measurements. Thus, experiments confirming "nonlocality" are actually confirming the MWI.

id: quant-ph/0003147
title: Long Distance, Unconditional Teleportation of Atomic States Via Complete Bell State Measurements
authors: S. Lloyd, M.S. Shahriar, P.R. Hemmer
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003147
abstract: This paper proposes a scheme for creating and storing quantum entanglement over long distances. Optical cavities that store this long-distance entanglement in atoms could then function as nodes of a quantum network, in which quantum information is teleported from cavity to cavity. The teleportation can be carried out unconditionally via measurements of all four Bell states, using a method of sequential elimination.

id: quant-ph/0003148
title: Comment on ``Quantum mechanics of an electron in a homogeneous magnetic field and a singular magnetic flux tube''
authors: R. M. Cavalcanti
comments: 5 pages, REVTEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003148
abstract: Recently Thienel [Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 280 (2000), 140; quant-ph/9809047] investigated the Pauli equation for an electron moving in a plane under the influence of a perpendicular magnetic field which is the sum of a uniform field and a singular flux tube. Here we criticise his claim that one cannot properly solve this equation by treating the singular flux tube as the limiting case of a flux tube of finite size.

id: quant-ph/0003149
title: Local measurements of nonlocal observables and the relativistic reduction process
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003149
abstract: In this paper we reconsider the constraints which are imposed by relativistic requirements to any model of dynamical reduction. We review the debate on the subject and we call attention on the fundamental contributions by Aharonov and Albert. Having done this we present a new formulation, which is much simpler and more apt for our analysis, of the proposal put forward by these authors to perform measurements of nonlocal observables by means of local interactions and detections. We take into account recently proposed relativistic models of dynamical reduction and we show that, in spite of some mathematical difficulties related to the appearence of divergences, they represent a perfectly appropriate conceptual framework which meets all necessary requirements for a relativistic account of wave packet reduction. Subtle questions like the appropriate way to deal with counterfactual reasoning in a relativistic and nonlocal context are also analyzed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0003150
title: Quantum Computation by Geometrical Means
authors: Jiannis Pachos
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, REVTEX, to be published in the AMS Contemporary Math Series volume entitled "Quantum Computation & Quantum Information Science"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003150
abstract: A geometrical approach to quantum computation is presented, where a non-abelian connection is introduced in order to rewrite the evolution operator of an energy degenerate system as a holonomic unitary. For a simple geometrical model we present an explicit construction of a universal set of gates, represented by holonomies acting on degenerate states.

id: quant-ph/0003151
title: Unconventional Quantum Computing Devices
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 9 pages, plain TeX, article from 1998 conference proceedings proposing fermionic quantum computers
journal: in `Unconventional Models of Computation,' C.S. Calude, J. Casti, M.J. Dinneen, eds., Springer, Singapore, 1998
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0003151
abstract: This paper investigates a variety of unconventional quantum computation devices, including fermionic quantum computers and computers that exploit nonlinear quantum mechanics. It is shown that unconventional quantum computing devices can in principle compute some quantities more rapidly than `conventional' quantum computers.

id: cond-mat/0003019
title: Measurement of a Quantum System Coupled to Independent Heat-Bath and Pointer Modes
authors: Dima Mozyrsky, Vladimir Privman
comments: 19 pages in plain TeX
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 14 (2000) 303-312
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003019
abstract: We present an exact derivation of a process in which a microscopic measured system interacts with heat-bath and pointer modes of a measuring device, via a coupling involving a general Hermitian operator $\Lambda$ of the system. In the limit of strong interaction with these modes, over a small time interval, we derive the exact effective many-body density matrix of the measured system plus pointer. We then discuss the interpretation of the dynamics considered as the first stage in the process of quantum measurement, eventually involving the wave-function collapse due to interactions with "the rest of the universe." We establish that the effective density matrix represents the required framework for the measured system and the pointer part of the measuring device to evolve into a statistical mixture described by direct-product states such that the system is in each eigenstate of $\Lambda$ with the correct quantum-mechanical probability, whereas the expectation values of pointer-space operators retain amplified information of the system's eigenstate.

id: cond-mat/0003114
title: Quenched Spin Tunneling and Diabolical Points in Magnetic Molecules: I. Symmetric Configurations
authors: Anupam Garg
comments: Revtex; 4 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003114
abstract: The perfect quenching of spin tunneling that has previously been discussed in terms of interfering instantons, and has recently been observed in the magnetic molecule \Fe8, is treated using a discrete phase integral (or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin) method. The simplest model Hamiltonian for the phenomenon leads to a Schr\"odinger equation that is a five-term recursion relation. This recursion relation is reflection-symmetric when the magnetic field applied to the molecule is along the hard magnetic axis. A completely general Herring formula for the tunnel splittings for all reflection-symmetric five-term recursion relations is obtained. Using connection formulas for a new type of turning point that may be described as lying "under the barrier", and which underlies the oscillations in the splitting as a function of magnetic field, this Herring formula is transformed into two other formulas that express the splittings in terms of a small number of action and action-like integrals. These latter formulas appear to be generally valid, even for problems where the recursion contains more than five terms. The results for the model Hamiltonian are compared with experiment, numerics, previous instanton based approaches, and the limiting case of no magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0003115
title: Tunnel splittings for one dimensional potential wells revisited
authors: Anupam Garg
comments: Revtex; 1 ps figure
journal: Amer. J. Phys. 68, 430 (2000)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003115
abstract: The WKB and instanton answers for the tunnel splitting of the ground state in a symmetric double well potential are both reduced to an expression involving only the functionals of the potential, without the need for solving any auxilliary problems. This formula is applied to simple model problems. The prefactor for the splitting in the text book by Landau and Lifshitz is amended so as to apply to the ground and low lying excited states.

id: cond-mat/0003156
title: Quenched Spin Tunneling and Diabolical Points in Magnetic Molecules: II. Asymmetric Configurations
authors: Anupam Garg
comments: Revtex; 4 ps figures; follow up to cond-mat/0003114
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003156
abstract: The perfect quenching of spin tunneling first predicted for a model with biaxial symmetry, and recently observed in the magnetic molecule Fe_8, is further studied using the discrete phase integral (or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin) method. The analysis of the previous paper is extended to the case where the magnetic field has both hard and easy components, so that the Hamiltonian has no obvious symmetry. Herring's formula is now inapplicable, so the problem is solved by finding the wavefunction and using connection formulas at every turning point. A general formula for the energy surface in the vicinity of the diabolo is obtained in this way. This formula gives the tunneling apmplitude between two wells unrelated by symmetry in terms of a small number of action integrals, and appears to be generally valid, even for problems where the recursion contains more than five terms. Explicit results are obtained for the diabolical points in the model for Fe_8. These results exactly parallel the experimental observations. It is found that the leading semiclassical results for the diabolical points appear to be exact, and the points themselves lie on a perfect centered rectangular lattice in the magnetic field space. A variety of evidence in favor of this perfect lattice hypothesis is presented.

id: cond-mat/0003225
title: Output spectrum of a detector measuring quantum oscillations
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 63, 085312 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003225
abstract: We consider a two-level quantum system (qubit) which is continuously measured by a detector and calculate the spectral density of the detector output. In the weakly coupled case the spectrum exhibits a moderate peak at the frequency of quantum oscillations and a Lorentzian-shape increase of the detector noise at low frequency. With increasing coupling the spectrum transforms into a single Lorentzian corresponding to random jumps between two states. We prove that the Bayesian formalism for the selective evolution of the density matrix gives the same spectrum as the conventional master equation approach, despite the significant difference in interpretation. The effects of the detector nonideality and the finite-temperature environment are also discussed.

id: cond-mat/0003262
title: Frequency dependence of the photonic noise spectrum in an absorbing or amplifying diffusive medium
authors: E. G. Mishchenko, M. Patra, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D 13, 289 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003262
abstract: A theory is presented for the frequency dependence of the power spectrum of photon current fluctuations originating from a disordered medium. Both the cases of an absorbing medium (``grey body'') and of an amplifying medium (``random laser'') are considered in a waveguide geometry. The semiclassical approach (based on a Boltzmann-Langevin equation) is shown to be in complete agreement with a fully quantum mechanical theory, provided that the effects of wave localization can be neglected. The width of the peak in the power spectrum around zero frequency is much smaller than the inverse coherence time, characteristic for black-body radiation. Simple expressions for the shape of this peak are obtained, in the absorbing case, for waveguide lengths large compared to the absorption length, and, in the amplifying case, close to the laser threshold.

id: cond-mat/0003272
title: Impurity Scattering in Carbon Nanotubes with Superconducting Pair Correlations
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: proceedings paper of the 14th International Winterschool on Electronic Properties of Novel Materials Molecular Nanostructures (Kirchberg in Austria, March 4-11, 2000)
journal: in "Electronic Properties of Novel Materials - Molecular Nanostructures", (American Institute of Physics, 2000), pp. 334-347
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003272
abstract: Effects of the superconducting pair potential on the impurity scattering processes in metallic carbon nanotubes are studied theoretically. The backward scattering of electrons vanishes in the normal state. In the presence of the superconducting pair correlations, the backward scatterings of electron- and hole-like quasiparticles vanish, too. The impurity gives rise to backward scatterings of holes for incident electrons, and it also induces backward scatterings of electrons for incident holes. Negative and positive currents induced by such the scatterings between electrons and holes cancel each other. Therefore, the nonmagnetic impurity does not hinder the supercurrent in the regions where the superconducting proximity effects occur, and the carbon nanotube is a good conductor for Cooper pairs. Relations with experiments are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0003319
title: Diabolical Points in Magnetic Molecules: An Exactly Solvable Model
authors: Ersin Kececioglu, Anupam Garg
comments: Revtex, 3 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003319
abstract: The magnetic molecule Fe_8 has been observed to have a rich pattern of degeneracies in its magnetic spectrum as the static magnetic field applied to the molecule is varied. The points of degeneracy, or diabolical points in the magnetic field space, are found exactly in the simplest model Hamiltonian for this molecule. The points are shown to form a perfect centered rectangular lattice, and are shown to be multiply diabolical in general. The multiplicity is found. An earlier semiclassical solution to this problem is thereby shown to be exact in leading order in 1/J where J is the spin.

id: cond-mat/0003451
title: Anomalous rotational properties of Bose-Einstein condensates in asymmetric traps
authors: J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, V. M. Perez-Garcia
comments: 4 RevTeX pages, 2 EPS figures; typos fixed, reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 013602 (2001)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003451
abstract: We study the rotational properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate confined in a rotating harmonic trap for different trap anisotropies. Using simple arguments, we derive expressions for the velocity field of the quantum fluid for condensates with or without vortices. While the condensed gas describes open spiraling trajectories, on the frame of reference of the rotating trap the motion of the fluid is against the trap rotation. We also find explicit formulae for the angular momentum and a linear and Thomas-Fermi solutions for the state without vortices. In these two limits we also find an analytic relation between the shape of the cloud and the rotation speed. The predictions are supported by numerical simulations of the mean field Gross-Pitaevskii model.

id: cond-mat/0003503
title: Correlations due to localization in quantum eigenfunctions of disordered microwave cavities
authors: Prabhakar Pradhan, S. Sridhar
comments: 4 pages, LaTex, 5 .jpg figures. This paper with 5 embedded postscript figures available (PS,PDF) at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2360 (2000)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0003503
abstract: Non-universal correlations due to localization are observed in statistical properties of experimental eigenfunctions of quantum chaotic and disordered microwave cavities. Varying energy {E} and mean free path {l} enable us to experimentally tune from localized to delocalized states. Large level-to-level Inverse Participation Ratio (IPR I_{2}) fluctuations are observed for the disordered billiards, whose distribution is strongly asymmetric about <I_{2}>. The density auto-correlations of eigenfunctions are shown to decay exponentially and the decay lengths are experimentally determined. All the results are quantitatively consistent with calculations based upon nonlinear sigma-models.

id: gr-qc/0003036
title: Naked Singularity Explosion
authors: Tomohiro Harada, Hideo Iguchi, Ken-ichi Nakao
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for Publication in Phys. Rev. D as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys.Rev.D61:101502,2000
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0003036
abstract: It is known that the gravitational collapse of a dust ball results in naked singularity formation from an initial density profile which is physically reasonable. In this paper, we show that explosive radiation is emitted during the formation process of the naked singularity.

id: gr-qc/0003104
title: Uniform Spaces in the Pregeometric Modeling of Quantum Non-Separability
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein
comments: 17 pages, no figures; revised version submitted to Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0003104
abstract: We introduce a pregeometry employing uniform spaces over the denumerable set X of spacetime events. The discrete uniformity D_X over X is used to obtain a pregeometric model of macroscopic spacetime neighborhoods. We then use a uniformity base generated by a topological group structure over X to provide a pregeometric model of microscopic spacetime neighborhoods. Accordingly, quantum non-separability as it pertains to non-locality is understood pregeometrically as a contrast between microscopic spacetime neighborhoods and macroscopic spacetime neighborhoods. A nexus between this pregeometry and conventional spacetime physics is implied per the metric induced by D_X. A metric over the topological group Z2 x ... x Z2 is so generated. Implications for quantum gravity are enumerated.

id: hep-ph/0003237
title: The masses of elementary particles and hadrons
authors: Ding-Yu Chung
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures, 10 tables
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0003237
abstract: The masses of elementary particles and hadrons can be calculated from the periodic table of elementary particles. The periodic table is derived from dimensional hierarchy for the seven extra spatial dimensions. As a molecule is the composite of atoms with chemical bonds, a hadron is the composite of elementary particles with hadronic bonds. The masses of elementary particles and hadrons can be calculated using the periodic table with only four known constants: the number of the extra spatial dimensions in the superstring, the mass of electron, the mass of Z=B0, and the fine structure constant. The calculated masses are in good agreement with the observed values. For examples, the calculated masses for the top quark, neutron, and pion are 176.5 GeV, 939.54MeV, and 135.01MeV in excellent agreement with the observed masses, 176 =B1 13 GeV, 939.57 MeV, and 134.98 MeV, respectively. The masses of 110 hadrons are calculated. The overall average difference between the calculated masses and the observed masses for all hadrons is 0.29 MeV. The periodic table of elementary particles provides the most comprehensive explanation and calculation for the masses of elementary particles and hadrons.

id: hep-th/0003014
title: Renormalization of the Inverse Square Potential
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Luis N. Epele, Huner Fanchiotti, Carlos A. Garcia Canal
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 85 (2000) 1590-1593
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0003014
abstract: The quantum-mechanical D-dimensional inverse square potential is analyzed using field-theoretic renormalization techniques. A solution is presented for both the bound-state and scattering sectors of the theory using cutoff and dimensional regularization. In the renormalized version of the theory, there is a strong-coupling regime where quantum-mechanical breaking of scale symmetry takes place through dimensional transmutation, with the creation of a single bound state and of an energy-dependent s-wave scattering matrix element.

id: hep-th/0003194
title: Quantization Ambiguity and Supersymmetric Ground State Wave Functions
authors: K. Takenaga
comments: 17 pages, final version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D62 (2000) 065001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0003194
abstract: Supersymmetric ground state wave functions of a model of supersymmetric quantum mechanics on $S^1$ (supersymmetric simple pendulum) are studied. Supersymmetry can be broken due to the existence of an undetermined parameter, which is interpreted as a gauge field and appears as a firm consequence of quantization on a space with a nontrivial topology such as $S^1$. The breaking does not depend on the leading term of the superpotential, contrary to the usual case. The mechanism of supersymmetry breaking is similar to that through boundary conditions of fields in supersymmetric quantum field theory on compactified space. The supersymmetric harmonic oscillator is realized in the limit of the infinite radius of $S^1$ with the strength of the oscillator being constant.

id: hep-th/0003255
title: Dimensional Transmutation and Dimensional Regularization in Quantum Mechanics. I. General Theory
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Luis N. Epele, Huner Fanchiotti, Carlos A. Garcia Canal
comments: 28 pages. To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann.Phys.287:14-56,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0003255
abstract: This is the first in a series of papers addressing the phenomenon of dimensional transmutation in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics within the framework of dimensional regularization. Scale-invariant potentials are identified and their general properties are derived. A strategy for dimensional renormalization of these systems in the strong-coupling regime is presented, and the emergence of an energy scale is shown, both for the bound-state and scattering sectors. Finally, dimensional transmutation is explicitly illustrated for the two-dimensional delta-function potential.

id: hep-th/0003267
title: Dimensional Transmutation and Dimensional Regularization in Quantum Mechanics. II: Rotational Invariance
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Luis N. Epele, Huner Fanchiotti, Carlos A. Garcia Canal
comments: 29 pages. To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann.Phys.287:57-100,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0003267
abstract: A thorough analysis is presented of the class of central fields of force that exhibit: (i) dimensional transmutation and (ii) rotational invariance. Using dimensional regularization, the two-dimensional delta-function potential and the $D$-dimensional inverse square potential are studied. In particular, the following features are analyzed: the existence of a critical coupling, the boundary condition at the origin, the relationship between the bound-state and scattering sectors, and the similarities displayed by both potentials. It is found that, for rotationally symmetric scale-invariant potentials, there is a strong-coupling regime, for which quantum-mechanical breaking of symmetry takes place, with the appearance of a unique bound state as well as of a logarithmic energy dependence of the scattering with respect to the energy.

id: hep-th/0003297
title: Quantization of Constrained Systems
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 50 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 572 (2001) 143-182
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0003297
abstract: The present article is primarily a review of the projection-operator approach to quantize systems with constraints. We study the quantization of systems with general first- and second-class constraints from the point of view of coherent-state, phase-space path integration, and show that all such cases may be treated, within the original classical phase space, by using suitable path-integral measures for the Lagrange multipliers which ensure that the quantum system satisfies the appropriate quantum constraint conditions. Unlike conventional methods, our procedures involve no $\delta$-functionals of the classical constraints, no need for dynamical gauge fixing of first-class constraints nor any average thereover, no need to eliminate second-class constraints, no potentially ambiguous determinants, as well as no need to add auxiliary dynamical variables expanding the phase space beyond its original classical formulation, including no ghosts. Besides several pedagogical examples, we also study: (i) the quantization procedure for reparameterization invariant models, (ii) systems for which the original set of Lagrange mutipliers are elevated to the status of dynamical variables and used to define an extended dynamical system which is completed with the addition of suitable conjugates and new sets of constraints and their associated Lagrange multipliers, (iii) special examples of alternative but equivalent formulations of given first-class constraints, as well as (iv) a comparison of both regular and irregular constraints.

id: math-ph/0003002
title: On some additivity problems in quantum information theory
authors: G. G. Amosov, A. S. Holevo, R. F. Werner
comments: 13 pages, no figures, several typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0003002
abstract: A class of problems in quantum information theory, having an elementary formulation but still resisting solution, concerns the additivity properties of various quantities characterizing quantum channels, notably the "classical capacity", and the "maximal output purity". All known results, including extensive numerical work, are consistent with the conjecture that these quantities are indeed additive (resp. multiplicative) with respect to tensor products of channels. A proof of this conjecture would have important consequences in quantum information theory. In particular, according to this conjecture, the classical capacity or the maximal purity of outputs cannot be increased by using entangled inputs of the channel. In this paper we state the additivity/multiplicativity problems, give some relations between them, and prove some new partial results, which also support the conjecture.

id: math-ph/0003005
title: Discrete phase integral method for five-term recursion relations
authors: Anupam Garg
comments: Revtex; 7 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0003005
abstract: A formalism is developed to study certain five-term recursion relations by discrete phase integral (or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin) methods. Such recursion relations arise naturally in the study of the Schrodinger equation for certain spin Hamiltonians. The conditions for the validity of the phase integral approximation are derived. It is shown that in contrast to the three-term problem, it is now possible to get a turning points "under the barrier", i.e., in the classically forbidden region, as well as inside the classically allowed region. Further, no qualitatively new types of turning points arise in recursion relations with still higher numbers of terms. The phase integral approximation breaks down at the new turning points, requiring new connection formulas, which are derived.

id: math-ph/0003017
title: Quadratic Poisson algebras for two dimensional classical superintegrable systems and quadratic associative algebras for quantum superintegrable systems
authors: C. Daskaloyannis
comments: 28 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0003017
abstract: The integrals of motion of the classical two dimensional superintegrable systems with quadratic integrals of motion close in a restrained quadratic Poisson algebra, whose the general form is investigated. Each classical superintegrable problem has a quantum counterpart, a quantum superintegrable system. The quadratic Poisson algebra is deformed to a quantum associative algebra, the finite dimensional representations of this algebra are calculated by using a deformed parafermion oscillator technique. It is shown that, the finite dimensional representations of the quadratic algebra are determined by the energy eigenvalues of the superintegrable system. The calculation of energy eigenvalues is reduced to the solution of algebraic equations, which are universal for all two dimensional superintegrable systems with quadratic integrals of motion.

id: math-ph/0003025
title: $C_¦Ë$-extended oscillator algebras and some of their deformations and applications to quantum mechanics
authors: C. Quesne, N. Vansteenkiste
comments: 48 pages, LaTeX with amssym, no figures, to be published in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 39 (2000) 1175-1215
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0003025
abstract: $C_{\lambda}$-extended oscillator algebras generalizing the Calogero-Vasiliev algebra, where $C_{\lambda}$ is the cyclic group of order $\lambda$, are studied both from mathematical and applied viewpoints. Casimir operators of the algebras are obtained, and used to provide a complete classification of their unitary irreducible representations under the assumption that the number operator spectrum is nondegenerate. Deformed algebras admitting Casimir operators analogous to those of their undeformed counterparts are looked for, yielding three new algebraic structures. One of them includes the Brzezi\'nski {\em et al.} deformation of the Calogero-Vasiliev algebra as a special case. In its bosonic Fock-space representation, the realization of $C_{\lambda}$-extended oscillator algebras as generalized deformed oscillator ones is shown to provide a bosonization of several variants of supersymmetric quantum mechanics: parasupersymmetric quantum mechanics of order $p = \lambda-1$ for any $\lambda$, as well as pseudosupersymmetric and orthosupersymmetric quantum mechanics of order two for $\lambda=3$.

id: nucl-th/0003026
title: Borromean Binding of Three or Four Bosons
authors: Steven Moszkowski, Sonia Fleck, Ali Krikeb, Lukas Theu?l, Jean-Marc Richard, K{¨¢}lm{¨¢}n Varga
comments: 12 pages, RevTeX, 5 Figures in tex included
journal: Phys.Rev. A62 (2000) 032504
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0003026
abstract: We estimate the ratio $R=g_{3}/g_{2}$ of the critical coupling constants $g_{2}$ and $g_{3}$ which are required to achieve binding of 2 or 3 bosons, respectively, with a short-range interaction, and examine how this ratio depends on the shape of the potential. Simple monotonous potentials give $R\simeq 0.8$. A wide repulsive core pushes this ratio close to R=1. On the other hand, for an attractive well protected by an external repulsive barrier, the ratio approaches the rigorous lower bound $R=2/3$. We also present results for N=4 bosons, sketch the extension to $N>4$, and discuss various consequences.

id: nucl-th/0003044
title: Momentum conservation and local field corrections for the response of interacting Fermi gases
authors: Klaus Morawetz, Uwe Fuhrmann
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. E62 (2000) 4382-4385
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0003044
abstract: We reanalyze the recently derived response function for interacting systems in relaxation time approximation respecting density, momentum and energy conservation. We find that momentum conservation leads exactly to the local field corrections for both cases respecting only density conservation and respecting density and energy conservation. This rewriting simplifies the former formulae dramatically. We discuss the small wave vector expansion and find that the response function shows a high frequency dependence of $\omega^{-5}$ which allows to fulfill higher order sum rules. The momentum conservation also resolves a puzzle about the conductivity which should only be finite in multicomponent systems.

id: physics/0003003
title: Suppression of Magnetic State Decoherence Using Ultrafast Optical Pulses
authors: C. Search, P.R. Berman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0003003
abstract: It is shown that the magnetic state decoherence produced by collisions in a thermal vapor can be suppressed by the application of a train of ultrafast optical pulses.

id: physics/0003040
title: Pulsed pump in optical displacement transducer for experiments with probe bodies
authors: Victor V. Kulagin
comments: 9 pages, talk presented at the 6th Int. Conf. on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations, May 1999, Napoli, Italy, accepted for publication in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0003040
abstract: The sensitivity of the displacement transducer pumped with a train of high-intensity laser pulses is estimated. Due to the multicomponent character of the pump a consideration of transformations of the signal and the noises between optical modes plays an important role in estimation of the potential sensitivity. An expression for the minimal detectable external classical force resembles those for the continuous wave pumping with substitution of the laser power by a time averaged power of pulsed laser. Possible scheme for back action noise compensation for such transducers is considered. For full suppression of back action noise the field of local oscillator has to be pulsed with the same time dependence as the pump field.

id: physics/0003041
title: h is classical
authors: V. Guruprasad
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0003041
abstract: Regardless of number, standing wave modes are by definition noninteracting, and therefore cannot thermalize by themselves. Doppler shifts due to thermal motions of cavity walls provide necessary mixing, but also preserve the amplitudes and phases. The lambda/2 intervals of the modes thus preserved must have equal energy expectations, say <E>, in the resulting equilibrium. By definition again, they can be exchanged between modes only in whole numbers and hence only between harmonics. Each family of harmonic modes is thus self-contained and is disjoint from other families in such exchanges, and further, can have no more than one mode excited at any instant. The second property identifies harmonic families of standing wave modes as the harmonic oscillators of Planck's theory, since a family can only bear energy equal to exactly one of E, 2E, 3E, etc These two properties further imply that the energy expectation gets averaged only over an individual family, as the equilibrium energy <E(f)> steadily available at a given mode would have contributions from its entire harmonic family. Planck's equations reemerge, and radiation quantization arises as a classical rule <E(f)> = <E>f, as a mode must contain a whole number of exchangeable lambda/2 intervals, but it only concerns equilibrium states. The result makes Planck constant h an analogue of Boltzmann's constant k for the frequency domain, and points to postulate-free explanations of all aspects of quantum and kinetic theories.

