id: quant-ph/0004001
title: Interference-induced gain in Autler-Townes doublet of a V-type atom in a cavity
authors: Peng Zhou, S. Swain, L. You
comments: Minor changes are made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004001
abstract: We study the Autler-Townes spectrum of a V-type atom coupled to a single-mode, frequency-tunable cavity field at finite termperature, with a pre-selected polarization in the bad cavity limit, and show that, when the mean number of thermal photons $N\gg 1$ and the excited sublevel splitting is very large (the same order as the cavity linewidth), the probe gain may occur at either sideband of the doublet, depending on the cavity frequency, due to the cavity-induced interference.

id: quant-ph/0004002
title: Non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics for strong laser-atom interaction
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 24 pages, RevTeX. Minor changes to correct some equations. These modifications have none impact on the results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004002
abstract: A formulation of quantum electrodynamics is given that applies to atoms in a strong laser field by perturbation theory in a non-relativistic regime. Dipole approximation is assumed. The dual Dyson series, here discussed by referring it to the Birkhoff theorem for singularly perturbed linear differential equations, can be applied and a perturbation series obtained transforming the Hamiltonian by a Pauli-Fierz transformation. But, if just few photons are present high-order harmonics cannot be generated. So, it is proven that odd high-order harmonics only appear when the laser field is intense and one can substitute the creation and annihilation operators by the square root of the mean number of photons taken to be huge, the field retaining its coherency property as observed experimentally for harmonics. In this case, the Hamiltonian for perturbation theory comes to the Kramers-Henneberger form. The theory has a dipolar contribution when the free-electron quiver motion amplitude is larger than the atomic radius. For a Coulomb potential one has that the outer electron is periodically kicked, and so a prove is given that the same should happen to Rydberg atoms in intense microwave fields. The distribution representing the kicking has a Fourier series with just odd terms. Using a modified Rayleigh-Schr\"odinger perturbation theory, it is shown that under the same condition of validity of the quiver motion amplitude to atomic radius ratio, the atomic wave function is only slightly modified by the laser field due to the way the energy levels rearrange themselves. This gives a prove of stabilization in the limit of laser frequency going to infinity. Then, perturbation theory can be applied when the Keldysh parameter becomes smaller with respect to the shifted distance between the energy levels of the atom.

id: quant-ph/0004003
title: Entanglement transformation at absorbing and amplifying four-port devices
authors: Stefan Scheel, Ludwig Knoll, Tomas Opatrny, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 12 pages, revtex, 10 eps figures, minor corrections in Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 043803 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004003
abstract: Dielectric four-port devices play an important role in optical quantum information processing. Since for causality reasons the permittivity is a complex function of frequency, dielectrics are typical examples of noisy quantum channels, which cannot preserve quantum coherence. To study the effects of quantum decoherence, we start from the quantized electromagnetic field in an arbitrary Kramers--Kronig dielectric of given complex permittivity and construct the transformation relating the output quantum state to the input quantum state, without placing restrictions on the frequency. We apply the formalism to some typical examples in quantum communication. In particular we show that for entangled qubits the Bell-basis states $|\Psi^\pm>$ are more robust against decoherence than the states $|\Phi^\pm>$.

id: quant-ph/0004004
title: Comment on the temperature dependence of the Casimir force
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, M. V. Lokhanin
comments: 3 pages, REVTEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004004
abstract: Linear in temperature correction to the Casimir force is discussed. The correction is important for small separations between bodies tested in the recent experiments and disappears in the case of perfect conductors.

id: quant-ph/0004005
title: Quantum mechanics with time-dependent parameters
authors: G.Sardanashvily
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004005
abstract: Smooth composite bundles provide the adequate geometric description of classical mechanics with time-dependent parameters. We show that the Berry's phase phenomenon is described in terms of connections on composite Hilbert space bundles.

id: quant-ph/0004006
title: Renormalization Group at finite temperature in Quantum Mechanics
authors: P. Gosselin, B. Grosdidier, H. Mohrbach
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 256 (1999) 125-131
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004006
abstract: We establish the exact renormalization group equation for the potential of a one quantum particle system at finite and zero temperature. As an example we use it to compute the ground state energy of the anharmonic oscillator. We comment on an improvement of the Feynman Kleinert's variational method by the renormalization group.

id: quant-ph/0004007
title: Many Body Problems with "Spin"-Related Contact Interactions
authors: S. Albeverio, S.M. Fei, P. Kurasov
comments: 13 pages, Latex
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 47 (2001) 157-166
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004007
abstract: We study quantum mechanical systems with "spin"-related contact interactions in one dimension. The boundary conditions describing the contact interactions are dependent on the spin states of the particles. In particular we investigate the integrability of $N$-body systems with $\delta$-interactions and point spin couplings. Bethe ansatz solutions, bound states and scattering matrices are explicitly given. The cases of generalized separated boundary condition and some Hamiltonian operators corresponding to special spin related boundary conditions are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0004008
title: Renormalization Group in Quantum Mechanics
authors: P. Gosselin, H. mohrbach
comments: 20 pages
journal: J.Phys.A:Math.Gen.33(2000) 6343-6355
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004008
abstract: We establish the renormalization group equation for the running action in the context of a one quantum particle system. This equation is deduced by integrating each fourier mode after the other in the path integral formalism. It is free of the well known pathologies which appear in quantum field theory due to the sharp cutoff. We show that for an arbitrary background path the usual local form of the action is not preserved by the flow. To cure this problem we consider a more general action than usual which is stable by the renormalization group flow. It allows us to obtain a new consistent renormalization group equation for the action.

id: quant-ph/0004009
title: Reversible combination of inequivalent kinds of multipartite entanglement
authors: G. Vidal, W. D¨¹r, J. I. Cirac
comments: revtex, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 658 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004009
abstract: We present a family of tri-partite entangled states that, in an asymptotical sense, can be reversibly converted into EPR states shared by only two of parties (say B and C), and tripartite GHZ states. Thus we show that bipartite and genuine tripartite entanglement can be reversibly combined in several copies of a single tripartite state. For such states the corresponding fractions of GHZ and of EPR states represent a complete quantification of their (asymptotical) entanglement resources. More generally, we show that the three different kinds of bipartite entanglement (AB, AC and BC EPR states) and tripartite GHZ entanglement can be reversibly combined in a single state of three parties. Finally, we generalize this result to any number of parties.

id: quant-ph/0004010
title: Quantum computation with abelian anyons
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 8 pages, plain TeX, replaced to correct extreme error in ealier version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004010
abstract: A universal quantum computer can be constructed using abelian anyons. Two qubit quantum logic gates such as controlled-NOT operations are performed using topological effects. Single-anyon operations such as hopping from site to site on a lattice suffice to perform all quantum logic operations. Quantum computation using abelian anyons shares some but not all of the robustness of quantum computation using non-abelian anyons.

id: quant-ph/0004011
title: Simple computer model for the quantum Zeno effect
authors: David Wallace
comments: REVTeX; 12 pages including 11 figures; figures reformatted to be more readable; some small changes made to the description of the model
journal: Physical Review A 63 (2001), 022019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004011
abstract: This paper presents a simple model for repeated measurement of a quantum system: the evolution of a free particle, simulated by discretising the particle's position. This model is easily simulated by computer and provides a useful arena to investigate the effects of measurement upon dynamics, in particular the slowing of evolution due to measurement (the `quantum Zeno effect'). The results of this simulation are discussed for two rather different sorts of measurement process, both of which are (simplified forms of) measurements used in previous simulations of position measurement. A number of interesting results due to measurement are found, and the investigation casts some light on previous disagreements about the presence or absence of the Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0004012
title: Elementary Excitations in Trapped BEC and Zero Mode Problem
authors: D.L.Zhou, X.X.Yi, G.R.Jin, Y.H.Su, Y.X.Liu, C.P.Sun
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004012
abstract: We propose a natural expansion of the atomic field operator in studying elementary excitations in trapped Bose-Einstein Condensation (BEC) system near T=0K. Based on this expansion, a system of coupled equations for elementary excitations, which is equivalent to the standard linearized GP equation, is given to describe the collective excitation of BEC in a natual way. Applications of the new formalism to the homogeneous case emphasize on the zero mode and its relevant ground state of BEC.

id: quant-ph/0004013
title: A genuine reinterpretation of the Heisenberg's ("uncertainty") relations
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 82 pages,1 figure (contaaining a copy of a letter from J.S. Bell)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004013
abstract: In spite \smallskip of their popularity the \QTR{bf}{H}eisenberg's (``uncertainty'') \QTR{bf}{R}elations (HR) still generate controversies. The \QTR{bf}{T}raditional \QTR{bf}{I}nterpretation of HR (TIHR) dominate our days science, although over the years a lot of its defects were signaled. These facts justify a reinvestigation of the questions connected with the interpretation / significance of HR. Here it is developped such a reinvestigation starting with a revaluation of the main elements of TIHR. So one finds that all the respective elements are troubled by insurmountable defects. Then it results the indubitable failure of TIHR and the necessity of its abandonment. Consequently the HR must be deprived of their quality of crucial physical formulae. Moreover the HR are shown to be nothing but simple fluctuations formulae with natural analogous in classical (non-quantum) physics. The description of the maesuring uncertainties (traditionally associated with HR) is approached from a new informational perspective. The Planck's constant $\hbar $ (also associated with HR) is revealed to have a significance of generic indicator for quantum stochasticity, similarly with the role of Boltzmann's constant k in respect with the thermal stochasticity.

id: quant-ph/0004014
title: RISQ - reduced instruction set quantum computers
authors: Klaus Molmer, Anders Sorensen
comments: 11 pages, talk given at Fundamentals of Modern Optics V, to appear in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Modn. Optics 47, 2515 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004014
abstract: Candidates for quantum computing which offer only restricted control, e.g., due to lack of access to individual qubits, are not useful for general purpose quantum computing. We present concrete proposals for the use of systems with such limitations as RISQ - reduced instruction set quantum computers and devices - for simulation of quantum dynamics, for multi-particle entanglement and squeezing of collective spin variables. These tasks are useful in their own right, and they also provide experimental probes for the functioning of quantum gates in pre-mature proto-types of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0004015
title: Geometric Quantum Computation
authors: A. Ekert, M. Ericsson, P. Hayden, H. Inamori, J. A. Jones, D. K. L. Oi, V. Vedral
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX, uses cite, eepic, epsfig, graphicx and amsfonts. Accepted by J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47(14-15):2501-2513, 2000.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004015
abstract: We describe in detail a general strategy for implementing a conditional geometric phase between two spins. Combined with single-spin operations, this simple operation is a universal gate for quantum computation, in that any unitary transformation can be implemented with arbitrary precision using only single-spin operations and conditional phase shifts. Thus quantum geometrical phases can form the basis of any quantum computation. Moreover, as the induced conditional phase depends only on the geometry of the paths executed by the spins it is resilient to certain types of errors and offers the potential of a naturally fault-tolerant way of performing quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0004016
title: Fundamental bounds on quantum measurements with a mixed apparatus
authors: S. Bose, V. Vedral
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004016
abstract: We consider the apparatus in a quantum measurement process to be in a mixed state. We propose a simple upper bound on the probability of correctly distinguishing any number of mixed states. We use this to derive fundamental bounds on the efficiency of a measurement in terms of the temperature of the apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0004017
title: Quantum Bit Escrow
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Amnon Ta-Shma, Umesh Vazirani, Andrew Yao
comments: 10 pages. To appear in STOC 2000 (Proceedings of the Thirty Second Annual ACM Symposium on Theory Of Computing.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004017
abstract: Unconditionally secure bit commitment and coin flipping are known to be impossible in the classical world. Bit commitment is known to be impossible also in the quantum world. We introduce a related new primitive - {\em quantum bit escrow}. In this primitive Alice commits to a bit $b$ to Bob. The commitment is {\em binding} in the sense that if Alice is asked to reveal the bit, Alice can not bias her commitment without having a good probability of being detected cheating. The commitment is {\em sealing} in the sense that if Bob learns information about the encoded bit, then if later on he is asked to prove he was playing honestly, he is detected cheating with a good probability. Rigorously proving the correctness of quantum cryptographic protocols has proved to be a difficult task. We develop techniques to prove quantitative statements about the binding and sealing properties of the quantum bit escrow protocol. A related primitive we construct is a quantum biased coin flipping protocol where no player can control the game, i.e., even an all-powerful cheating player must lose with some constant probability, which stands in sharp contrast to the classical world where such protocols are impossible.

id: quant-ph/0004018
title: Calculating the relative entropy of entanglement
authors: Shengjun Wu, Yongde Zhang
comments: 2 pages, RevTex, an important reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004018
abstract: We extend Vedral and Plenio's theorem (theorem 3 in Phys. Rev. A 57, 1619) to a more general case, and obtain the relative entropy of entanglement for a class of mixed states, this result can also follow from Rains' theorem 9 in Phys. Rev. A 60, 179.

id: quant-ph/0004019
title: PT invariant Non-Hermitian Potentials with Real QES Eigenvalues
authors: Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 13 pages, Latex, no figs Revised version, Major changes in Title, Abstract, Introduction and Conclusion; Refs added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004019
abstract: We show that at least the quasi-exactly solvable eigenvalues of the Schr\"odinger equation with the potential $V(x) = -(\zeta \cosh 2x -iM)^2$ as well as the periodic potential $V(x) = (\zeta \cos 2\theta -iM)^2$ are real for the PT-invariant non-Hermitian potentials in case the parameter $M$ is any odd integer. We further show that the norm as well as the weight functions for the corresponding weak orthogonal polynomials are also real.

id: quant-ph/0004020
title: Multipartite pure-state entanglement and the generalized GHZ states
authors: Shengjun Wu, Yongde Zhang
comments: 7 pages, Revtex, type error corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 012308 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004020
abstract: We show that not all 4-party pure states are GHZ reducible (i.e., can be generated reversibly from a combination of 2-, 3- and 4-party maximally entangled states by local quantum operations and classical communication asymptotically) through an example, we also present some properties of the relative entropy of entanglement for those 3-party pure states that are GHZ reducible, and then we relate these properties to the additivity of the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0004021
title: How behavior of systems with sparse spectrum can be predicted on a quantum computer
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 12 pages, Latex, reference to Shor factoring algorithm added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004021
abstract: Call a spectrum of Hamiltonian sparse if each eigenvalue can be quickly restored with accuracy $\epsilon$ from its rough approximation in within $\epsilon_1$ by means of some classical algorithm. It is shown how a behavior of system with sparse spectrum up to time $T=\frac{1-\rho}{14\epsilon}$ can be predicted with fidelity $\rho$ on quantum computer in time $t=\frac{4}{(1-\rho)\epsilon_1}$ plus the time of classical algorithm. The quantum knowledge of Hamiltonian $H$ eigenvalues is considered as a wizard Hamiltonian $W_H$ which action on any eigenvector of $H$ gives the corresponding eigenvalue. Speedup of evolution for systems with sparse spectrum is possible because for such systems wizard Hamiltonians can be quickly simulated on a quantum computer. This simulation, generalizing Shor trick, is a part of presented algorithm. In general case the action of wizard Hamiltonian cannot be simulated in time smaller than the dimension of main space which is exponential of the size of quantum system. For an arbitrary system (even for classical) its behavior cannot be predicted on quantum computer even for one step ahead. This method can be used also for restoration of a state of an arbitrary primary system in time instant $-T$ in the past with the same fidelity which requires the same time.

id: quant-ph/0004022
title: Discrete Moyal-type Representations for a Spin
authors: Stephan Heiss, Stefan Weigert
comments: 23 pages, latex2e, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 012105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004022
abstract: In Moyal's formulation of quantum mechanics, a quantum spin s is described in terms of continuous symbols, i.e. by smooth functions on a two-dimensional sphere. Such prescriptions to associate operators with Wigner functions, P- or Q-symbols, are conveniently expressed in terms of operator kernels satisfying the Stratonovich-Weyl postulates. In analogy to this approach, a discrete Moyal formalism is defined on the basis of a modified set of postulates. It is shown that appropriately modified postulates single out a well-defined set of kernels which give rise to discrete symbols. Now operators are represented by functions taking values on (2s+1)(2s+1) points of the sphere. The discrete symbols contain no redundant information, contrary to the continuous ones. The properties of the resulting discrete Moyal formalism for a quantum spin are worked out in detail and compared to the continuous formalism, and it is illustrated by the example of a spin 1/2.

id: quant-ph/0004023
title: On the compatibility between the Markov property and the quantum jump
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 10 pages, no figures, submitted to Letters in Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004023
abstract: A brief analysis of the compatibility between the quantum jump and the Markov property for quantum systems described by a stochastic evolution scheme is presented.

id: quant-ph/0004024
title: The finite difference algorithm for higher order supersymmetry
authors: B. Mielnik, L.M. Nieto, O. Rosas-Ortiz
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 269 (2000) 70-78
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004024
abstract: The higher order supersymmetric partners of the Schroedinger's Hamiltonians can be explicitly constructed by iterating a simple finite difference equation corresponding to the Baecklund transformation. The method can completely replace the Crum determinants. Its limiting, differential case offers some new operational advantages.

id: quant-ph/0004025
title: Quantum Feedback for Protection of Schroedinger-cat states
authors: Mauro Fortunato, Paolo Tombesi, David Vitali, Jean-Michel Raimond
comments: LaTeX, 11 pages, 2 figures, uses sprocl.sty. Based on a talk given by M. Fortunato at the 1998 Lecce Conference on Foundation of Quantum Mechanics, to appear in the Conference Proceedings (World Scientific, Singapore, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004025
abstract: We review the use of quantum feedback for combatting the decoherence of Schroedinger-cat-like states in electromagnetic cavities, with special emphasys on our recent proposal of an automatic mechanism based on the injection of appropriately prepared ``probe'' and ``feedback'' Rydberg atoms. In the latter scheme, the information transmission from the probe to the feedback atom is directly mediated by a second auxiliary cavity. The detection efficiency for the probe atom is no longer a critical parameter, and the decoherence time of the linear superposition state can be significantly increased using presently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0004026
title: Group Theoretical Quantum Tomography
authors: G. Cassinelli, G. M. D'Ariano, E. De Vito, A. Levrero
comments: 13 pages, no figure, Latex2e. Submitted to J.Math.Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 41 7940 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004026
abstract: The paper is devoted to the mathematical foundation of the quantum tomography using the theory of square-integrable representations of unimodular Lie groups.

id: quant-ph/0004027
title: Quantum state protection using all-optical feedback
authors: Paolo Tombesi, Vittorio Giovannetti, David Vitali
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to appear in the Dan Walls Memorial Volume, edited by H. Carmichael, R. Glauber, and M. Scully, to be published by Springer
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004027
abstract: An all-optical feedback scheme in which the output of a cavity mode is used to influence the dynamics of another cavity mode is considered. We show that under ideal conditions, perfect preservation against decoherence of a generic quantum state of the source mode can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0004028
title: Quantum Computer as a Probabilistic Inference Engine
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: V1: 33 pages (files: 1 .tex, 3 .sty, 16 .eps) V2: 49 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 19 .eps) V2 is a substantial revision, 4 years after V1. Kept about 50% of V1. Fixed/Improved main technique proposed, and explained how to combine it with Grover's algorithm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004028
abstract: We propose a new class of quantum computing algorithms which generalize many standard ones. The goal of our algorithms is to estimate probability distributions. Such estimates are useful in, for example, applications of Decision Theory and Artificial Intelligence, where inferences are made based on uncertain knowledge. The class of algorithms that we propose is based on a construction method that generalizes a Fredkin-Toffoli (F-T) construction method used in the field of classical reversible computing. F-T showed how, given any binary deterministic circuit, one can construct another binary deterministic circuit which does the same calculations in a reversible manner. We show how, given any classical stochastic network (classical Bayesian net), one can construct a quantum network (quantum Bayesian net). By running this quantum Bayesian net on a quantum computer, one can calculate any conditional probability that one would be interested in calculating for the original classical Bayesian net. Thus, we generalize the F-T construction method so that it can be applied to any classical stochastic circuit, not just binary deterministic ones. We also show that, in certain situations, our class of algorithms can be combined with Grover's algorithm to great advantage.

id: quant-ph/0004029
title: Quantum Codes for Controlling Coherent Evolution
authors: Yehuda Sharf, Timothy F. Havel, David G. Cory
comments: Reformatted single spaced with figures incorporated into text (18 pages, 6 figures, PDF only, submitted to J. Chem. Phys.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004029
abstract: Control over spin dynamics has been obtained in NMR via coherent averaging, which is implemented through a sequence of RF pulses, and via quantum codes which can protect against incoherent evolution. Here, we discuss the design and implementation of quantum codes to protect against coherent evolution. A detailed example is given of a quantum code for protecting two data qubits from evolution under a weak coupling (Ising) term in the Hamiltonian, using an ``isolated'' ancilla which does not evolve on the experimental time scale. The code is realized in a three-spin system by liquid-state NMR spectroscopy on 13C-labelled alanine, and tested for two initial states. It is also shown that for coherent evolution and isolated ancillae, codes exist that do not require the ancillae to initially be in a (pseudo-)pure state. Finally, it is shown that even with non-isolated ancillae quantum codes exist which can protect against evolution under weak coupling. An example is presented for a six qubit code that protects two data spins to first order.

id: quant-ph/0004030
title: A Study of Quantum Error Correction by Geometric Algebra and Liquid-State NMR Spectroscopy
authors: Yehuda Sharf, David G. Cory, Shyamal S. Somaroo, Timothy F. Havel, Emanuel Knill, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 33 pages plus 6 figures, LaTeX article class with amsmath & graphicx packages
journal: Molecular Physics, 2000, Vol 98, No 17, 1347-1363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004030
abstract: Quantum error correcting codes enable the information contained in a quantum state to be protected from decoherence due to external perturbations. Applied to NMR, quantum coding does not alter normal relaxation, but rather converts the state of a ``data'' spin into multiple quantum coherences involving additional ancilla spins. These multiple quantum coherences relax at differing rates, thus permitting the original state of the data to be approximately reconstructed by mixing them together in an appropriate fashion. This paper describes the operation of a simple, three-bit quantum code in the product operator formalism, and uses geometric algebra methods to obtain the error-corrected decay curve in the presence of arbitrary correlations in the external random fields. These predictions are confirmed in both the totally correlated and uncorrelated cases by liquid-state NMR experiments on 13C-labeled alanine, using gradient-diffusion methods to implement these idealized decoherence models. Quantum error correction in weakly polarized systems requires that the ancilla spins be prepared in a pseudo-pure state relative to the data spin, which entails a loss of signal that exceeds any potential gain through error correction. Nevertheless, this study shows that quantum coding can be used to validate theoretical decoherence mechanisms, and to provide detailed information on correlations in the underlying NMR relaxation dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0004031
title: Geometric Algebra in Quantum Information Processing
authors: Timothy F. Havel, Chris J. L. Doran
comments: 27 pages, AMS conm-p-l documentclass, to be published in the AMS ``Contemporary Math'' series volume entitled Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Science (S. Lomonaco, ed.); version 3 includes minor corrections and was reformatted single-spaced for publisher
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004031
abstract: This paper develops a geometric model for coupled two-state quantum systems (qubits), which is formulated using geometric (aka Clifford) algebra. It begins by showing how Euclidean spinors can be interpreted as entities in the geometric algebra of a Euclidean vector space. This algebra is then lifted to Minkowski space-time and its associated geometric algebra, and the insights this provides into how density operators and entanglement behave under Lorentz transformations are discussed. The direct sum of multiple copies of space-time induces a tensor product structure on the associated algebra, in which a suitable quotient is isomorphic to the matrix algebra conventionally used in multi-qubit quantum mechanics. Finally, the utility of geometric algebra in understanding both unitary and nonunitary quantum operations is demonstrated on several examples of interest in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0004032
title: Phase space observables and isotypic spaces
authors: G. Cassinelli, E. De Vito, A. Levrero, P. Lahti
comments: 18 pages, no figure, Latex2e. Submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004032
abstract: We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the set of Neumark projections of a countable set of phase space observable to constitute a resolution of the identity, and we give a criteria for a phase space observable to be informationally complete. The results will be applied to the phase space observables arising from an irreducible representation of the Heisenberg group.

id: quant-ph/0004033
title: A new conception experimental test of Bell inequalities using non-maximally entangled states
authors: G. Brida, M.Genovese, C. Novero, E. Predazzi
comments: to be published in Proc. of International Workshop on Optics and Spectroscopy (Hanoi, Vietnam)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004033
abstract: We report on a test of Bell inequalities using a non-maximally entangled state, which represents an important step in the direction of eliminating the detection loophole. The experiment is based on the creation of a polarisation entangled state via the superposition, by use of an appropriate optics, of the spontaneous fluorescence emitted by two non-linear crystals driven by the same pumping laser. The alignment has profitably taken advantage from the use of an optical amplifier scheme, where a solid state laser is injected into the crystals together with the pumping laser. In principle a very high total quantum efficiency can be reached using this configuration and thus the final version of this experiment can lead to a resolution of the detection loophole, we carefully discuss the conditions which must be satisfied for reaching this result.

id: quant-ph/0004034
title: A Lie algebraic approach to complex quasi exactly solvable potentials with real spectrum
authors: P.Roy, R.Roychoudhury
comments: 7 pages,minor corrections made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004034
abstract: We use a Lie algebraic technique to construct complex quasi exactly solvable potentials with real spectrum. In particular we obtain exact solutions of a complex sextic oscillator potential and also a complex potential belonging to the Morse family.

id: quant-ph/0004035
title: Collective versus local measurements on two parallel or antiparallel spins
authors: S. Massar
comments: 4 pages; minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 040101 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004035
abstract: We give a complete analysis of covariant measurements on two spins. We consider the cases of two parallel and two antiparallel spins, and we consider both collective measurements on the two spins, and measurements which require only Local Quantum Operations and Classical Communication (LOCC). In all cases we obtain the optimal measurements for arbitrary fidelities. In particular we show that if the aim is determine as well as possible the direction in which the spins are pointing, it is best to carry out measurements on antiparallel spins (as already shown by Gisin and Popescu), second best to carry out measurements on parallel spins and worst to be restricted to LOCC measurements. If the the aim is to determine as well as possible a direction orthogonal to that in which the spins are pointing, it is best to carry out measurements on parallel spins, whereas measurements on antiparallel spins and LOCC measurements are both less good but equivalent.

id: quant-ph/0004036
title: On unentangled Gleason theorems for quantum information theory
authors: Oliver Rudolph, J.D.M.Wright
comments: REVTeX, 6 pages
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics 52 (2000), 239-245
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004036
abstract: It is shown here that a strengthening of Wallach's Unentangled Gleason Theorem can be obtained by applying results of the present authors on generalised Gleason theorems for quantum multi-measures arising from investigations of quantum decoherence functionals.

id: quant-ph/0004037
title: "Violating'' Clauser-Horne inequalities within classical mechanics
authors: S. Antoci, L. Mihich
comments: 7 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Nuovo Cim. B115 (2000) 459-466
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004037
abstract: Some authors have raised the question whether the probabilities stemming from a quantum mechanical computation are entitled to enter the Bell and the Clauser-Horne inequalities. They have remarked that if the quantum probabilities are given the status of conditional ones and the statistics for the various settings of the detectors in a given experiment is properly kept into account, the inequalities happen to be no longer violated. In the present paper a classical simile modeled after the quantum mechanical instances is closely scrutinised. It is shown that the neglect of the conditional character of the probabilities in the classical model leads not only to ``violate'' the Clauser-Horne inequalities, but also to contradict the very axioms of classical probability theory.

id: quant-ph/0004038
title: Fast quantum gates for neutral atoms
authors: D. Jaksch, J.I. Cirac, P. Zoller, S.L. Rolston, R. Cote, M.D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, final version, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004038
abstract: We propose several schemes for implementing a fast two-qubit quantum gate for neutral atoms with the gate operation time much faster than the time scales associated with the external motion of the atoms in the trapping potential. In our example, the large interaction energy required to perform fast gate operations is provided by the dipole-dipole interaction of atoms excited to low-lying Rydberg states in constant electric fields. A detailed analysis of imperfections of the gate operation is given.

id: quant-ph/0004039
title: Stability and instability in parametric resonance and quantum Zeno effect
authors: P. Facchi, H. Nakazato, S. Pascazio, J. Perina, J. Rehacek
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A279 (2001) 117-122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004039
abstract: A quantum mechanical version of a classical inverted pendulum is analyzed. The stabilization of the classical motion is reflected in the bounded evolution of the quantum mechanical operators in the Heisenberg picture. Interesting links with the quantum Zeno effect are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0004040
title: Quantum Zeno Dynamics
authors: P. Facchi, V. Gorini, G. Marmo, S. Pascazio, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 275 (2000) 12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004040
abstract: The evolution of a quantum system undergoing very frequent measurements takes place in a subspace of the total Hilbert space (quantum Zeno effect). The dynamical properties of this evolution are investigated and several examples are considered.

id: quant-ph/0004041
title: Fibre bundle formulation of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics (full version)
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 106 standard LaTeX 2e (11pt, A4) pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. This is a unified and completely revised version of the series of papers quant-ph/9803083, quant-ph/9803084, quant-ph/9804062, quant-ph/9806046, quant-ph/9901039, and quant-ph/9902068. For related papers, view this http URL
journal: J.Phys. A34 (2001) 4887-4918, 4919-4934, 4935-4950; Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 229-243, 245-258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004041
abstract: We propose a new systematic fibre bundle formulation of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. The new form of the theory is equivalent to the usual one and is in harmony with the modern trends in theoretical physics and potentially admits new generalizations in different directions. In it the Hilbert space of a quantum system (from conventional quantum mechanics) is replaced with an appropriate Hilbert bundle of states and a pure state of the system is described by a lifting of paths or section along paths in this bundle. The evolution of a pure state is determined through the bundle (analogue of the) Schr\"odinger equation. Now the dynamical variables and the density operator are described via liftings of paths or morphisms along paths in suitable bundles. The mentioned quantities are connected by a number of relations derived in this work.

id: quant-ph/0004042
title: Two-mode Nonlinear Coherent States
authors: Xiao-Guang Wang
comments: 11 pages, no figures, accepted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: Optics Communications 178(4-6)(2000)365-369
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004042
abstract: Two-mode nonlinear coherent states are introduced in this paper. The pair coherent states and the two-mode Perelomov coherent states are special cases of the two-mode nonlinear coherent states. The exponential form of the two-mode nonlinear coherent states is given. The photon-added or photon-subtracted two-mode nonlinear coherent states are found to be two-mode nonlinear coherent states with different nonlinear functions. The parity coherent states are introduced as examples of two-mode nonlinear coherent states, and they are superpositions of two corresponding coherent states. We also discuss how to generate the parity coherent states in the Kerr medium.

id: quant-ph/0004043
title: Quantum Computing Using Dissipation to Remain in a Decoherence-Free Subspace
authors: A. Beige, D. Braun, B.Tregenna, P.L. Knight
comments: replaced with version accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 1762 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004043
abstract: We propose a new approach to the implementation of quantum gates in which decoherence during the gate operations is strongly reduced. This is achieved by making use of an environment induced quantum Zeno effect that confines the dynamics effectively to a decoherence-free subspace.

id: quant-ph/0004044
title: Probability Current and Trajectory Representation
authors: A. Bouda
comments: 15 pages, LateX, no figures, substantially revised with an additional section about microstates, accepted for publication in Foundation of Physics Letters
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 14 (2001) 17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004044
abstract: A unified form for real and complex wave functions is proposed for the stationary case, and the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation is derived in the three-dimensional space. The difficulties which appear in Bohm's theory like the vanishing value of the conjugate momentum in the real wave function case are surmounted. In one dimension, a new form of the general solution of the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation leading straightforwardly to the general form of the Schr\"odinger wave function is proposed. For unbound states, it is shown that the invariance of the reduced action under a dilatation plus a rotation of the wave function in the complex space implies that microstates do not appear. For bound states, it is shown that some freedom subsists and gives rise to the manifestation of microstates not detected by the Schr\"odinger wave function.

id: quant-ph/0004045
title: Relative entropy in quantum information theory
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 36 pages; submitted for proceedings of the AMS special session on Quantum Information and Computation (January, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004045
abstract: We review the properties of the quantum relative entropy function and discuss its application to problems of classical and quantum information transfer and to quantum data compression. We then outline further uses of relative entropy to quantify quantum entanglement and analyze its manipulation.

id: quant-ph/0004046
title: Classical and quantum dynamics of a spin-1/2
authors: Adrian Alscher, Hermann Grabert
comments: 4 pages, submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004046
abstract: We reply to a comment on `Semiclassical dynamics of a spin-1/2 in an arbitrary magnetic field'.

id: quant-ph/0004047
title: Quantum Noise and Superluminal Propagation
authors: Bilha Segev, Peter W. Milonni, James F. Babb, Raymond Y. Chiao
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure, epsf
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 022114 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004047
abstract: Causal "superluminal" effects have recently been observed and discussed in various contexts. The question arises whether such effects could be observed with extremely weak pulses, and what would prevent the observation of an "optical tachyon." Aharonov, Reznik, and Stern (ARS) [Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 81, 2190 (1998)] have argued that quantum noise will preclude the observation of a superluminal group velocity when the pulse consists of one or a few photons. In this paper we reconsider this question both in a general framework and in the specific example, suggested by Chiao, Kozhekin, and Kurizki [Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 77, 1254 (1996)], of off-resonant, short-pulse propagation in an optical amplifier. We derive in the case of the amplifier a signal-to-noise ratio that is consistent with the general ARS conclusions when we impose their criteria for distinguishing between superluminal propagation and propagation at the speed c. However, results consistent with the semiclassical arguments of CKK are obtained if weaker criteria are imposed, in which case the signal can exceed the noise without being "exponentially large." We show that the quantum fluctuations of the field considered by ARS are closely related to superfluorescence noise. More generally we consider the implications of unitarity for superluminal propagation and quantum noise and study, in addition to the complete and truncated wavepackets considered by ARS, the residual wavepacket formed by their difference. This leads to the conclusion that the noise is mostly luminal and delayed with respect to the superluminal signal. In the limit of a very weak incident signal pulse, the superluminal signal will be dominated by the noise part, and the signal-to-noise ratio will therefore be very small.

id: quant-ph/0004048
title: Teleportation using coupled oscillator states
authors: P. T. Cochrane, G. J. Milburn, W. J. Munro
comments: 21 pages REVTeX, manuscript format, 7 figures postscript, many changes to paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 62, 062307 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004048
abstract: We analyse the fidelity of teleportation protocols, as a function of resource entanglement, for three kinds of two mode oscillator states: states with fixed total photon number, number states entangled at a beam splitter, and the two-mode squeezed vacuum state. We define corresponding teleportation protocols for each case including phase noise to model degraded entanglement of each resource.

id: quant-ph/0004049
title: Self- and cross-phase modulation of ultrashort light pulses in an inertial Kerr medium: spectral control of squeezed light
authors: F. Popescu, A. S. Chirkin
comments: LaTeXe, 19 pages, 7 figures, revised version, to appear in J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclass. Opt. (2002) this http URL, style files included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004049
abstract: Quantum theory of self-phase and cross-phase modulation of ultrashort light pulses in the Kerr medium is developed with taking into account the response time of an electronic nonlinearity. The correspondent algebra of time-dependent Bose-operators is elaborated. It is established that the spectral region of the pulse, where the quadrature fluctuations level is lower than the shot-noise one, depends on the value of the nonlinear phase shift, the intensity of another pulse, and the relaxation time of the nonlinearity. It is shown that the frequency of the pulse spectrum at which the suppression of fluctuations is maximum can be controlled by adjusting the other pulse intensity.

id: quant-ph/0004050
title: On quantum evolution as a parallel transport
authors: G.Sardanashvily
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004050
abstract: Time-dependent quantum evolution is described by an algebraic connection on a $C^\infty(R)$-module of sections of a $C^*$-algebra (or Hilbert) fibre bundle.

id: quant-ph/0004051
title: Persistent entanglement in arrays of interacting particles
authors: Hans J. Briegel, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Revised version puts more emphasis on the presentation of the cluster states as a novel class of N-qubit entangled states, and on the discussion of their entanglement properties in terms of the notions of persistency, maximal connectedness, and the Schmidt measure. Introduction has been completely rewritten. More space is now devoted to motivating the notions of persistency and maximal connectedness, see the paragraph after Eq.(3) and (4). Discussion of the Schmidt measure of the cluster states has been added. More technical discussions of the 2D and 3D generalisations of the cluster states have been shortened
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004051
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of a class of $N$ qubit quantum states that are generated in arrays of qubits with an Ising-type interaction. These states contain a large amount of entanglement as given by their Schmidt measure. They have also a high {\em persistency of entanglement} which means that $\sim N/2$ qubits have to be measured to disentangle the state. These states can be regarded as an entanglement resource since one can generate a family of other multi-particle entangled states such as the generalized GHZ states of $<N/2$ qubits by simple measurements and classical communication (LOCC).

id: quant-ph/0004052
title: Quantum to Classical Transition from the Cosmic Background Radiation
authors: M.C. de Oliveira, N.G. Almeida, S.S. Mizrahi, M.H.Y. Moussa
comments: 14 pages, no figure. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 012108 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004052
abstract: We have revisited the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber-Pearle (GRWP) approach for continuous dynamical evolution of the state vector for a macroscopic object. Our main concern is to recover the decoupling of the state vector dynamics for the center-of-mass (CM) and internal motion, as in the GRWP model, but within the framework of the standard cosmology. In this connection we have taken the opposite direction of the GRWP argument, that the cosmic background radiation (CBR) has originated from a fundamental stochastic hitting process. We assume the CBR as a clue of the Big Bang, playing a main role in the decoupling of the state vector dynamics of the CM and internal motion. In our model, instead of describing a continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) of a system of massive particles as proposed by Ghirardi, Pearle and Rimini, the It\^{o} stochastic equation accounts for the intervention of the CBR on the system of particles. Essentially, this approach leads to a pre-master equation for both the CBR and particles degrees of freedom. The violation of the principle of energy conservation characteristic of the CSL model is avoided as well as the additional assumption on the size of the GRWP's localization width necessary to reach the decoupling between the collective and internal motions. Moreover, realistic estimation for the decoherence time, exhibiting an interesting dependence on the CBR temperature, is obtained. From the formula for the decoherence time it is possible to analyze the transition from micro to macro dynamics in both the early hot Universe and the nowadays cold one. The entropy of the system under decoherence is analyzed and the emergent `pointer basis' is discussed. In spite of not having imposed a privileged basis, in our model the position still emerges as the preferred observable as in the CSL model.

id: quant-ph/0004053
title: Quantum computing with trapped ions, atoms and light
authors: A. M. Steane, D. M. Lucas
comments: 17 pages, for Fortschritte der Physik special issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004053
abstract: We first consider the basic requirements for a quantum computer, arguing for the attractiveness of nuclear spins as information-bearing entities, and light for the coupling which allows quantum gates. We then survey the strengths of and immediate prospects for quantum information processing in ion traps. We discuss decoherence and gate rates in ion traps, comparing methods based on the vibrational motion with a method based on exchange of photons in cavity QED. We then sketch the main features of a quantum computer designed to allow an algorithm needing 10^6 Toffoli gates on 100 logical qubits. We find that around 200 ion traps linked by optical fibres and high-finesse cavities could perform such an algorithm in a week to a month, using components at or near current levels of technology.

id: quant-ph/0004054
title: Which Kind of Two-Particle States Can Be Teleported through a Three-Particle Quantum Channel?
authors: Luca Marinatto, Tullio Weber
comments: 11 pages, Latex, to appear in Found.Phys.Lett
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 13, 119-132 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004054
abstract: The use of a three-particle quantum channel to teleport entangled states through a slight modification of the standard teleportation procedure is studied. It is shown that it is not possible to perform successful teleportation of an arbitrary and unknown two-particle entangled state, following our version of the standard teleportation procedure. On the contrary, it is shown which, and in how many different ways, particular classes of two-particle states can be teleported.

id: quant-ph/0004055
title: Bures Measures over the Spaces of Two and Three-Dimensional Density Matrices
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Paul B. Slater
comments: 8 pages, no figures, using LaTeX2e with the Elsevier package
journal: Phys. Let. A 283, 3-4, (2001) 152-156.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004055
abstract: Due to considerable recent interest in the use of density matrices for a wide variety of purposes, including quantum computation, we present a general method for their parameterizations in terms of Euler angles. We assert that this is of more fundamental importance than (as several people have remarked to us) ``just another parameterization of the density matrix.'' There are several uses to which this methodology can be put. One that has received particular attention is in the construction of certain distinguished (Bures) measures on the $(n^2 -1)$-dimensional convex sets of $n \times n$ density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0004056
title: Uncertainty rescued: Bohr's complementarity for composite systems
authors: Ilki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004056
abstract: Generalized uncertainty relations may depend not only on the commutator relation of two observables considered, but also on mutual correlations, in particular, on entanglement. The equivalence between the uncertainty relation and Bohr's complementarity thus holds in a much broader sense than anticipated.

id: quant-ph/0004057
title: Radiation Pressure as a Source of Decoherence
authors: Paulo A. Maia Neto, Diego A. R. Dalvit
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, RevTex file
journal: Phys.Rev.A62:042103,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004057
abstract: We consider the interaction of an harmonic oscillator with the quantum field via radiation pressure. We show that a `Schrodinger cat' state decoheres in a time scale that depends on the degree of `classicality' of the state components, and which may be much shorter than the relaxation time scale associated to the dynamical Casimir effect. We also show that decoherence is a consequence of the entanglement between the quantum states of the oscillator and field two-photon states. With the help of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, we derive a relation between decoherence and damping rates valid for arbitrary values of the temperature of the field. Coherent states are selected by the interaction as pointer states.

id: quant-ph/0004058
title: Wave Function Shredding by Sparse Quantum Barriers
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner, Petr Seba
comments: 4 pages ReVTeX with 3 epsf figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 277 (2000) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004058
abstract: We discuss a model in which a quantum particle passes through $\delta$ potentials arranged in an increasingly sparse way. For infinitely many barriers we derive conditions, expressed in terms ergodic properties of wave function phases, which ensure that the point and absolutely continuous parts are absent leaving a purely singularly continuous spectrum. For a finite number of barriers, the transmission coefficient shows extreme sensitivity to the particle momentum with fluctuation in many different scales. We discuss a potential application of this behavior for erasing the information carried by the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0004059
title: Sampling the canonical phase from phase-space functions
authors: J. Fiurasek, M. Dakna, T. Opatrny, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 063811 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004059
abstract: We discuss the possibility of sampling exponential moments of the canonical phase from the s-parametrized phase space functions. We show that the sampling kernels exist and are well-behaved for any s>-1, whereas for s=-1 the kernels diverge in the origin. In spite of that we show that the phase space moments can be sampled with any predefined accuracy from the Q-function measured in the double-homodyne scheme with perfect detectors. We discuss the effect of imperfect detection and address sampling schemes using other measurable phase-space functions. Finally, we discuss the problem of sampling the canonical phase distribution itself.

id: quant-ph/0004060
title: Contracting the Wigner-Kernel of a Spin to the Wigner-Kernel of a Particle
authors: Jean-Pierre Amiet, Stefan Weigert
comments: 9 pages, Latex2e, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 012102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004060
abstract: A general relation between the Moyal formalisms for a spin and a particle is established. Once the formalism has been set up for a spin, the phase-space description of a particle is obtained from the `contraction' of the group of rotations to the group of translations. This is shown by explicitly contracting a spin Wigner-kernel to the Wigner kernel of a particle. In fact, only one out of 2^{2s} different possible kernels for a spin shows this behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0004061
title: Further Contents of Einstein's E = mc^{2}
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: RevTex 14 pages, 2 figures, presented at the 4th International Conference on Geometrization of Physics (Kazan, Russia, October, 1999), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004061
abstract: The energy-mass content of Einstein's E = mc^{2} is well known. For a fixed value of mass, E = mc^{2} is an energy-momentum relation which takes the form E = \sqrt{m^{2} + p^{2}}. This relation was formulated in 1905 for point particles. Since then, particles have become more complicated. They have internal space-time structures. Massive particles carry the package of internal variables including mass, spin and quarks, while massless particles have the package containing helicity, gauge variables, and partons. The question then is whether these two different packages of variables can be unified into one single covariant package as E = mc^{2} does for the energy-momentum relations for massive and massless particles. The answer to this question is YES.

id: quant-ph/0004062
title: Capacity of Quantum Channels Using Product Measurements
authors: C. King, M.B. Ruskai
comments: Revision with minor corrections and expanded discussion clarifying several points. latex, 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42, 87-98 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004062
abstract: The capacity of a quantum channel for transmission of classical information depends in principle on whether product states or entangled states are used at the input, and whether product or entangled measurements are used at the output. We show that when product measurements are used, the capacity of the channel is achieved with product input states, so that entangled inputs do not increase capacity. We show that this result continues to hold if sequential measurements are allowed, whereby the choice of successive measurements may depend on the results of previous measurements. We also present a new simplified expression which gives an upper bound for the Shannon capacity of a channel, and which bears a striking resemblance to the well-known Holevo bound.

id: quant-ph/0004063
title: EPR Test with Photons and Kaons: Analogies
authors: N. Gisin, A. Go
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Am.J.Phys. 69 (2001) 264-270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004063
abstract: We present a unified formalism describing EPR test using spin 1/2 particles, photons and kaons. This facilitates the comparison between existing experiments using photons and kaons. It underlines the similarities between birefringence and polarization dependent losses that affects experiments using optical fibers and mixing and decay that are intrinsic to the kaons. We also discuss the limitation these two characteristics impose on the testing of Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0004064
title: Theory of Decoherence-Free Fault-Tolerant Universal Quantum Computation
authors: Julia Kempe, Dave Bacon, Daniel A. Lidar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 40 pages (body: 30, appendices: 3, figures: 5, references: 2). Fixed problem with non-printing figures. New references added, minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042307 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004064
abstract: Universal quantum computation on decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems (DFSs) is examined with particular emphasis on using only physically relevant interactions. A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of decoherence-free (noiseless) subsystems in the Markovian regime is derived here for the first time. A stabilizer formalism for DFSs is then developed which allows for the explicit understanding of these in their dual role as quantum error correcting codes. Conditions for the existence of Hamiltonians whose induced evolution always preserves a DFS are derived within this stabilizer formalism. Two possible collective decoherence mechanisms arising from permutation symmetries of the system-bath coupling are examined within this framework. It is shown that in both cases universal quantum computation which always preserves the DFS (*natural fault-tolerant computation*) can be performed using only two-body interactions. This is in marked contrast to standard error correcting codes, where all known constructions using one or two-body interactions must leave the codespace during the on-time of the fault-tolerant gates. A further consequence of our universality construction is that a single exchange Hamiltonian can be used to perform universal quantum computation on an encoded space whose asymptotic coding efficiency is unity. The exchange Hamiltonian, which is naturally present in many quantum systems, is thus *asymptotically universal*.

id: quant-ph/0004065
title: Elastic scattering and bound states in the Aharonov-Bohm potential superimposed by an attractive $¦Ñ^{-2}$ potential
authors: Juergen Audretsch, Vladimir D.Skarzhinsky, Boris L.Voronov
comments: gz-compressed .tar LaTeX file, 14 pages, 3 figures with 8 eps files, to appear in J.Phys.A:Math.Gen
journal: J.Phys.A34:235-250,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004065
abstract: We consider the elastic scattering and bound states of charged quantum particles moving in the Aharonov-Bohm and an attractive $\rho^{-2}$ potential in a partial wave approach. Radial solutions of the stationary Schr\"{o}dinger equation are specified in such a way that the Hamiltonian of the problem is self-adjoint. It is shown that they are not uniquely fixed but depend on open parameters. The related physical consequences are discussed. The scattering cross section is calculated and the energy spectrum of bound states is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0004066
title: Parameters estimation in quantum optics
authors: G. Mauro D'Ariano, Matteo G. A. Paris, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 11 pages. 6 figures. Accepted on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 23815 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004066
abstract: We address several estimation problems in quantum optics by means of the maximum-likelihood principle. We consider Gaussian state estimation and the determination of the coupling parameters of quadratic Hamiltonians. Moreover, we analyze different schemes of phase-shift estimation. Finally, the absolute estimation of the quantum efficiency of both linear and avalanche photodetectors is studied. In all the considered applications, the Gaussian bound on statistical errors is attained with a few thousand data.

id: quant-ph/0004067
title: Wavefunction Collapse and Conservation Laws
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 15 pages
journal: Found.Phys. 30 (2000) 1145-1160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004067
abstract: It is emphasized that the collapse postulate of standard quantum theory can violate conservation of energy-momentum and there is no indication from where the energy-momentum comes or to where it goes. Likewise, in the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) dynamical collapse model, particles gain energy on average. In CSL, the usual Schr\"odinger dynamics is altered so that a randomly fluctuating classical field interacts with quantized particles to cause wavefunction collapse. In this paper it is shown how to define energy for the classical field so that the average value of the energy of the field plus the quantum system {\it is} conserved for the ensemble of collapsing wavefunctions. While conservation of just the first moment of energy is, of course, much less than complete conservation of energy, this does support the idea that the field could provide the conservation law balance when events occur.

id: quant-ph/0004068
title: Decoherence in a single trapped ion due to engineered reservoir
authors: X. X. Yi, D. L. Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., 3(2001)1.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004068
abstract: The decoherence in trapped ion induced by coupling the ion to the engineered reservoir is studied in this paper. The engineered reservoir is simulated by random variations in the trap frequency, and the trapped ion is treated as a two-level system driven by a far off-resonant plane wave laser field. The dependence of the decoherence rate on the amplitude of the superposition state is given.

id: quant-ph/0004069
title: Entanglements and compound states in quantum information theory
authors: Viacheslav P Belavkin, Masanori Ohya
comments: 20 pages, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004069
abstract: Quantum entanglements, describing truly quantum couplings, are stu died and classified from the point of view of quantum compound states. We show that c lassical-quantum correspondences such as quantum encodings can be treated as d-entanglements leading to a special class of the separable compound states. The mutual information of the d-compound and entangled states lead to two di fferent types of entropies for a given quantum state: the von Neumann entrop y, which is achieved as the supremum of the information over all d-entanglem ents, and the dimensional entropy, which is achieved at the standard entangl ement, the true quantum entanglement, coinciding with a d-entanglement only in the commutative case. The q-capacity of a quantum noiseless channel, defi ned as the supremum over all entanglements, is given as the logarithm of the dimensionality of the input von Neumann algebra. It can double the classical capacity, achieved as the supremum over all semi-quantum couplings (d-entang lements, or encodings), which is bounded by the logarithm of the dimensional ity of a maximal Abelian subalgebra.

id: quant-ph/0004070
title: Quantum dynamics and statistics of two coupled down-conversion processes
authors: Ladislav Mista, Jr., Jiri Herec, Viktor Jelinek, Jaroslav Rehacek, Jan Perina
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004070
abstract: In the framework of Heisenberg-Langevin theory the dynamical and statistical effects arising from the linear interaction of two nondegenerate down-conversion processes are investigated. Using the strong-pumping approximation the analytical solution of equations of motion is calculated. The phenomena reminiscent of Zeno and anti-Zeno effects are examined. The possibility of phase-controlled and mismatch-controlled switching is illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0004071
title: Does Anti-Parallel Spin Always Contain more Information ?
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Anirban Roy, Ujjwal Sen
comments: Latex, 5 pages, minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004071
abstract: We show that the Bloch vectors lying on any great circle is the largest set S(L) for which the parallel states |n,n> can always be transformed into the anti-parallel states |n,-n>. Thus more information about the Bloch vector is not extractable from |n,-n> than from |n,n> by any measuring strategy, for the Bloch vector belonging to S(L). Surprisingly, the largest set of Bloch vectors for which the corresponding qubits can be flipped is again S(L). We then show that probabilistic exact parallel to anti-parallel transformation is not possible if the corresponding anti-parallel spins span the whole Hilbert space of the two qubits. These considerations allow us to generalise a conjecture of Gisin and Popescu (Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 432 (1999)).

id: quant-ph/0004072
title: An Introduction to Quantum Error Correction
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 15 pages, AMSLaTeX, talk given at AMS Short Course on Quantum Computation
journal: in Quantum Computation: A Grand Mathematical Challenge for the Twenty-First Century and the Millennium, ed. S. J. Lomonaco, Jr., pp. 221-235 (American Mathematical Society, Providence, Rhode Island, 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004072
abstract: Quantum states are very delicate, so it is likely some sort of quantum error correction will be necessary to build reliable quantum computers. The theory of quantum error-correcting codes has some close ties to and some striking differences from the theory of classical error-correcting codes. Many quantum codes can be described in terms of the stabilizer of the codewords. The stabilizer is a finite Abelian group, and allows a straightforward characterization of the error-correcting properties of the code. The stabilizer formalism for quantum codes also illustrates the relationships to classical coding theory, particularly classical codes over GF(4), the finite field with four elements.

id: quant-ph/0004073
title: Nonclassical correlations between photon number and quadrature components of the light field
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the Quantum Information Technology conference QIT3 held May 29th to 30th 2000 near Tokyo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004073
abstract: Finite resolution quantum nondemolition (QND) measurements allow a determination of light field properties while preserving some of the original quantum coherence of the input state. It is thus possible to measure correlations between the photon number and a quadrature component of the same light field mode. Nonclassical features emerge as photon number quantization is resolved. In particular, a strong anti-correlation of quantization and coherence is observable in QND measurements of photon number, and a correlation between measurement induced quantum jumps and quadrature component measurement results is obtained in QND measurements of quadrature fluctuations in the photon vacuum. Such nonclassical correlations represent fundamental quantum properties of the light field and may provide new insights into the nature of quantization itself.

id: quant-ph/0004074
title: Defect Mass in Gravitational Field and Red Shift of Atomic and Nuclear Radiation Spectra
authors: Kh.M. Beshtoev
comments: LATEX, 8 pages, no figures and tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004074
abstract: It is shown, that radiation spectrum of atoms (or nuclei) in the gravitational field has a red shift since the effective mass of radiating electrons (or nucleons) changes in this field. This red shift is equal to the red shift of radiation spectrum in the gravitational field measured in existence experiments. The same shift must arise when the photon (or $ \gamma $ quantum) is passing through the gravitational field if it participates in gravitational interactions (photon has no rest mass). The absence of the double effect in the experiments, probably, means that photons (or $ \gamma $ quanta) are passing through the gravitational field without interactions.

id: quant-ph/0004075
title: Decoherence and thermalization dynamics of a quantum oscillator
authors: V. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi, A. L. de Souza Silva
comments: 24 pages, LaTex, 8 ps figures, accepted for publication in J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B, v.2, no.3, p.271-281 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004075
abstract: We introduce the quantitative measures characterizing the rates of decoherence and thermalization of quantum systems. We study the time evolution of these measures in the case of a quantum harmonic oscillator whose relaxation is described in the framework of the standard master equation, for various initial states (coherent, `cat', squeezed and number). We establish the conditions under which the true decoherence measure can be approximated by the linear entropy $1-{Tr}\hat\rho^2$. We show that at low temperatures and for highly excited initial states the decoherence process consists of three distinct stages with quite different time scales. In particular, the `cat' states preserve 50% of the initial coherence for a long time interval which increases logarithmically with increase of the initial energy.

id: quant-ph/0004076
title: Quantum Games
authors: J. Eisert, M. Wilkens
comments: 13 pages (LaTeX), 3 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47 (2000) 2543
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004076
abstract: In these lecture notes we investigate the implications of the identification of strategies with quantum operations in game theory beyond the results presented in [J. Eisert, M. Wilkens, and M. Lewenstein, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 3077 (1999)]. After introducing a general framework, we study quantum games with a classical analogue in order to flesh out the peculiarities of game theoretical settings in the quantum domain. Special emphasis is given to a detailed investigation of different sets of quantum strategies.

id: quant-ph/0004077
title: Probability in Orthodox Quantum Mechanics: Probability as a Postulate Versus Probability as an Emergent Phenomenon
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Latex; Submitted to the Proceedings of the Ischia Conference on ``Chance in Physics: Foundations and Perspectives''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004077
abstract: The role of probability in quantum mechanics is reviewed, with a discussion of the ``orthodox'' versus the statistical interpretive frameworks, and of a number of related issues. After a brief summary of sources of unease with quantum mechanics, a survey is given of attempts either to give a new interpretive framework assuming quantum mechanics is exact, or to modify quantum mechanics assuming it is a very accurate approximation to a more fundamental theory. This survey focuses particularly on the issues of whether probabilities in quantum mechanics are postulated or emergent.

id: quant-ph/0004078
title: A spin-coherent semiconductor photo-detector for quantum communication
authors: Rutger Vrijen, Eli Yablonovitch
comments: To be published in the proceedings of the 11th International Winterschool on New Developments in Solid State Physics, 21 - 25 February, 2000, Mauterndorf, Austria (Physica E, Sept. 2000). 5 pages, 4 figures Revised with updated work on light-hole/heavy-hole selection rules
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004078
abstract: We describe how quantum information may be transferred from photon polarization to electron spin in a semiconductor device. The transfer of quantum information relies on selection rules for optical transitions, such that two superposed photon polarizations excite two superposed spin states. Entanglement of the electron spin state with the spin state of the remaining hole is prevented by using a single, non-degenerate initial valence band. The degeneracy of the valence band is lifted by the combination of strain and a static magnetic field. We give a detailed description of a semiconductor structure that transfers photon polarization to electron spin coherently, and allows electron spins to be stored and to be made available for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0004079
title: High Frequency Acousto-electric Single Photon Source
authors: C. L. Foden, V. I. Talyanskii, G. J. Milburn, M. L. Leadbeater, M. Pepper
comments: postscript, 10 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004079
abstract: We propose a single optical photon source for quantum cryptography based on the acousto-electric effect. Surface acoustic waves (SAWs) propagating through a quasi-one-dimensional channel have been shown to produce packets of electrons which reside in the SAW minima and travel at the velocity of sound. In our scheme these electron packets are injected into a p-type region, resulting in photon emission. Since the number of electrons in each packet can be controlled down to a single electron, a stream of single (or N) photon states, with a creation time strongly correlated with the driving acoustic field, should be generated.

id: quant-ph/0004080
title: Vibrational Superposition States Without Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: S. Mancini, H. Moya-Cessa, P. Tombesi
comments: 8 pages, to appear in J. Mod. Optics
journal: J. of Mod. Optics 47, No. 12, 2133-2136 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004080
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate superpositions of coherent states for the vibrational motion of a laser cooled trapped-ion. It is based on the interaction with a standing wave making use of the counter-rotating terms, i.e. not applying the rotating wave approximation. We also show that the same scheme can be exploited for quantum state measurement, i.e. with the same scheme non-classical states may be reconstructed

id: quant-ph/0004081
title: A Quantum Approach To Static Games Of Complete Information
authors: Luca Marinatto, Tullio Weber
comments: 17 pages, Latex, to be published on Phys.Lett.A; revised version
journal: Physics Letters A 272, 291-303 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004081
abstract: We extend the concept of a classical two-person static game to the quantum domain, by giving an Hilbert structure to the space of classical strategies and studying the Battle of the Sexes game. We show that the introduction of entangled strategies leads to a unique solution of this game.

id: quant-ph/0004082
title: Special collision dynamics of massless fermions leading to confinement
authors: J.Witters
comments: LaTeX 9 pages, 4 eps-figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004082
abstract: This is a theory for the fundamental structure of nature based on spinors as unique building blocks. Confinement of the spinors in particles is due uniquely to the dynamics of the collisions between them. The interaction operator contains only spin and momentum operators. The eigenfunctions of the interaction operator have negative as well as positive eigenvalues, limited in magnitude to the Planck energy. Interactions in one-center particles between spinors with eigenvalues of different sign tend to bring the energy of the particle closer to zero. At the origin of the energy reduction through interaction is the spin precession, taking place when two spinors of different type come together. The model can explain the existence of stable particles and all the known forces, including gravitation.

id: quant-ph/0004083
title: Generating entangled atom-photon pairs from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. G. Moore, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004083
abstract: We propose using spontaneous Raman scattering from an optically driven Bose-Einstein condensate as a source of atom-photon pairs whose internal states are maximally entangled. Generating entanglement between a particle which is easily transmitted (the photon) and one which is easily trapped and coherently manipulated (an ultracold atom) will prove useful for a variety of quantum-information related applications. We analyze the type of entangled states generated by spontaneous Raman scattering and construct a geometry which results in maximum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0004084
title: Dynamic generation of maximally entangled photon multiplets by adiabatic passage
authors: W. Lange, H. J. Kimble
comments: 22 pages (RevTeX), including 23 postscript figures. To be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004084
abstract: The adiabatic passage scheme for quantum state synthesis, in which atomic Zeeman coherences are mapped to photon states in an optical cavity, is extended to the general case of two degenerate cavity modes with orthogonal polarization. Analytical calculations of the dressed-state structure and Monte Carlo wave-function simulations of the system dynamics show that, for a suitably chosen cavity detuning, it is possible to generate states of photon multiplets that are maximally entangled in polarization. These states display nonclassical correlations of the type described by Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger (GHZ). An experimental scheme to realize a GHZ measurement using coincidence detection of the photons escaping from the cavity is proposed. The correlations are found to originate in the dynamics of the adiabatic passage and persist even if cavity decay and GHZ state synthesis compete on the same time scale. Beyond entangled field states, it is also possible to generate entanglement between photons and the atom by using a different atomic transition and initial Zeeman state.

id: quant-ph/0004085
title: Mixed-state twin observables
authors: F. Herbut, M. Damnjanovic
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004085
abstract: Twin observables, i.e. opposite subsystem observables A+ and A- that are indistinguishable in measurement in a given mixed or pure state W, are investigated in detail algebraicly and geometrically. It is shown that there is a far-reaching correspondence between the detectable (in W) spectral entities of the two operators. Twin observables are state-dependently quantum-logically equivalent, and direct subsystem measurement of one of them ipso facto gives rise to the indirect (i.e. distant) measurement of the other. Existence of nontrivial twins requires singularity of W. Systems in thermodynamic equilibrium do not admit subsystem twins. These observables may enable one to simplify the matrix representing W.

id: quant-ph/0004086
title: "Velocities" in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Toshiki Shimbori, Tsunehiro Kobayashi
comments: 7 pages, AmS-LaTeX, no figures
journal: Appendix A of [J. Phys. A33 (2000) 7637]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004086
abstract: The present paper deals with some kind of quantum ``velocity'' which is introduced by the method of hydrodynamical analogy. It is found that this ``velocity'' is in general irrotational, namely, a vorticity vanishes, and then a velocity potential must exist in quantum mechanics. In some elementary examples of stable systems we will see what the ``velocities'' are. In particular, the two-dimensional flows of these examples can be expressed by complex velocity potentials whose real and imaginary parts are the velocity potentials and stream functions, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0004087
title: Generalized coherent states for SU(n) systems
authors: Kae Nemoto
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A, 33, 3493-3506 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004087
abstract: Generalized coherent states are developed for SU(n) systems for arbitrary $n$. This is done by first iteratively determining explicit representations for the SU(n) coherent states, and then determining parametric representations useful for applications. For SU(n), the set of coherent states is isomorphic to a coset space $SU(n)/SU(n-1)$, and thus shows the geometrical structure of the coset space. These results provide a convenient $(2n - 1)$--dimensional space for the description of arbitrary SU(n) systems. We further obtain the metric and measure on the coset space, and show some properties of the SU(n) coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0004088
title: Reversing quantum dynamics with near-optimal quantum and classical fidelity
authors: H. Barnum, E. Knill
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004088
abstract: We consider the problem of reversing quantum dynamics, with the goal of preserving an initial state's quantum entanglement or classical correlation with a reference system. We exhibit an approximate reversal operation, adapted to the initial density operator and the ``noise'' dynamics to be reversed. We show that its error in preserving either quantum or classical information is no more than twice that of the optimal reversal operation. Applications to quantum algorithms and information transmission are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0004089
title: Three-particle GHZ correlations without nonlocality
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: Std. Latex, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004089
abstract: The formalism employing local complex amplitudes that resolved the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen puzzle (C. S. Unnikrishnan, quant-ph/0001112) is applied to the three-particle GHZ correlations. We show that the GHZ quantum correlations can be reproduced without nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0004090
title: Path Integral Methods and Applications
authors: Richard MacKenzie
comments: 55 pages, 23 figures. Lectures given at Rencontres du Vietnam: VIth Vietnam School of Physics, Vung Tau, Vietnam, 27 December 1999 - 8 January 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004090
abstract: These lectures are intended as an introduction to the technique of path integrals and their applications in physics. The audience is mainly first-year graduate students, and it is assumed that the reader has a good foundation in quantum mechanics. No prior exposure to path integrals is assumed, however. The path integral is a formulation of quantum mechanics equivalent to the standard formulations, offering a new way of looking at the subject which is, arguably, more intuitive than the usual approaches. Applications of path integrals are as vast as those of quantum mechanics itself, including the quantum mechanics of a single particle, statistical mechanics, condensed matter physics and quantum field theory. After an introduction including a very brief historical overview of the subject, we derive a path integral expression for the propagator in quantum mechanics, including the free particle and harmonic oscillator as examples. We then discuss a variety of applications, including path integrals in multiply-connected spaces, Euclidean path integrals and statistical mechanics, perturbation theory in quantum mechanics and in quantum field theory, and instantons via path integrals. For the most part, the emphasis is on explicit calculations in the familiar setting of quantum mechanics, with some discussion (often brief and schematic) of how these ideas can be applied to more complicated situations such as field theory.

id: quant-ph/0004091
title: An intuitive Hamiltonian for quantum search
authors: Stephen A. Fenner
comments: 9 pages, no figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004091
abstract: We present new intuition behind Grover's quantum search algorithm by means of a Hamiltonian. Given a black-box Boolean function f mapping strings of length n into {0,1} such that f(w) = 1 for exactly one string w, L. K. Grover describes a quantum algorithm that finds w in O(2^{n/2}) time. Farhi & Gutmann show that w can also be found in the same amount time by letting the quantum system evolve according to a simple Hamiltonian depending only on f. Their system evolves along a path far from that taken by Grover's original algorithm, however. The current paper presents an equally simple Hamiltonian matching Grover's algorithm step for step. The new Hamiltonian is similar in appearance from that of Farhi & Gutmann, but has some important differences, and provides new intuition for Grover's algorithm itself. This intuition both contrasts with and supplements other explanations of Grover's algorithm as a rotation in two dimensions, and suggests that the Hamiltonian-based approach to quantum algorithms can provide a useful heuristic for discovering new quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0004092
title: Quantum games and quantum algorithms
authors: David A. Meyer
comments: 10 pages, plain TeX; to appear in the AMS Contemporary Mathematics volume: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Science; revised remarks about other quantum games formalisms; for related work see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004092
abstract: A quantum algorithm for an oracle problem can be understood as a quantum strategy for a player in a two-player zero-sum game in which the other player is constrained to play classically. I formalize this correspondence and give examples of games (and hence oracle problems) for which the quantum player can do better than would be possible classically. The most remarkable example is the Bernstein-Vazirani quantum search algorithm which I show creates no entanglement at any timestep.

id: quant-ph/0004093
title: Teleportation Criteria: Form and Significance
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Lecture Notes in Physics; Dan Walls Memorial Volume (Springer 2000)
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics; Directions in Quantum Optics, 187 (Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004093
abstract: Our criteria for continuous variable quantum teleportation [T.C.Ralph and P.K.Lam, Phys.Rev.Lett. {\bf 81}, 5668 (1998)] take the form of sums, rather than products, of conjugate quadrature measurements of the signal transfer coefficients and the covariances between the input and output states. We discuss why they have this form. We also discuss the physical significance of the covariance inequality.

id: quant-ph/0004094
title: Estimation of Buttiker-Landauer traversal time based on the visibility of transmission current
authors: Koh'ichiro Hara, Ichiro Ohba
comments: 12 pages, REVTeX, including 7 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A62, 032104 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004094
abstract: We present a proposal for the estimation of B\"uttiker-Landauer traversal time based on the visibility of transmission current. We analyze the tunneling phenomena with a time-dependent potential and obtain the time-dependent transmission current. We found that the visibility is directly connected to the traversal time. Furthermore, this result is valid not only for rectangular potential barrier but also for general form of potential to which the WKB approximation is applicable . We compared these results with the numerical values obtained from the simulation of Nelson's quantum mechanics. Both of them fit together and it shows our method is very effective to measure experimentally the traversal time.

id: quant-ph/0004095
title: Teleportation Scheme of S-level Quantum Pure States by Two-level EPRs
authors: Jindong Zhou, Yong-de Zhang
comments: 7 pages,LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004095
abstract: Unknown quantum pure states of arbitrary but definite S-level of a particle can be transferred onto a group of remote two-level particles through two-level EPRs as many as the number of those particles in this group. We construct such a kind of teleportation, the realization of which need a nonlocal unitary transformation to the quantum system that is made up of the s-level particle and all the two-level particles at one end of the EPRs, and measurements to all the single particles in this system. The unitary transformation to more than two particles is also written into the product form of two-body unitary transformations.

id: quant-ph/0004096
title: Enhanced Quantum Estimation via Purification
authors: Holger Mack, Dietmar G. Fischer, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 6 pages, including 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 042301 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004096
abstract: We analyze the estimation of a finite ensemble of quantum bits which have been sent through a depolarizing channel. Instead of using the depolarized qubits directly, we first apply a purification step and show that this improves the fidelity of subsequent quantum estimation. Even though we lose some qubits of our finite ensemble the information is concentrated in the remaining purified ones.

id: quant-ph/0004097
title: An Upper Bound on the Number of States in an Unextendible Product Basis
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Ujjwal Sen
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors as the result is not correct
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004097
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn as the result is not correct.

id: quant-ph/0004098
title: Partitioning optical solitons for generating entangled light beams
authors: Eduard Schmidt, Ludwig Knoll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 5 pages, 3 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004098
abstract: It is shown that bipartition of optical solitons can be used to generate entangled light beams. The achievable amount of entanglement can be substantially larger for N-bound solitons N=2,3 than for the fundamental soliton (N=1). An analysis of the mode structure of the entangled beams shows that just N modes are essentially entangled. In particular, partitioning of the fundamental soliton effectively produces 2-mode squeezed light.

id: quant-ph/0004099
title: Recurrence relation for relativistic atomic matrix elements
authors: R P Mart¨ªnez-y-Romero, H N N¨²?ez-Y¨¦pez, A L Salas-Brito
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004099
abstract: Recurrence formulae for arbitrary hydrogenic radial matrix elements are obtained in the Dirac form of relativistic quantum mechanics. Our approach is inspired on the relativistic extension of the second hypervirial method that has been succesfully employed to deduce an analogous relationship in non relativistic quantum mechanics. We obtain first the relativistic extension of the second hypervirial and then the relativistic recurrence relation. Furthermore, we use such relation to deduce relativistic versions of the Pasternack-Sternheimer rule and of the virial theorem.

id: quant-ph/0004100
title: On rounds in quantum communication
authors: Hartmut Klauck
comments: 21 pages, LaTeX. Partially rewritten and bugs removed. Appears joined with quant-ph/0005106 at 33rd STOC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004100
abstract: We investigate the power of interaction in two player quantum communication protocols. Our main result is a rounds-communication hierarchy for the pointer jumping function $f_k$. We show that $f_k$ needs quantum communication $\Omega(n)$ if Bob starts the communication and the number of rounds is limited to $k$ (for any constant $k$). Trivially, if Alice starts, $O(k\log n)$ communication in $k$ rounds suffices. The lower bound employs a result relating the relative von Neumann entropy between density matrices to their trace distance and uses a new measure of information. We also describe a classical probabilistic $k$ round protocol with communication $O(n/k\cdot(\log^{(k/2)}n+\log k)+k\log n)$ in which Bob starts the communication. Furthermore as a consequence of the lower bound for pointer jumping we show that any $k$ round quantum protocol for the disjointness problem needs communication $\Omega(n^{1/k})$ for $k=O(1)$.

id: quant-ph/0004101
title: Effects of Local Fields on Spontaneous Emission in Dielectric Media
authors: Michael E. Crenshaw, Charles M. Bowden
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004101
abstract: The local-field renormalization of the spontaneous emission rate in a dielectric is explicitly obtained from a fully microscopic quantum-electrodynamical, many-body derivation of Langevin-Bloch operator equations for two-level atoms embedded in an absorptive and dispersive, linear dielectric host. We find that the dielectric local-field enhancement of the spontaneous emission rate is smaller than indicated by previous studies.

id: quant-ph/0004102
title: Mathematical Foundations of Holonomic Quantum Computer
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex file, 11 pages
journal: Rep.Math.Phys. 48(2001) 75-82
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004102
abstract: We make a brief review of (optical) Holonomic Quantum Computer (or Computation) proposed by Zanardi and Rasetti (quant-ph/9904011) and Pachos and Chountasis (quant-ph/9912093), and give a mathematical reinforcement to their works.

id: quant-ph/0004103
title: Renormalization Group Computation of Correlation Functions and Particle Densities
authors: Pierre Gosselin, Herve Mohrbach
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A 284(2001) 6-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004103
abstract: We show that the Renormalization Group formalism allows to compute with accuracy the zero temperature correlation functions and particle densities of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0004104
title: NMR Based Quantum Information Processing: Achievements and Prospects
authors: D.G. Cory, R. Laflamme, E. Knill, L. Viola, T.F. Havel, N. Boulant, G. Boutis, E. Fortunato, S. Lloyd, R. Martinez, C. Negrevergne, M. Pravia, Y. Sharf, G. Teklemariam, Y.S. Weinstein, W.H. Zurek
comments: Latex2e, 9 figures, 33 pages. Prepared for Fortschritte der Physik special issue, Experimental Proposals for Quantum Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004104
abstract: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) provides an experimental setting to explore physical implementations of quantum information processing (QIP). Here we introduce the basic background for understanding applications of NMR to QIP and explain their current successes, limitations and potential. NMR spectroscopy is well known for its wealth of diverse coherent manipulations of spin dynamics. Ideas and instrumentation from liquid state NMR spectroscopy have been used to experiment with QIP. This approach has carried the field to a complexity of about 10 qubits, a small number for quantum computation but large enough for observing and better understanding the complexity of the quantum world. While liquid state NMR is the only present-day technology about to reach this number of qubits, further increases in complexity will require new methods. We sketch one direction leading towards a scalable quantum computer using spin 1/2 particles. The next step of which is a solid state NMR-based QIP capable of reaching 10-30 qubits.

id: quant-ph/0004105
title: Quantum Clock Synchronization Based on Shared Prior Entanglement
authors: Richard Jozsa, Daniel S. Abrams, Jonathan P. Dowling, Colin P. Williams
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004105
abstract: We demonstrate that two spatially separated parties (Alice and Bob) can utilize shared prior quantum entanglement, and classical communications, to establish a synchronized pair of atomic clocks. In contrast to classical synchronization schemes, the accuracy of our protocol is independent of Alice or Bob's knowledge of their relative locations or of the properties of the intervening medium.

id: quant-ph/0004106
title: Fluctuation, Dissipation, and Entanglement: the Classical and Quantum Theory of Thermal Magnetic Noise
authors: J. A. Sidles, J. L. Garbini, W. M. Dougherty, S. H. Chao
comments: 40 pages, three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004106
abstract: A general theory of thermal magnetic fluctuations near conductive materials is developed; such fluctuations are the magnetic analog of Johnson noise. For realistic experiments in quantum computing and magnetic resonance force microscopy, the predicted relaxation can be rapid enough that substantial experimental care should be taken to minimize it. The same Hamiltonian matrix elements that govern fluctuation and dissipation are shown to also govern entanglement and renormalization, and a specific example of a fluctuation-dissipation-entanglement theorem is constructed.

id: quant-ph/0004107
title: Toward scalable quantum computation with cavity QED systems
authors: V. Giovannetti, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi, A. Ekert
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 032306 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004107
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum computing using high-Q cavities in which the qubits are represented by single cavity modes restricted in the space spanned by the two lowest Fock states. We show that single qubit operations and universal multiple qubit gates can be implemented using atoms sequentially crossing the cavities.

id: quant-ph/0004108
title: Exclusion Statistics in Classical Mechanics
authors: T.H. Hansson, S.B. Isakov, J.M. Leinaas, U. Lindstrom
comments: Latex, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004108
abstract: We present a general method to derive the classical mechanics of a system of identical particles in a way that retains information about quantum statistics. The resulting statistical mechanics can be interpreted as a classical version of Haldane's exclusion statistics.

id: quant-ph/0004109
title: Hidden Variables or Positive Probabilities?
authors: Tony Rothman, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 19 pages, 2 ps files This is a second replacement. In this version we include an analysis of yet another version of Bell's theorem which has been brought to our attention. We also discuss in what sense our results are related to the Wigner distribution
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 40, 1525 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0004109
abstract: Despite claims that Bell's inequalities are based on the Einstein locality condition, or equivalent, all derivations make an identical mathematical assumption: that local hidden-variable theories produce a set of positive-definite probabilities for detecting a particle with a given spin orientation. The standard argument is that because quantum mechanics assumes that particles are emitted in a superposition of states the theory cannot produce such a set of probabilities. We examine a paper by Eberhard, and several similar papers, which claim to show that a generalized Bell inequality, the CHSH inequality, can be derived solely on the basis of the locality condition, without recourse to hidden variables. We point out that these authors nonetheless assumes a set of positive-definite probabilities, which supports the claim that hidden variables or "locality" is not at issue here, positive-definite probabilities are. We demonstrate that quantum mechanics does predict a set of probabilities that violate the CHSH inequality; however these probabilities are not positive-definite. Nevertheless, they are physically meaningful in that they give the usual quantum-mechanical predictions in physical situations. We discuss in what sense our results are related to the Wigner distribution.

id: cond-mat/0004247
title: The Semiclassical Propagator for Spin Coherent States
authors: Michael Stone, Kee-Su Park, Anupam Garg
comments: 37 pages. RevTeX
journal: J.Math.Phys. 41 (2000) 8025-8049
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0004247
abstract: We use a continuous-time path integral to obtain the semiclassical propagator for minimal-spread spin coherent states. We pay particular attention to the ``extra phase'' discovered by Solari and Kochetov, and show that this correction is related to an anomaly in the fluctuation determinant. We show that, once this extra factor is included, the semiclassical propagator has the correct short time behaviour to $O(T^2)$, and demonstrate its consistency under dissection of the path

id: cond-mat/0004459
title: Interplay between Zeeman Coupling and Swap Action in Spin-based Quantum Computer Models: Error Correction in Inhomogeneous Magnetic Fields
authors: Xuedong Hu, Rogerio de Sousa, S. Das Sarma
comments: Revised version. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 86}, 918 (2001).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0004459
abstract: We consider theoretically the interplay between Zeeman coupling and exchange-induced swap action in spin-based quantum dot quantum computer models in the presence of inhomogeneous magnetic fields, which are invariably present in real systems. We estimate quantitatively swap errors caused by the inhomogeneous field, establishing that error correction would, in principle, be possible in the presence of non-uniform magnetic fields in realistic structures.

id: cond-mat/0004472
title: Study of Macroscopic Coherence and Decoherence in the SQUID by Adiabatic Inversion
authors: P. Silvestrini, L. Stodolsky
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A280 (2001) 17-22
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0004472
abstract: We suggest a procedure for demonstrating quantum coherence and measuring decoherence times between different fluxoid states of a SQUID by using ``adiabatic inversion'', where one macroscopic fluxoid state is smoothly transferred into the other, like a spin reversing direction by following a slowly moving magnetic field. This is accomplished by sweeping an external applied flux, and depends on a well-defined quantum phase between the two macroscopic states. Varying the speed of the sweep relative to the decoherence time permits one to move from the quantum regime, where such a well-defined phase exists, to the classical regime where it is lost and the inversion is inhibited. Thus observing whether inversion has taken place or not as a function of sweep speed offers the possibility of measuring the decoherence time. The main requirement for the feasibility of the scheme appears to be that the low temperature relaxation time among the quantum levels of the SQUID be long compared to other time scales of the problem. Applications to the ``quantum computer'', with the level system of the SQUID playing the role of the qbit, are briefly discussed.

id: gr-qc/0004005
title: The quantization of gravity - an introduction
authors: David Wallace
comments: LaTeX; 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0004005
abstract: This is an introduction to quantum gravity, aimed at a fairly general audience and concentrating on what have historically two main approaches to quantum gravity: the covariant and canonical programs (string theory is not covered). The quantization of gravity is discussed by analogy with the quantization of the electromagnetic field. The conceptual and technical problems of both approaches are discussed, and the paper concludes with a discussion of evidence for quantum gravity from the rest of physics. The paper assumes some familiarity with non-relativistic quantum mechanics, special relativity, and the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of classical mechanics; some experience with classical field theory, quantum electrodynamics and the gauge principle in electromagnetism might be helpful but is not required. No knowledge of general relativity or of quantum field theory in general is assumed.

id: gr-qc/0004029
title: Spin half in classical general relativity
authors: Mark J. Hadley
comments: 9 pages. More explanation added - as requested by referees
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 17 (2000) 4187-4194
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0004029
abstract: It is shown that models of elementary particles in classical general relativity (geons) will naturally have the transformation properties of a spinor if the spacetime manifold is not time orientable. From a purely pragmatic interpretation of quantum theory this explains why spinor fields are needed to represent particles. The models are based entirely on classical general relativity and are motivated by the suggestion that the lack of a time-orientation could be the origin of quantum phenomena.

id: gr-qc/0004054
title: A Generalized Equivalence Principle
authors: Holger Lyre
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D9 (2000) 633-648
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0004054
abstract: Gauge field theories may quite generally be defined as describing the coupling of a matter-field to an interaction-field, and they are suitably represented in the mathematical framework of fiber bundles. Their underlying principle is the so-called gauge principle, which is based on the idea of deriving the coupling structure of the fields by satisfying a postulate of local gauge covariance. The gauge principle is generally considered to be sufficient to define the full structure of gauge-field theories. This paper contains a critique of this usual point of view: firstly, by emphazising an gauge theoretic conventionalism which crucially restricts the conceptual role of the gauge principle and, secondly, by introducing a new generalized equivalence principle - the identity of inertial and field charge (as generalizations of inertial and gravitational mass) - in order to give a conceptual justification for combining the equations of motion of the matter-fields and the field equations of the interaction-fields.

id: hep-th/0004032
title: Monopole Chern-Simons Term: Charge-Monopole System as a Particle with Spin
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 27 pages, relation of twistor form of Chern-Simons term to CP^1 model clarified, discussion of relationship with anyons presented in a separate section, acknowledgements and references added, the version to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B589 (2000) 413-439
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0004032
abstract: The topological nature of Chern-Simons term describing the interaction of a charge with magnetic monopole is manifested in two ways: it changes the plane dynamical geometry of a free particle for the cone dynamical geometry without distorting the free (geodesic) character of the motion, and in the limit of zero charge's mass it describes a spin system. This observation allows us to interpret the charge-monopole system alternatively as a free particle of fixed spin with translational and spin degrees of freedom interacting via the helicity constraint, or as a symmetric spinning top with dynamical moment of inertia and "isospin" U(1) gauge symmetry, or as a system with higher derivatives. The last interpretation is used to get the twistor formulation of the system. We show that the reparametrization and scale invariant monopole Chern-Simons term supplied with the kinetic term of the same invariance gives rise to the alternative description for the spin, which is related to the charge-monopole system in a spherical geometry. The relationship between the charge-monopole system and (2+1)-dimensional anyon is discussed in the light of the obtained results.

id: hep-th/0004035
title: On static mirrors interacting with an electromagnetic vacuum
authors: C. Van Den Broeck
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0004035
abstract: Withdrawn due to the absence of an important shear term in Eq. (6), which cancels the other term.

id: hep-th/0004041
title: Comment on Casimir energy for spherical boundaries
authors: I. Brevik, B. Jensen, K. A. Milton
comments: 5 pages, REVTeX. Typographical error corrected, acknowledgements added
journal: Phys.Rev.D64:088701,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0004041
abstract: It is shown that recent criticism by C. R. Hagen (hep-th/9902057) questioning the validity of stress tensor treatments of the Casimir energy for space divided into two parts by a spherical boundary is without foundation.

id: hep-th/0004079
title: Reply to comment on Casimir energy for spherical boundaries
authors: C.R. Hagen
comments: 3 pages, no figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0004079
abstract: It is shown that the recent criticism of Brevik et al. (hep-th/0004041) is in error.

id: hep-th/0004175
title: Canonical Discretization. I. Discrete faces of (an)harmonic oscillator
authors: Alexander Turbiner
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A16 (2001) 1579-1604
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0004175
abstract: A certain notion of canonical equivalence in quantum mechanics is proposed. It is used to relate quantal systems with discrete ones. Discrete systems canonically equivalent to the celebrated harmonic oscillator as well as the quartic and the quasi-exactly-solvable anharmonic oscillators are found. They can be viewed as a translation-covariant discretization of the (an)harmonic oscillator preserving isospectrality. The notion of the $q-$deformation of the canonical equivalence leading to a dilatation-covariant discretization preserving polynomiality of eigenfunctions is also presented.

id: math-ph/0004025
title: Energy and time as conjugate dynamical variables
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: Replaced to write Eqs. (34), (35) in the general form
journal: Can.J.Phys. 78 (2000) 959-967
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0004025
abstract: The energy and time variables of the elementary classical dynamical systems are described geometrically, as canonically conjugate coordinates of an extended phase-space. It is shown that the Galilei action of the inertial equivalence group on this space is canonical, but not Hamiltonian equivariant. Although it has no effect at classical level, the lack of equivariance makes the Galilei action inconsistent with the canonical quantization. A Hamiltonian equivariant action can be obtained by assuming that the inertial parameter in the extended phase-space is quasi-isotropic. This condition leads naturally to the Lorentz transformations between moving frames as a particular case of symplectic transformations. The limit speed appears as a constant factor relating the two additional canonical coordinates to the energy and time. Its value is identified with the speed of light by using the relationship between the electromagnetic potentials and the symplectic form of the extended phase-space.

id: math-ph/0004027
title: Connection Between Type A and E Factorizations and Construction of Satellite Algebras
authors: A. Del Sol Mesa, C. Quesne
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX, no figure, to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 33 (2000) 4059-4071
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0004027
abstract: Recently, we introduced a new class of symmetry algebras, called satellite algebras, which connect with one another wavefunctions belonging to different potentials of a given family, and corresponding to different energy eigenvalues. Here the role of the factorization method in the construction of such algebras is investigated. A general procedure for determining an so(2,2) or so(2,1) satellite algebra for all the Hamiltonians that admit a type E factorization is proposed. Such a procedure is based on the known relationship between type A and E factorizations, combined with an algebraization similar to that used in the construction of potential algebras. It is illustrated with the examples of the generalized Morse potential, the Rosen-Morse potential, the Kepler problem in a space of constant negative curvature, and, in each case, the conserved quantity is identified. It should be stressed that the method proposed is fairly general since the other factorization types may be considered as limiting cases of type A or E factorizations.

id: math/0004143
title: General Spinor Structures on Quantum Spaces
authors: Micho Durdevich
comments: 40 pages, AMSLaTeX; Visit this http URL for the latest versions of this and related author's papers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0004143
abstract: A general theory of quantum spinor structures on quantum spaces is presented, within the conceptual framework of the formalism of quantum principal bundles. Quantum analogs of all basic objects of the classical theory are constructed and analyzed. This includes Laplace and Dirac operators, quantum versions of Clifford and spinor bundles, a Hodge *-operator, appropriate integration operators, and mutual relations of these objects. We also present a self-contained formalism of braided Clifford algebras. Quantum phenomena appearing in the theory are discussed, including a very interesting example of the Dirac operator associated to a quantum Hopf fibration.

id: physics/0004016
title: Fast Algorithm for Finding the Eigenvalue Distribution of Very Large Matrices
authors: Anthony Hams, Hans De Raedt
comments: 24 pages, 24 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E62 4365-4377 (2000)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0004016
abstract: A theoretical analysis is given of the equation of motion method, due to Alben et al., to compute the eigenvalue distribution (density of states) of very large matrices. The salient feature of this method is that for matrices of the kind encountered in quantum physics the memory and CPU requirements of this method scale linearly with the dimension of the matrix. We derive a rigorous estimate of the statistical error, supporting earlier observations that the computational efficiency of this approach increases with matrix size. We use this method and an imaginary-time version of it to compute the energy and the specific heat of three different, exactly solvable, spin-1/2 models and compare with the exact results to study the dependence of the statistical errors on sample and matrix size.

id: physics/0004055
title: Inquiries into the Nature of Free Energy and Entropy in Respect to Biochemical Thermodynamics
authors: Clinton D. Stoner
comments: 18-page PDF; major correction in APPENDIX; minor corrections elsewhere
journal: Entropy 2000, 2, 106-141 [www.mdpi.org/entropy]
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0004055
abstract: Free energy and entropy are examined in detail from the standpoint of classical thermodynamics. The approach is logically based on the fact that thermodynamic work is mediated by thermal energy through the tendency for nonthermal energy to convert spontaneously into thermal energy and for thermal energy to distribute spontaneously and uniformly within the accessible space. The fact that free energy is a Second-Law, expendable energy that makes it possible for thermodynamic work to be done at finite rates is emphasized. Entropy, as originally defined, is pointed out to be the capacity factor for thermal energy that is hidden with respect to temperature; it serves to evaluate the practical quality of thermal energy and to account for changes in the amounts of latent thermal energies in systems maintained at constant temperature. A major objective was to clarify the means by which free energy is transferred and conserved in sequences of biological reactions coupled by freely diffusible intermediates. In achieving this objective it was found necessary to distinguish between a 'characteristic free energy' possessed by all First-Law energies in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the energies themselves and a 'free energy of concentration' that is intrinsically mechanical and relatively elusive in that it can appear to be free of First-Law energy. The findings in this regard serve to clarify the fact that the transfer of chemical potential energy from one repository to another along sequences of biological reactions of the above sort occurs through transfer of the First-Law energy as thermal energy and transfer of the Second-Law energy as free energy of concentration.

