id: quant-ph/0007001
title: Scaling Considerations in Ground State Quantum Computation
authors: Ari Mizel, M. W. Mitchell, Marvin L. Cohen
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007001
abstract: We study design challenges associated with realizing a ground state quantum computer. In such a computer, the energy gap between the ground state and first excited state must be sufficiently large to prevent disruptive excitations. Here, an estimate is provided of this gap as a function of computer size. We then address the problem of detecting the output of a ground state quantum computer. It is shown that the exponential detection difficulties that appear to be present at first can be overcome in a straightforward manner by small design changes.

id: quant-ph/0007002
title: Quantum mechanical Carnot engine
authors: C.M. Bender, D.C. Brody, B.K. Meister
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 33, 4427-4436, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007002
abstract: A cyclic thermodynamic heat engine runs most efficiently if it is reversible. Carnot constructed such a reversible heat engine by combining adiabatic and isothermal processes for a system containing an ideal gas. Here, we present an example of a cyclic engine based on a single quantum-mechanical particle confined to a potential well. The efficiency of this engine is shown to equal the Carnot efficiency because quantum dynamics is reversible. The quantum heat engine has a cycle consisting of adiabatic and isothermal quantum processes that are close analogues of the corresponding classical processes.

id: quant-ph/0007003
title: Continuous optical loading of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: L. Santos, F. Floegel, T. Pfau, M. Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007003
abstract: The continuous pumping of atoms into a Bose-Einstein condensate via spontaneous emission from a thermal reservoir is analyzed. We consider the case of atoms with a three-level $\Lambda$ scheme, in which one of the atomic transitions has a very much shorter life-time than the other one. We found that in such scenario the photon reabsorption in dense clouds can be considered negligible. If in addition inelastic processes can be neglected, we find that optical pumping can be used to continuously load and refill Bose-Einstein condensates, i.e. provides a possible way to achieve a continuous atom laser.

id: quant-ph/0007004
title: Phase-Control of Photoabsorption in Optically Dense Media
authors: David Petrosyan, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 1843 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007004
abstract: We present a self-consistent theory, as well as an illustrative application to a realistic system, of phase control of photoabsorption in an optically dense medium. We demonstrate that, when propagation effects are taken into consideration, the impact on phase control is significant. Independently of the value of the initial phase difference between the two fields, over a short scaled distance of propagation, the medium tends to settle the relative phase so that it cancels the atomic excitation. In addition, we find some rather unusual behavior for an optically thin layer.

id: quant-ph/0007005
title: Locality and Bell's inequality
authors: Luigi Accardi, Massimo Regoli
comments: 23 pages, Plain TeX, A talk given at Capri conference, July 2000, Corrected and Extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007005
abstract: We prove that the locality condition is irrelevant to Bell in equality. We check that the real origin of the Bell's inequality is the assumption of applicability of classical (Kolmogorovian) probability theory to quantum mechanics. We describe the chameleon effect which allows to construct an experiment realizing a local, realistic, classical, deterministic and macroscopic violation of the Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0007006
title: Mermin's n-particle Bell inequality and operators' noncommutativity
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 286 (2001) 376-382
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007006
abstract: The relationship between the noncommutativity of operators and the violation of the Bell inequality is exhibited in the light of the n-particle Bell-type inequality discovered by Mermin [PRL 65, 1838 (1990)]. It is shown, in particular, that the maximal amount of violation of Mermin's inequality predicted by quantum mechanics decreases exponentially by a factor of 2^{-m/2} whenever any m among the n single-particle commutators happen to vanish.

id: quant-ph/0007007
title: Stochastic limit approximation for rapidly decaying systems
authors: Gen Kimura, Kazuya Yuasa, Kentaro Imafuku
comments: REVTeX, 6 pages; To be published in Phys. Rev. A 63 (Feb. 2000)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 022103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007007
abstract: The stochastic limit approximation method for ``rapid'' decay is presented, where the damping rate \gamma is comparable to the system frequency \Omega, i.e., \gamma \sim \Omega, whereas the usual stochastic limit approximation is applied only to the weak damping situation \gamma << \Omega. The key formulas for rapid decay are very similar to those for weak damping, but the dynamics is quite different. From a microscopic Hamiltonian, the spin-boson model, a Bloch equation containing two independent time scales is derived. This is a useful method to extract the minimal dissipative dynamics at high temperature kT >> \hbar\Omega and the master equations obtained are of the Lindblad form even for the Caldeira-Leggett model. The validity of the method is confirmed by comparing the master equation derived through this method with the exact one.

id: quant-ph/0007008
title: The speed of quantum information and the preferred frame: analysis of experimental data
authors: Valerio Scarani, Wolfgang Tittel, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 9 pages including 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 276 2000 1-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007008
abstract: The results of EPR experiments performed in Geneva are analyzed in the frame of the cosmic microwave background radiation, generally considered as a good candidate for playing the role of preferred frame. We set a lower bound for the speed of quantum information in this frame at 1.5 x 10^4 c.

id: quant-ph/0007009
title: Experimental test of non-local quantum correlation in relativistic configurations
authors: H. Zbinden, J. Brendel, N. Gisin, W. Tittel
comments: 26 pages including 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007009
abstract: We report on a new kind of experimental investigations of the tension between quantum nonlocally and relativity. Entangled photons are sent via an optical fiber network to two villages near Geneva, separated by more than 10 km where they are analyzed by interferometers. The photon pair source is set as precisely as possible in the center so that the two photons arrive at the detectors within a time interval of less than 5 ps (corresponding to a path length difference of less than 1 mm). One detector is set in motion so that both detectors, each in its own inertial reference frame, are first to do the measurement! The data always reproduces the quantum correlations, making it thus more difficult to consider the projection postulate as a compact description of real collapses of the wave-function.

id: quant-ph/0007010
title: Space-Time Structure as Hidden Variable
authors: Bart Jongejan
comments: 9 pages, TeX, 6 GIF figures, hereof 5 stereograms. Print quality eps figures available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007010
abstract: EPR correlations exist and can be observed independently of any a priori given frame of reference. We can even construct a frame of reference that is based on these correlations. This observation-based frame of reference is equivalent to the customary a priori given frame of reference of the laboratory when describing real EPR experiments. J.S. Bell has argued that local hidden parameter theories that reproduce the predictions of Quantum Mechanics cannot exist, but the counterfactual reasoning leading to Bell's conclusion is physically meaningless if the frame of reference that is based on EPR-correlations is accepted as the backdrop for EPR-type experiments. The refutal of Bell's proof opens up for the construction of a viable hidden parameter theory. A model of a spin h/2 particle in terms of a non-flat metric of space-time is shown to be able to reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics in the Bohm-Aharonov version of the EPR experiment, without introducing non-locality.

id: quant-ph/0007011
title: Entropic uncertainty relation for power-law wave packets
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, S. Martinez, F. Pennini, A. Plastino
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 295, 74 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007011
abstract: For the power-law quantum wave packet in configuration space, the variance of the position observable may be divergent. Accordingly, the information-entropic formulation of the uncertainty principle becomes more appropriate than the Heisenberg-type formulation, since it involves only the finite quantities. It is found that the total amount of entropic uncertainty converges to its lower bound in the limit of a large value of the exponent.

id: quant-ph/0007012
title: Creating macroscopic atomic EPR states from Bose condensates
authors: H. Pu, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007012
abstract: We present a scheme for creating quantum entangled atomic states through the coherent spin-exchange collision of a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate. The state generated possesses macroscopic Einstein-Podolsky-Roson correlation and the fluctuation in one of its quasi-spin components vanishes. We show that an elongated condensate with large aspect ratio is most suitable for creating such a state.

id: quant-ph/0007013
title: Decoherence-Free Subspaces for Multiple-Qubit Errors: (II) Universal, Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel A. Lidar, Dave Bacon, Julia Kempe, K.B. Whaley
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures. Sequel to quant-ph/9908064
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 022307 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007013
abstract: Decoherence-free subspaces (DFSs) shield quantum information from errors induced by the interaction with an uncontrollable environment. Here we study a model of correlated errors forming an Abelian subgroup (stabilizer) of the Pauli group (the group of tensor products of Pauli matrices). Unlike previous studies of DFSs, this type of errors does not involve any spatial symmetry assumptions on the system-environment interaction. We solve the problem of universal, fault-tolerant quantum computation on the associated class of DFSs.

id: quant-ph/0007014
title: Quantum coherence and interaction-free measurements
authors: S. Potting, E.S. Lee, W. Schmitt, I. Rumyantsev, B. Mohring, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages incl. 2 PostScript figures (.eps), LaTeX using RevTeX, submitted to Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Comm.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62 (2000) 060101(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007014
abstract: We investigate the extent to which ``interaction-free'' measurements perturb the state of quantum systems. We show that the absence of energy exchange during the measurement is not a sufficient criterion to preserve that state, as the quantum system is subject to measurement dependent decoherence. While it is possible in general to design interaction-free measurement schemes that do preserve that state, the requirement of quantum coherence preservation rapidly leads to a very low efficiency. Our results, which have a simple interpretation in terms of ``which-way'' arguments, open up the way to novel quantum non-demolition techniques.

id: quant-ph/0007015
title: Stochastic mechanics and the Feynman integral
authors: Michele Pavon
comments: 21 pages
journal: J. Math. Physics, 41 (2000), 6060-6078.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007015
abstract: The Feynman integral is given a stochastic interpretation in the framework of Nelson's stochastic mechanics employing a time-symmetric variant of Nelson's kinematics recently developed by the author.

id: quant-ph/0007016
title: Quantum Algorithms for Element Distinctness
authors: Harry Buhrman, Christoph Durr, Mark Heiligman, Peter Hoyer, Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 15 pages. Supersedes quant-ph/007016v1 and quant-ph/0006136
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007016
abstract: We present several applications of quantum amplitude amplification to finding claws and collisions in ordered or unordered functions. Our algorithms generalize those of Brassard, Hoyer, and Tapp, and imply an O(N^{3/4} log N) quantum upper bound for the element distinctness problem in the comparison complexity model (contrasting with Theta(N log N) classical complexity). We also prove a lower bound of Omega(N^{1/2}) comparisons for this problem and derive bounds for a number of related problems.

id: quant-ph/0007017
title: Experimental Realization of an Order-Finding Algorithm with an NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Lieven M.K. Vandersypen, Matthias Steffen, Gregory Breyta, Costantino S. Yannoni, Richard Cleve, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 25, 5452-5455 (18 Dec 2000). Substantial changes in the presentation. Results and conclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007017
abstract: We report the realization of a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer which combines the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) with exponentiated permutations, demonstrating a quantum algorithm for order-finding. This algorithm has the same structure as Shor's algorithm and its speed-up over classical algorithms scales exponentially. The implementation uses a particularly well-suited five quantum bit molecule and was made possible by a new state initialization procedure and several quantum control techniques.

id: quant-ph/0007018
title: Simultaneous decomposition of two states
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: 7 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 46 (2000) 319 - 324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007018
abstract: Simultaneous decompositions of a pair of states into pure ones are examined. There are privileged decompositions which are distinguished from all the other ones.

id: quant-ph/0007019
title: Non-locality and quantum theory: new experimental evidence
authors: Luigi Accardi, Massimo Regoli
comments: 21 pages, Plain TeX, 9 eps pictures A talk given at Nottingham conference, July 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007019
abstract: Starting from the late 60's many experiments have been performed to verify the violation Bell's inequality by Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type correlations. The idea of these experiments being that: (i) Bell's inequality is a consequence of locality, hence its experimental violation is an indication of non locality; (ii) this violation is a typical quantum phenomenon because any classical system making local choices (either deterministic or random) will produce correlations satisfying this inequality. Both statements (i) and (ii) have been criticized by quantum probability on theoretical grounds (not discussed in the present paper) and the experiment discussed below has been devised to support these theoretical arguments. We emphasize that the goal of our experiment is not to reproduce classically the EPR correlations but to prove that there exist perfectly local classical dynamical systems violating Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0007020
title: The decoherence criterion
authors: Eleonora Alfinito, Rosario G. Viglione, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: revised paper, in print on Mod. Phys. Lett. B
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. B15 (2001) 127-136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007020
abstract: The decoherence mechanism signals the limits beyond which the system dynamics approaches the classical behavior. We show that in some cases decoherence may also signal the limits beyond which the system dynamics has to be described by quantum field theory, rather than by quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0007021
title: The Quantum Complexity of Set Membership
authors: Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, Pranab Sen, S. Venkatesh
comments: 19 pages, a preliminary version appeared in FOCS 2000. This is the journal version, which will appear in Algorithmica (Special issue on Quantum Computation and Quantum Cryptography). This version corrects some bugs in the parameters of some theorems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007021
abstract: We study the quantum complexity of the static set membership problem: given a subset S (|S| \leq n) of a universe of size m (m \gg n), store it as a table of bits so that queries of the form `Is x \in S?' can be answered. The goal is to use a small table and yet answer queries using few bitprobes. This problem was considered recently by Buhrman, Miltersen, Radhakrishnan and Venkatesh, where lower and upper bounds were shown for this problem in the classical deterministic and randomized models. In this paper, we formulate this problem in the "quantum bitprobe model" and show tradeoff results between space and time.In this model, the storage scheme is classical but the query scheme is quantum.We show, roughly speaking, that similar lower bounds hold in the quantum model as in the classical model, which imply that the classical upper bounds are more or less tight even in the quantum case. Our lower bounds are proved using linear algebraic techniques.

id: quant-ph/0007022
title: Quantum Recurrences: Probe to study Quantum Chaos
authors: Farhan Saif
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007022
abstract: We study the phase space of periodically modulated gravitational cavity by means of quantum recurrence phenomena. We report that the quantum recurrences serve as a tool to connect phase space of the driven system with spectrum in quantum domain. With the help of quantum recurrences we investigate the quasi-energy spectrum of the system for a certain fixed modulation strength. In addition, we study transition of spectrum from discrete to continuum as a function of modulation strength.

id: quant-ph/0007023
title: What can biology bestow to quantum mechanics?
authors: M.V.Altaisky
comments: AMSLaTex, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007023
abstract: The biological hierarchy and the differences between living and non-living matter are considered from the standpoint of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0007024
title: Security of Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 62, 062306 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007024
abstract: We discuss a quantum key distribution scheme in which small phase and amplitude modulations of CW light beams carry the key information. The presence of EPR type correlations provides the quantum protection. We identify universal constraints on the level of shared information between the intended receiver (Bob) and any eavesdropper (Eve) and use this to make a general evaluation of security. We identify teleportation as an optimum eavesdropping technique.

id: quant-ph/0007025
title: Interference and the lossless lossy beam splitter
authors: John Jeffers
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, to appear in J. Mod. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007025
abstract: By directing the input light into a particular mode it is possible to obtain as output all of the input light for a beam splitter that is 50% absorbing. This effect is also responsible for nonlinear quantum interference when two photons are incident on the beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0007026
title: Quantum Holographic Teleportation of Light Fields
authors: I. V. Sokolov, M. I. Kolobov, A. Gatti, L. A. Lugiato
comments: 5 pages, Latex (Revtex), 1 Postscript figure, uses epsfig.sty, epsf.tex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007026
abstract: We describe a continious variable teleportation scheme that allows to teleport the quantum state of distributed in space-time multimode electromagnetic field. Our teleportation protocol uses the spatially-multimode entangled Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen lihgt beams. We evaluate the "resolving power" of teleportation in space-time and specify the degrees of freedom of electromagnetic field whose quantum state can be effectively teleported. We call this scheme "quantum holographic teleportation" because it can be considered as an extension of conventional holography to quantum domain.

id: quant-ph/0007027
title: Real inertons against hypothetical gravitons. Experimental proof of the existence of inertons
authors: Volodymyr Krasnoholovets, Valery Byckov
comments: LaTeX 2e, 3 Figures (electron micrographs, big *.eps files), 18 pages
journal: IndianJ.Theor.Phys.48:1-23,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007027
abstract: Previously, one of the authors has suggested [Phys. Essays, vol. 6, 554 (1993); vol. 10, 407 (1997)] a mechanism of the particle motion within the framework of a vacuum regarded as an original cellular medium, i.e. quantum aether. The existence of special elementary excitations of the aether medium -- inertons -- around the particle has been the main peculiarity of that mechanism. The present paper treats the impact of inertons on the collective behaviour of atoms in a solid. It is shown that inertons should contribute to the effective potential of interaction of atoms in the crystal lattice. The possibility of separating this inerton contribution from the value of the atom vibration amplitude is analysed. The experiment which assumes the presence of the hypothetical inerton field is performed. The expected changes in the structure of the test specimens caused by this field are in fact convincingly fixed in micrographs.

id: quant-ph/0007028
title: Three dimensional time and energy operators and an uncertainty relation
authors: Hitoshi Kitada
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007028
abstract: Three dimensional time and energy operators are introduced and an uncertainty relation between them is proved.

id: quant-ph/0007029
title: Comment on "Thermal Effects on the Casimir Force in the 0.1-5 micrometer Range"
authors: Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: Final version (two previous versions, first was partly incorrect) Rejected by PRL!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007029
abstract: In a recent paper (M. Bostrom and Bo E. Sernelius, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 4757 (2000)) the combined effect of finite conductivity and finite temperature on the Casimir force is analyzed, and significant deviations from other theoretical results and a recent experiment are obtained. In this Comment, I show that the extrapolation to zero frequency is incorrect because the authors have neglected that the wavenumber and frequency of the electromagentic mode must simultaneously appraoch zero

id: quant-ph/0007030
title: A reply to "Quantum Clock Synchronization"
authors: Eric Burt, Chris Ekstrom, Tom Swanson
comments: 3 pages, a reply to quant-ph/0004105
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007030
abstract: Recently a protocol for Quantum Clock Synchronization (QCS) of remote clocks using quantum entanglement was proposed by Jozsa et al. This method has the goal of eliminating the random noise present in classical synchronization techniques. However, as stated QCS depends on the two members of each entangled pair undergoing the same unitary evolution even while being transported to different locations. This is essentially equivalent to a perfect Eddington Slow Clock Transfer protocol and thus, not an improvement over classical techniques. We will discuss this and suggest ways in which QCS may still be used.

id: quant-ph/0007031
title: Analytic Expression for Exact Ground State Energy Based on an Operator Method for a Class of Anharmonic Potentials
authors: L.C. Kwek, Yong Liu, C.H. Oh, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: LaTeX with six figure (gif) files; Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007031
abstract: A general procedure based on shift operators is formulated to deal with anharmonic potentials. It is possible to extract the ground state energy analytically using our method provided certain consistency relations are satisfied. Analytic expressions for the exact ground state energy have also been derived specifically for a large class of the one-dimensional oscillator with cubic-quartic anharmonic terms. Our analytical results can be used to check the accuracy of existing numerical methods, for instance the method of state-dependent diagonalization. Our results also agree with the asymptotic behavior in the divergent pertubative expansion of quartic harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0007032
title: Photon antibunching in the fluorescence of individual color centers in diamond
authors: Rosa Brouri, Alexios Beveratos, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Philippe Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 25, 1294 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007032
abstract: We have observed photon antibunching in the fluorescence light emitted from a single N-V center in diamond at room temperature. The possibility of generating triggerable single photons with such a solide state system is discussed

id: quant-ph/0007033
title: Squeezing of electromagnetic field in a cavity by electrons in Trojan states
authors: Piotr Kochanski, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula, Iwo Bialynicki-Birula
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007033
abstract: The notion of the Trojan state of a Rydberg electron, introduced by I.Bialynicki-Birula, M.Kali\'nski, and J.H.Eberly (Phys. Rev. Lett. 73, 1777 (1994)) is extended to the case of the electromagnetic field quantized in acavity. The shape of the electronic wave packet describing the Trojan state is practically the same as in the previously studied externally driven system. The fluctuations of the quantized electromagnetic field around its classical value exhibit strong squeezing. The emergence of Trojan states in the cylindrically symmetrical system is attributed to spontaneous symmetry braking.

id: quant-ph/0007034
title: Quantum-Information Processing with Semiconductor Macroatoms
authors: Eliana Biolatti, Rita C. Iotti, Paolo Zanardi, Fausto Rossi
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett., significant changes in the text and new simulations (figure 3)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 5647 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007034
abstract: An all optical implementation of quantum information processing with semiconductor macroatoms is proposed. Our quantum hardware consists of an array of semiconductor quantum dots and the computational degrees of freedom are energy-selected interband optical transitions. The proposed quantum-computing strategy exploits exciton-exciton interactions driven by ultrafast sequences of multi-color laser pulses. Contrary to existing proposals based on charge excitations, the present all-optical implementation does not require the application of time-dependent electric fields, thus allowing for a sub-picosecond, i.e. decoherence-free, operation time-scale in realistic state-of-the-art semiconductor nanostructures.

id: quant-ph/0007035
title: Quantum deletion is possible via a partial randomization procedure
authors: E. Elizalde
comments: 8 pages, no figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007035
abstract: An alternative kind of deleting/erasing operation is introduced which differs from the commonly used {\it controlled-not} (C-not) conditional logical operation $-$to flip to a standard, `zero' value the (classical or quantum) state of the last copy in a chain, in a deletion process. It is completely reversible, in the classical case, possessing a most natural cloning operation counterpart. We call this deleting procedure R-deletion since, in a way, it can be viewed as a `randomization' of the standard C-not operator. It has the remarkable property of by-passing in a simple manner the `impossibility of deletion of a quantum state' principle, put forward by Pati and Braunstein recently \cite{pbn1}.

id: quant-ph/0007036
title: Quantum versus Classical Learnability
authors: Rocco A. Servedio, Steven J. Gortler
comments: 16 pages, no figures, LaTeX file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007036
abstract: We consider quantum versions of two well-studied classical learning models: Angluin's model of exact learning from membership queries and Valiant's Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) model of learning from random examples. We give positive and negative results for quantum versus classical learnability. For each of the two learning models described above, we show that any concept class is information-theoretically learnable from polynomially many quantum examples if and only if it is information-theoretically learnable from polynomially many classical examples. In contrast to this information-theoretic equivalence betwen quantum and classical learnability, though, we observe that a separation does exist between efficient quantum and classical learnability. For both the model of exact learning from membership queries and the PAC model, we show that under a widely held computational hardness assumption for classical computation (the intractability of factoring), there is a concept class which is polynomial-time learnable in the quantum version but not in the classical version of the model.

id: quant-ph/0007037
title: Single photon generation by pulsed excitation of a single dipole
authors: Rosa Brouri, Alexios Beveratos, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Philippe Grangier
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev . A 62, 063817 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007037
abstract: The fluorescence of a single dipole excited by an intense light pulse can lead to the generation of another light pulse containing a single photon. The influence of the duration and energy of the excitation pulse on the number of photons in the fluorescence pulse is studied. The case of a two-level dipole with strongly damped coherences is considered. The presence of a metastable state leading to shelving is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0007038
title: Multi-Player Quantum Games
authors: Simon C. Benjamin, Patrick M. Hayden
comments: 5 pages, 2 figs. Substantial revisons inc. new results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64(3):030301, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007038
abstract: Recently the concept of quantum information has been introduced into game theory. Here we present the first study of quantum games with more than two players. We discover that such games can possess a new form of equilibrium strategy, one which has no analogue either in traditional games or even in two-player quantum games. In these `pure' coherent equilibria, entanglement shared among multiple players enables new kinds of cooperative behavior: indeed it can act as a contract, in the sense that it prevents players from successfully betraying one-another.

id: quant-ph/0007039
title: Loading a continuous-wave atom laser by optical pumping techniques
authors: Satyan Bhongale, Murray Holland
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007039
abstract: Demonstrating that despite loss processes, Bose-Einstein condensates can be formed in steady state is a prerequisite for obtaining a coherent beam of atoms in a continuous-wave atom laser. In this paper we propose a method for loading atoms into the thermal component of a Bose condensed cloud confined in a magnetic trap. This method is aimed at allowing steady state dynamics to be achieved. The proposed scheme involves loading atoms into the conservative magnetic potential using the spontaneous emission of photons. We show that the probability for the reabsorption of these photons may be small .

id: quant-ph/0007040
title: Experimental realization of a highly structured search algorithm
authors: Xiwen Zhu, Ximing Fang, Mang Feng, Fei Du, Kelin Gao, Xi'an Mao
comments: RevTex, 11 pages + 3 pages of figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007040
abstract: The highly structured search algorithm proposed by Hogg[Phys.Rev.Lett. 80,2473(1998)] is implemented experimentally for the 1-SAT problem in a single search step by using nuclear magnetic resonance technique with two-qubit sample. It is the first demonstration of the Hogg's algorithm, and can be readily extended to solving 1-SAT problem for more qubits in one step if the appropriate samples possessing more qubits are experimentally feasible.

id: quant-ph/0007041
title: Why the Disjunction in Quantum Logic is Not Classical
authors: Diederik Aerts, Ellie D'Hondt, Liane Gabora
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 30, Issue 10, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007041
abstract: The quantum logical `or' is analyzed from a physical perspective. We show that it is the existence of EPR-like correlation states for the quantum mechanical entity under consideration that make it nonequivalent to the classical situation. Specifically, the presence of potentiality in these correlation states gives rise to the quantum deviation from the classical logical `or'. We show how this arises not only in the microworld, but also in macroscopic situations where EPR-like correlation states are present. We investigate how application of this analysis to concepts could alleviate some well known problems in cognitive science.

id: quant-ph/0007042
title: Optimal distillation of a GHZ state
authors: A. Acin, E. Jane, W. Dur, G. Vidal
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, 2 figures. Published version, some references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 4811
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007042
abstract: We present the optimal local protocol to distill a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state from a single copy of any pure state of three qubits.

id: quant-ph/0007043
title: Rapid solution of problems by nuclear-magnetic-resonance quantum computation
authors: John M. Myers, A. F. Fahmy, S. J.Glaser, R. Marx
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007043
abstract: We offer an improved method for using a nuclear-magnetic-resonance quantum computer (NMRQC) to solve the Deutsch-Jozsa problem. Two known obstacles to the application of the NMRQC are exponential diminishment of density-matrix elements with the number of bits, threatening weak signal levels, and the high cost of preparing a suitable starting state. A third obstacle is a heretofore unnoticed restriction on measurement operators available for use by an NMRQC. Variations on the function classes of the Deutsch-Jozsa problem are introduced, both to extend the range of problems advantageous for quantum computation and to escape all three obstacles to use of an NMRQC. By adapting it to one such function class, the Deutsch-Jozsa problem is made solvable without exponential loss of signal. The method involves an extra work bit and a polynomially more involved Oracle; it uses the thermal-equilibrium density matrix systematically for an arbitrary number of spins, thereby avoiding both the preparation of a pseudopure state and temporal averaging.

id: quant-ph/0007044
title: The Violation of Bell Inequalities in the Macroworld
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sven Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Liane Gabora
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 30(10), 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007044
abstract: We show that Bell inequalities can be violated in the macroscopic world. The macroworld violation is illustrated using an example involving connected vessels of water. We show that whether the violation of inequalities occurs in the microworld or in the macroworld, it is the identification of nonidentical events that plays a crucial role. Specifically, we prove that if nonidentical events are consistently differentiated, Bell-type Pitowsky inequalities are no longer violated, even for Bohm's example of two entangled spin 1/2 quantum particles. We show how Bell inequalities can be violated in cognition, specifically in the relationship between abstract concepts and specific instances of these concepts. This supports the hypothesis that genuine quantum structure exists in the mind. We introduce a model where the amount of nonlocality and the degree of quantum uncertainty are parameterized, and demonstrate that increasing nonlocality increases the degree of violation, while increasing quantum uncertainty decreases the degree of violation.

id: quant-ph/0007045
title: A Rosetta Stone for Quantum Mechanics with an Introduction to Quantum Computation
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco
comments: 95 pages, LaTeX with 2 figures as well as 4 graphics files embedded as text on pages 16,17,19,20,27,33. AMS Short Course website at this http URL To appear in AMS PSAPM vol. entitled "Quantum Computation."
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007045
abstract: The purpose of these lecture notes is to provide readers, who have some mathematical background but little or no exposure to quantum mechanics and quantum computation, with enough material to begin reading the research literature in quantum computation and quantum information theory. This paper is a written version of the first of eight one hour lectures given in the American Mathematical Society (AMS) Short Course on Quantum Computation held in conjunction with the Annual Meeting of the AMS in Washington, DC, USA in January 2000, and will appear in the AMS PSAPM volume entitled "Quantum Computation." Part 1 of the paper is an introduction the to the concept of the qubit. Part 2 gives an introduction to quantum mechanics covering such topics as Dirac notation, quantum measurement, Heisenberg uncertainty, Schrodinger's equation, density operators, partial trace, multipartite quantum systems, the Heisenberg versus the Schrodinger picture, quantum entanglement, EPR paradox, quantum entropy. Part 3 gives a brief introduction to quantum computation, covering such topics as elementary quantum computing devices, wiring diagrams, the no-cloning theorem, quantum teleportation, Shor's algorithm, Grover's algorithm. Many examples are given. A table of contents as well as an index are provided for readers who wish to "pick and choose." Since this paper is intended for a diverse audience, it is written in an informal style at varying levels of difficulty and sophistication from the very elementary to the more advanced.

id: quant-ph/0007046
title: Calibration of Local Chiralities and Time-Arrows Based on Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 3pp, RevTeX, 2nd version with relevant corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007046
abstract: Unlike classical physics, quantum mechnanics is sensitive to mistaken choice of chiralities or time-arrows of local reference systems. Quantum correlations between distant electron spins, for instance, would reveal a mistaken local chirality. Local polarization measurements and classical communication enable the distant partners to compare their local chiralities. Local time-arrows can be calibrated in a similar way.

id: quant-ph/0007047
title: The Liar-paradox in a Quantum Mechanical Perspective
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Sonja Smets
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Foundations of Science, 4 (2), 1999, 115-132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007047
abstract: In this paper we concentrate on the nature of the liar paradox as a cognitive entity; a consistently testable configuration of properties. We elaborate further on a quantum mechanical model [Aerts, Broekaert, Smets 1999] that has been proposed to analyze the dynamics involved, and we focus on the interpretation and concomitant philosophical picture. Some conclusions we draw from our model favor an effective realistic interpretation of cognitive reality.

id: quant-ph/0007048
title: Squeezing and entanglement of atomic beams
authors: L.-M. Duan, A. S?rensen, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3991 (2000).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007048
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme for generating entangled atomic beams out of a Bose-Einstein condensate using spin-exchanging collisions. In particular, we show how to create both atomic squeezed states and entangled states of pairs of atoms.

id: quant-ph/0007049
title: Reconstruction of SU(1,1) States
authors: G. S. Agarwal, J. Banerji
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007049
abstract: We show how group symmetries can be used to reconstruct quantum states. In our scheme for SU(1,1) states, the input field passes through a non-degenerate parametric amplifier and one measures the probability of finding the output state with a certain number (usually zero) of photons in each mode. The density matrix in the Fock basis is retrieved from the measured data by least squares method after singular value decomposition of the design matrix. Several illustrative examples involving the reconstruction of a pair coherent state, a Perelomov coherent state, and a coherent superposition of pair coherent states are considered.

id: quant-ph/0007050
title: Conditional quantum state engineering in repeated 2-photon down conversion
authors: J. Clausen, H. Hansen, L. Knoll, J. Mlynek, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, using a4.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007050
abstract: The U(1,1) and U(2) transformations realized by three-mode interaction in the respective parametric approximations are studied in conditional measurement, and the corresponding non-unitary transformation operators are derived. As an application, the preparation of single-mode quantum states using an optical feedback loop is discussed, with special emphasis of Fock state preparation. For that example, the influence of non-perfect detection and feedback is also considered.

id: quant-ph/0007051
title: Performances of Block Codes Attaining the Expurgated and Cutoff Rate Lower Bounds on the Error Exponent of Binary Classical-Quantum Channels
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Dejan E. Lazic, Thomas Beth
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007051
abstract: A conceptually simple method for derivation of lower bounds on the error exponent of specific families of block codes used on classical-quantum channels with arbitrary signal states over a finite Hilbert space is presented. It is shown that families of binary block codes with appropriately rescaled binomial multiplicity enumerators used on binary classical-quantum channels and decoded by the suboptimal decision rule introduced by Holevo attain the expurgated and cutoff rate lower bounds on the error exponent.

id: quant-ph/0007052
title: Decoherence and the rate of entropy production in chaotic quantum systems
authors: Diana Monteoliva, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: Revtex, 4 pages, 3 figures included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007052
abstract: We show that for an open quantum system which is classically chaotic (a quartic double well with harmonic driving coupled to a sea of harmonic oscillators) the rate of entropy production has, as a function of time, two relevant regimes: For short times it is proportional to the diffusion coefficient (fixed by the system--environment coupling strength). For longer times (but before equilibration) there is a regime where the entropy production rate is fixed by the Lyapunov exponent. The nature of the transition time between both regimes is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0007053
title: Remarks on 2-q-bit states
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Nasser Metwally
comments: 17 pages
journal: Applied Physics B, vol. 72, 2001, pp. 35-42
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007053
abstract: We distinguish six classes of families of locally equivalent states in a straightforward scheme for classifying all 2-q-bit states; four of the classes consist of two subclasses each. The simple criteria that we stated recently for checking a given state's positivity and separability are justified, and we discuss some important properties of Lewenstein-Sanpera decompositions. An upper bound is conjectured for the sum of the degree of separability of a 2-q-bit state and its concurrence.

id: quant-ph/0007054
title: Quantum Message Disruption: A Two-State Model
authors: Paul B. Kantor
comments: Created with Scientific Word
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007054
abstract: A game in which one player makes unitary transformations of a simple system, and another seeks to confound the resulting state by a randomly chosen action is analyzed carefully. It is shown that the second player can reduce any system to a completely random one by rotation through an angle of 120 degrees, about an axis chosen at random. If, on the other hand, the second player is forced to behave ``classically'' by reducing the wave function, then the first play retains an advantage, which the second player may eliminate by repeated measurement using randomly selected bases.

id: quant-ph/0007055
title: Landau levels on a torus
authors: Enrico Onofri
comments: 10 pages, two color eps-files
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 40 (2001) 537-549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007055
abstract: Landau levels have represented a very rich field of research, which has gained widespread attention after their application to quantum Hall effect. In a particular gauge, the holomorphic gauge, they give a physical implementation of Bargmann's Hilbert space of entire functions. They have also been recognized as a natural bridge between Feynman's path integral and Geometric Quantization. We discuss here some mathematical subtleties involved in the formulation of the problem when one tries to study quantum mechanics on a finite strip of sides L_1, L_2 with a uniform magnetic field and periodic boundary conditions. There is an apparent paradox here: infinitesimal translations should be associated to canonical operators [p_x,p_y] \propto i\hslash B, and, at the same time, live in a Landau level of finite dimension B L_1L_2/(hc/e), which is impossible from Wintner's theorem. The paper shows the way out of this conundrum.

id: quant-ph/0007056
title: Coherent control of spin squeezing
authors: C. K. Law, H. T. Ng, P. T. Leung
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007056
abstract: We report an interaction that controls spin squeezing in a collection of spin 1/2 particles. We describe how spin squeezing can be generated and maintained in time. Our scheme can be applied to control the spin squeezing in a Bose condensate with two internal spin states.

id: quant-ph/0007057
title: Entangling operations and their implementation using a small amount of entanglement
authors: J. I. Cirac, W. D¨¹r, B. Kraus, M. Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 544 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007057
abstract: We study when a physical operation can produce entanglement between two systems initially disentangled. The formalism we develop allows to show that one can perform certain non-local operations with unit probability by performing local measurement on states that are weakly entangled.

id: quant-ph/0007058
title: Maximum efficiency of a linear-optical Bell-state analyzer
authors: John Calsamiglia, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 6 pages, 2 figs
journal: Appl. Phys. B 72, 67-71 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007058
abstract: In a photonic realization of qubits the implementation of quantum logic is rather difficult due the extremely weak interaction on the few photon level. On the other hand, in these systems interference is available to process the quantum states. We formalize the use of interference by the definition of a simple class of operations which include linear optical elements, auxiliary states and conditional operations. We investigate an important subclass of these tools, namely linear optical elements and auxiliary modes in the vacuum state. For this tools, we are able to extend a previous quantitative result, a no-go theorem for perfect Bell state analyzer on two qubits in polarization entanglement, by a quantitative statement. We show, that within this subclass it is not possible to discriminate unambiguously four equiprobable Bell states with a probability higher than 50 %.

id: quant-ph/0007059
title: Exact solutions for a family of discretely spiked harmonic oscillators
authors: Jan Skibinski
comments: 24 pages, latex, refers to Haskell module available at: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007059
abstract: Factorization method is developed for a family of discretely spiked harmonic oscillators. Two sets of intertwining and ladder operators are presented to algebraically generate eigenstates with energies isomorphic to those of the ordinary harmonic oscillator. Normalization conditions are examined to reject unphysical cases. Generic theory is specialized to one dimensional linear oscillator and N dimensional radial oscillators in odd dimensions N=1,3,5.., where orthogonal basis or sets of staggered orthogonal bases can be identified. Even dimensions N=2,4,6.. are rejected as ill defined since they do not lead to properly defined bases. The theory is augmented by a short Haskell program Spike, which directly implements the intertwining and ladder operators, generates the eigenfunctions, tests integrability of the solutions, verifies orthogonality conditions and tests consistency of theoretical claims.

id: quant-ph/0007060
title: Reeh-Schlieder Defeats Newton-Wigner: On alternative localization schemes in relativistic quantum field theory
authors: Hans Halvorson
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phil.Sci. 68 (2001) 111-133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007060
abstract: Many of the "counterintuitive" features of relativistic quantum field theory have their formal root in the Reeh-Schlieder theorem, which in particular entails that local operations applied to the vacuum state can produce any state of the entire field. It is of great interest, then, that I.E. Segal and, more recently, G. Fleming (in a paper entitled "Reeh-Schlieder Meets Newton-Wigner") have proposed an alternative "Newton-Wigner" localization scheme that avoids the Reeh-Schlieder theorem. In this paper, I reconstruct the Newton-Wigner localization scheme and clarify the limited extent to which it avoids the counterintuitive consequences of the Reeh-Schlieder theorem. I also argue that neither Segal nor Fleming has provided a coherent account of the physical meaning of Newton-Wigner localization.

id: quant-ph/0007061
title: All inseparable two-mode Gaussian continuous variable states are distillable
authors: Geza Giedke, Lu-Ming Duan, J. Ignacio Cirac, Peter Zoller
comments: 4 pages, revtex4; minor changes: typo in eq. (8) corrected, some formulations changed, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007061
abstract: We show that all entangled Gaussian states of two infinite dimensional systems can be distilled to maximally entangled states in finite dimensions. The distillation protocol involves local squeezing operations, local homodyne measurements with ancilla systems prepared in coherent states as well as local joint measurements of the total number operator of two copies of the state.

id: quant-ph/0007062
title: Joint measurements via quantum cloning
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Opt. B {\bf 3}, 44 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007062
abstract: We explore the possibility of achieving optimal joint measurements of noncommuting observables on a single quantum system by performing conventional measurements of commuting self adjoint operators on optimal clones of the original quantum system. We consider the case of both finite dimensional and infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. In the former we study the joint measurement of three orthogonal components of a spin 1/2, in the latter we consider the case of the joint measurements of any pair of noncommuting quadratures of one mode of the electromagnetic field. We show that universally covariant cloning is not ideal for joint measurements, and a suitable non universally covariant cloning is needed.

id: quant-ph/0007063
title: Experimental Demonstration of Optimal Unambiguous State Discrimination
authors: Roger B. M. Clarke, Anthony Chefles, Stephen M. Barnett, Erling Riis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007063
abstract: We present the first full demonstration of unambiguous state discrimination between non-orthogonal quantum states. Using a novel free space interferometer we have realised the optimum quantum measurement scheme for two non-orthogonal states of light, known as the Ivanovic-Dieks-Peres (IDP) measurement. We have for the first time gained access to all three possible outcomes of this measurement. All aspects of this generalised measurement scheme, including its superiority over a standard von Neumann measurement, have been demonstrated within 1.5% of the IDP predictions.

id: quant-ph/0007064
title: Quantum key distribution in the Holevo limit
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 5635-5638
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007064
abstract: A theorem by Shannon and the Holevo theorem impose that the efficiency of any protocol for quantum key distribution, $\cal E$, defined as the number of secret (i.e., allowing eavesdropping detection) bits per transmitted bit plus qubit, is ${\cal E} \le 1$. The problem addressed here is whether the limit ${\cal E} =1$ can be achieved. It is showed that it can be done by splitting the secret bits between several qubits and forcing Eve to have only a sequential access to the qubits, as proposed by Goldenberg and Vaidman. A protocol with ${\cal E} =1$ based on polarized photons and in which Bob's state discrimination can be implemented with linear optical elements is presented.

id: quant-ph/0007065
title: Multiparty multilevel Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 022104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007065
abstract: The proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities by Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger (GHZ) is extended to multiparticle multilevel systems. The proposed procedure generalizes previous partial results and provides an operational characterization of the so-called GHZ states for multiparticle multilevel systems.

id: quant-ph/0007066
title: Sources of quantum waves
authors: A. D. Baute, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 12 pages, 7 inlined figures; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007066
abstract: Due to the space and time dependence of the wave function in the time dependent Schroedinger equation, different boundary conditions are possible. The equation is usually solved as an ``initial value problem'', by fixing the value of the wave function in all space at a given instant. We compare this standard approach to "source boundary conditions'' that fix the wave at all times in a given region, in particular at a point in one dimension. In contrast to the well-known physical interpretation of the initial-value-problem approach, the interpretation of the source approach has remained unclear, since it introduces negative energy components, even for ``free motion'', and a time-dependent norm. This work provides physical meaning to the source method by finding the link with equivalent initial value problems.

id: quant-ph/0007067
title: Bell State Preparation using Pulsed Non-Degenerate Two-Photon Entanglement
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Sergei P. Kulik, Yanhua Shih
comments: 4 pages, submitted to PRL
journal: PRA 63, 060301(R), (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007067
abstract: We report a novel Bell state preparation experiment. High-purity Bell states are prepared by using femtosecond pulse pumped \emph{nondegenerate} collinear spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The use of femtosecond pump pulse {\em does not} result in reduction of quantum interference visibility in our scheme in which post-selection of amplitudes and other traditional mechanisms, such as, using thin nonlinear crystals or narrow-band spectral filters are not used. Another distinct feature of this scheme is that the pump, the signal, and the idler wavelengths are all distinguishable, which is very useful for quantum communications.

id: quant-ph/0007068
title: No contradictions between Bohmian and quantum mechanics
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: LaTex, 6 pages including one LaTeX figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007068
abstract: Two recent claims by A. Neumaier (quant-ph/0001011) and P. Ghose (quant-ph/0001024) that Bohmian mechanics is incompatible with quantum mechanics for correlations involving time are shown to be unfounded.

id: quant-ph/0007069
title: Triviality of GHZ operators of higher spin
authors: J. Savinien, J. Taron, R. Tarrach
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007069
abstract: We prove that local observables of the set of GHZ operators for particles of spin higher than 1/2 reduce to direct sums of the spin 1/2 operators $\sigma_x$, $\sigma_y$ and, therefore, no new contradictions with local realism arise by considering them.

id: quant-ph/0007070
title: Sophisticated quantum search without entanglement
authors: David A. Meyer
comments: 8 pages, plain TeX, 2 PostScript figures included with epsf.tex (ignore the under/overfull \vbox error messages); for related work see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007070
abstract: Although entanglement is widely considered to be necessary for quantum algorithms to improve on classical ones, Lloyd has observed recently that Grover's quantum search algorithm can be implemented without entanglement, by replacing multiple particles with a single particle having exponentially many states. We explain that this maneuver removes entanglement from any quantum algorithm. But all physical resources must be accounted for to quantify algorithm complexity, and this scheme typically incurs exponential costs in some other resource(s). In particular, we demonstrate that a recent experimental realization requires exponentially increasing precision. There is, however, a quantum algorithm which searches a `sophisticated' database (not unlike a Web search engine) with a single query, but which we show does not require entanglement even for multiparticle implementations.

id: quant-ph/0007071
title: A Numerical Study of the Performance of a Quantum Adiabatic Evolution Algorithm for Satisfiability
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, LaTeX with BoxedEPS macros; email to farhi@mit.edu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007071
abstract: Quantum computation by adiabatic evolution, as described in quant-ph/0001106, will solve satisfiability problems if the running time is long enough. In certain special cases (that are classically easy) we know that the quantum algorithm requires a running time that grows as a polynomial in the number of bits. In this paper we present numerical results on randomly generated instances of an NP-complete problem and of a problem that can be solved classically in polynomial time. We simulate a quantum computer (of up to 16 qubits) by integrating the Schrodinger equation on a conventional computer. For both problems considered, for the set of instances studied, the required running time appears to grow slowly as a function of the number of bits.

id: quant-ph/0007072
title: Quantum codes on high-genus surfaces
authors: Eric Dennis
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007072
abstract: An economy of scale is found when storing many qubits in one highly entangled block of a topological quantum code. The code is defined by construction of a topologically convoluted 2-d surface and does not work by compressing redundancy in the encoded information.

id: quant-ph/0007073
title: Relativistic J-matrix method
authors: Pawel Horodecki
comments: 21 pages, RevTeX, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007073
abstract: The relativistic version of the J-matrix method for a scattering problem on the potential vanishing faster than the Coulomb one is formulated. As in the non-relativistic case it leads to a finite algebraic eigenvalue problem. The derived expression for the tangent of phase shift is simply related to the non-relativistic case formula and gives the latter as a limit case. It is due to the fact that the used basis set satisfies the ``kinetic balance condition''.

id: quant-ph/0007074
title: Solid State Quantum Computing Using Spectral Holes
authors: M.S. Shahriar, P.R. Hemmer, S. Lloyd, J.A. Bowers, A.E. Craig
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007074
abstract: A quantum computer that stores information on two-state systems called quantum bits or qubits must be able to address and manipulate individual qubits, to effect coherent interactions between pairs of qubits, and to read out the value of qubits.1,2 Current methods for addressing qubits are divided up into spatial methods, as when a laser beam is focused on an individual qubit3,4,5 or spectral methods, as when a nuclear spin in a molecule is addressed using NMR.6,7 The density of qubits addressable spatially is limited by the wavelength of light, and the number of qubits addressable spectrally is limited by spin linewidths. Here, we propose a method for addressing qubits using a method that combines spatial and spectral selectivity. The result is a design for quantum computation that provides the potential for a density of quantum information storage and processing many orders of magnitude greater than that afforded by ion traps or NMR. Specifically, this method uses an ensemble of spectrally resolved atoms in a spectral holeburning solid. The quantum oupling is provided by strong atom-cavity interaction. Using a thin disc of diamond containing nitrogen-vacancy color centers as an example, we present an explicit model for realizing up to 300 coupled qubits in a single spot. We show how about 100 operations can take place in parallel, yielding close to 40,000 operations before decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0007075
title: Quantum mechanics without interpretation
authors: O. Yaremchuk
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007075
abstract: It is shown that the independence of the continuum hypothesis points to the unique definite status of the set of intermediate cardinality: the intermediate set exists only as a subset of continuum. This latent status is a consequence of duality of the members of the set. Due to the structural inhomogeneity of the intermediate set, its complete description falls into several "sections" (theories) with their special main laws, dimensions, and directions, i.e., the complete description of the one-dimensional intermediate set is multidimensional. Quantum mechanics is one of these theories.

id: quant-ph/0007076
title: Schroedinger-Cat Entangled State Reconstruction in the Penning Trap
authors: Michol Massini, Mauro Fortunato, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi, David Vitali
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX. Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 2, 20.1 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007076
abstract: We present a tomographic method for the reconstruction of the full entangled quantum state for the cyclotron and spin degrees of freedom of an electron in a Penning trap. Numerical simulations of the reconstruction of several significant quantum states show that the method turns out to be quite accurate.

id: quant-ph/0007077
title: On the quantum mechanical nature in liquid NMR quantum computing
authors: G L Long, H Y Yan, Y s Li, C C Tu, s J Zhu, D Ruan, Y Sun, J X Tao, H M Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 38, 306-308(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007077
abstract: The quantum nature of bulk ensemble NMR quantum computing --the center of recent heated debate, is addressed. Concepts of the mixed state and entanglement are examined, and the data in a 2 qubit liquid NMR quantum computation are analyzed. It is pointed out that the key problem in the current debate is the understanding of entanglement in a mixed state system. The following points are concluded in this Letter: 1)Density matrix describes the "state" of an average particle in an ensemble. It can not describe the state of an individual particle in an ensemble in detail; 2) Entanglement is a property of the wave function of a quantum particle(such as an molecule in a liquid NMR sample). Separability of the density matrix can not be used to measure the entanglement of mixed ensemble; 3)The evolution of states in bulk-ensemble NMR quantum computation is quantum mechanical; 4) The coefficient before the effective pure state density matrix, $\epsilon$, is an measure of the simultaneity of the molecules in an ensemble. It reflects the intensity of the NMR signal and has no significance in quantifying the entanglement in the bulk ensemble NMR system. We conclude that the liquid NMR quantum computation is genuine, not just classical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0007078
title: Gravitationally induced transition to classical behavior above 10^10 proton masses
authors: Sergio De Filippo
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007078
abstract: The localization length for the center of mass motion of a matter lump, induced by gravitation, is obtained, without using any phenomenological constants. Its dependence from mass and volume is consistent both with unitary evolution of microscopic particles and with the classical behavior of macroscopic bodies required to account for wave function collapse in quantum measurements, the transition between the two regimes being rather sharp. The gravitational interaction of nonrelativistic matter is modelled by a Yukawa Hamiltonian with vanishing pion mass, no gravitational background is needed and the only hypothesis consists in assuming unentanglement between matter and the Yukawa field.

id: quant-ph/0007079
title: Effect of classically forbidden momenta in one dimensional quantum scattering
authors: A. D. Baute, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 11 pages, 6 inlined figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007079
abstract: The transmitted wave that results from a collision of a wave packet which is initially to the left of a potential barrier depends in general on the amplitudes of negative momenta of the initial state. The exact form of this dependence is shown and the importance of this classically forbidden effect is illustrated with numerical examples. Special care is taken to account properly for bound states.

id: quant-ph/0007080
title: Three-party entanglement from positronium
authors: A. Acin, J. I. Latorre, P. Pascual
comments: REVTEX, 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A63 (2001) 042107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007080
abstract: The decay of ortho-positronium into three photons produces a physical realization of a pure state with three-party entanglement. Its quantum correlations are analyzed using recent results on quantum information theory, looking for the final state which has the maximal amount of GHZ-like correlations. This state allows for a statistical dismissal of local realism stronger than the one obtained using any entangled state of two spin one-half particles.

id: quant-ph/0007081
title: The Schmidt Measure as a Tool for Quantifying Multi-Particle Entanglement
authors: J. Eisert, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages (RevTeX), 2 tables. Title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64 (2001) 022306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007081
abstract: We present a measure of quantum entanglement which is capable of quantifying the degree of entanglement of a multi-partite quantum system. This measure, which is based on a generalization of the Schmidt rank of a pure state, is defined on the full state space and is shown to be an entanglement monotone, that is, it cannot increase under local quantum operations with classical communication and under mixing. For a large class of mixed states this measure of entanglement can be calculated exactly, and it provides a detailed classification of mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0007082
title: Entangling Atoms and Ions in Dissipative Environments
authors: A. Beige, S. Bose, D. Braun, S. F. Huelga, P. L. Knight, M. B. Plenio, V. Vedral
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in J. Mod. Opt. (Special Issue)
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47, 2583 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007082
abstract: Quantum information processing rests on our ability to manipulate quantum superpositions through coherent unitary transformations, and to establish entanglement between constituent quantum components of the processor. The quantum information processor (a linear ion trap, or a cavity confining the radiation field for example) exists in a dissipative environment. We discuss ways in which entanglement can be established within such dissipative environments. We can even make use of a strong interaction of the system with its environment to produce entanglement in a controlled way.

id: quant-ph/0007083
title: Coherent transport of matter waves
authors: C. Henkel, S. Potting
comments: 9 pages incl. 10 PostScript figures (.eps), LaTeX using Springer style file svjour, submitted to Appl. Phys. B
journal: Appl. Phys. B 72 (2001) 73-80
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007083
abstract: A transport theory for atomic matter waves in low-dimensional waveguides is outlined. The thermal fluctuation spectrum of magnetic near fields leaking out of metallic microstructures is estimated. The corresponding scattering rate for paramagnetic atoms turns out to be quite large in micrometer-sized waveguides (approx. 100/s). Analytical estimates for the heating and decoherence of a cold atom cloud are given. We finally discuss numerical and analytical results for the scattering from static potential imperfections and the ensuing spatial diffusion process.

id: quant-ph/0007084
title: Noise-free scattering of the quantized electromagnetic field from a dispersive linear dielectric
authors: Mark Hillery, Peter D. Drummond
comments: Revtex, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007084
abstract: We study the scattering of the quantized electromagnetic field from a linear, dispersive dielectric using the scattering formalism for quantum fields. The medium is modeled as a collection of harmonic oscillators with a number of distinct resonance frequencies. This model corresponds to the Sellmeir expansion, which is widely used to describe experimental data for real dispersive media. The integral equation for the interpolating field in terms of the in field is solved and the solution used to find the out field. The relation between the in and out creation and annihilation operators is found which allows one to calculate the S-matrix for this system. In this model, we find that there are absorption bands, but the input-output relations are completely unitary. No additional quantum noise terms are required.

id: quant-ph/0007085
title: EPR effect in gravitational field: nature of non-locality
authors: Horst von Borzeszkowski, Michael B. Mensky
comments: 12 pages, LATEX
journal: Phys.Lett. A269 (2000) 197-203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007085
abstract: The realization of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen effect by the correlation of spin projections of two particles created in the decay of a single scalar particle is considered for particles propagating in gravitational field. The absence of a global definition of spatial directions makes it unclear whether the correlation may exist in this case and, if yes, what directions in distant regions must be correlated. It is shown that in a gravitational field an approximate correlation may exist and the correlated directions are connected with each other by the parallel transport along the world lines of the particles. The reason for this is that the actual origin of the quantum non-locality is founded in local processes.

id: quant-ph/0007086
title: Entangled webs: Tight bound for symmetric sharing of entanglement
authors: Masato Koashi, Vladimir Buzek, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007086
abstract: Quantum entanglement cannot be unlimitedly shared among arbitrary number of qubits. Larger the number of entangled pairs in an N-qubit system, smaller the degree of bi-partite entanglement is. We analyze a system of N qubits in which an arbitrary pair of particles is entangled. We show that the maximum degree of entanglement (measured in the concurrence) between any pair of qubits is 2/N. This tight bound can be achieved when the qubits are prepared in a pure symmetric (with respect to permutations) state with just one qubit in the basis state |0> and the others in the basis state |1>.

id: quant-ph/0007087
title: Local-field effect in atom optics of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: K.V.Krutitsky, K.-P.Marzlin, J.Audretsch
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, talk at the 9th International Workshop on Laser Physics
journal: Laser Physics 11 (4), 449-454 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007087
abstract: Starting from the first principles of nonrelativistic QED we have developed the quantum theory of the interaction of a two-component ultracold atomic ensemble with the electromagnetic field of vacuum and laser photons. The main attention has been paid to the consistent consideration of dynamical dipole-dipole interactions in the radiation field. Taking into account local-field effects we have derived the system of Maxwell-Bloch equations. Optical properties of the two-component Bose gas are investigated. It is shown that the refractive index of the gas is given by the Maxwell-Garnett formula. All equations which are used up to now for the description of the behavior of an ultracold atomic ensemble in a radiation field can be obtained from our general system of equations in the low-density limit. Raman-Nath diffraction of the two-component atomic beam is investigated on the basis of our general system of equations.

id: quant-ph/0007088
title: Quantum Brain?
authors: A. Mershin, D.V. Nanopoulos, E.M.C. Skoulakis
comments: 37 pages
journal: PROC. ACAD. ATHENS, 74 A (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007088
abstract: In order to create a novel model of memory and brain function, we focus our approach on the sub-molecular (electron), molecular (tubulin) and macromolecular (microtubule) components of the neural cytoskeleton. Due to their size and geometry, these systems may be approached using the principles of quantum physics. We identify quantum-physics derived mechanisms conceivably underlying the integrated yet differentiated aspects of memory encoding/recall as well as the molecular basis of the engram. We treat the tubulin molecule as the fundamental computation unit (qubit) in a quantum-computational network that consists of microtubules (MTs), networks of MTs and ultimately entire neurons and neural networks. We derive experimentally testable predictions of our quantum brain hypothesis and perform experiments on these.

id: quant-ph/0007089
title: Continuously Measured Systems,Path Integrals and Information
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: 9 pages, LATEX
journal: Intern. J. Theor. Phys. 37 (1998) 273-280
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007089
abstract: A continuously measured quantum system may be described by restricted path integrals (RPI) or equivalently by non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. The measured system is then considered as an open system, the influence of the environment being taken into account by restricting the path integral or by inclusion of an imaginary part in the Hamiltonian. This way of description of measurements naturally follows from the Feynman form of quantum mechanics without any additional postulates and may be interpreted as an information approach to continuous quantum measurements. This reveals deep features of quantum physics concerning relations between quantum world and its classical appearance.

id: quant-ph/0007090
title: The quantum bit commitment theorem
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: LaTeX, 25 pages. Forthcoming in Foundations of Physics, May 2001
journal: Found. Phys. 31 (2001) 735
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007090
abstract: Unconditionally secure two-party bit commitment based solely on the principles of quantum mechanics (without exploiting special relativistic signalling constraints, or principles of general relativity or thermodynamics) has been shown to be impossible, but the claim is repeatedly challenged. The quantum bit commitment theorem is reviewed here and the central conceptual point, that an `Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen' attack or cheating strategy can always be applied, is clarified. The question of whether following such a cheating strategy can ever be disadvantageous to the cheater is considered and answered in the negative. There is, indeed, no loophole in the theorem.

id: quant-ph/0007091
title: Position Measurement for a Relativistic Particle: Restricted-Path-Integral Analysis
authors: Michael B. Mensky, Horst von Borzeszkowski
comments: 12 pages, LATEX
journal: Phys.Lett. A208 (1995) 269-275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007091
abstract: Measurements of the position of a relativistic particle is considered in the framework of the Restricted-Path-Integral (RPI) approach. The amplitude describing such a measurement is shown to be exponentially small outside the light cone of the space-time point corresponding to the measurement output, in a qualitative agreement with the Hellwig and Kraus' postulate of relativistic state reduction. Theory of the measurement including the probability distribution for different measurement outputs is suggested. It is shown that correct theory does not exist (for arbitrary initial states) if the error of the measurement is less than the Compton length. The physical reason is that the picture of measurement is destroyed in this case by pair creation.

id: quant-ph/0007092
title: Measurability of Electromagnetic Field: Model and Path Integral Methods
authors: Horst von Borzeszkowski, Michael B. Mensky
comments: 13 pages, LATEX
journal: Phys.Lett. A188 (1994) 249-255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007092
abstract: The problem of the measurability of the electromagnetic field is investigated 1) in the framework of the abstract restricted-path-integral method, and 2) by explicitly accounting the action of the field onto the meter and its back reaction. The meaning of the previously obtained results as well as of the classical results of Bohr and Rosenfeld are made clear. The restricted-path-integral method with integration over field configurations is shown to give an estimation on the measurability of the field by any device not disturbing the measured field (in the process of measurement) more than by the measurement error. Such method of measurement is necessary for the control of the field in electronic devices.

id: quant-ph/0007093
title: Quantum mechanical histories and the Berry phase
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 12 pages, latex. The new version is substantially revised and enlarged with more detailed discussion and explanations: in some sense it is a new paper
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 41, 529 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007093
abstract: We elaborate on the distinction between geometric and dynamical phase in quantum theory and show that the former is intrinsically linked to the quantum mechanical probabilistic structure. In particular, we examine the appearance of the Berry phase in the consistent histories scheme and establish that it is the basic building block of the decoherence functional. These results are consequences of the novel temporal structure of histories-based theories.

id: quant-ph/0007094
title: The Kapitza - Dirac effect
authors: H. Batelaan
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007094
abstract: The Kapitza - Dirac effect is the diffraction of a well - collimated particle beam by a standing wave of light. Why is this interesting? Comparing this situation to the introductory physics textbook example of diffraction of a laser beam by a grating, the particle beam plays the role of the incoming wave and the standing light wave the role of the material grating, highlighting particle - wave duality. Apart from representing such a beautiful example of particle - wave duality, the diffracted particle beams are coherent. This allows the construction of matter interferometers and explains why the Kapitza - Dirac effect is one of the workhorses in the field of atom optics. Atom optics concerns the manipulation of atomic waves in ways analogous to the manipulation of light waves with optical elements. The excitement and activity in this new field of physics stems for a part from the realisation that the shorter de Broglie wavelengths of matter waves allow ultimate sensitivities for diffractive and interferometric experiments that in principle would far exceed their optical analogues. Not only is the Kapitza - Dirac effect an important enabling tool for this field of physics, but diffraction peaks have never been observed for electrons, for which is was originally proposed in 1933. Why has this not been observed? What is the relation between the interaction of laser light with electrons and the interaction of laser light with atoms, or in other words what is the relation between the ponderomotive potential and the lightshift potential? Would it be possible to build interferometers using the Kapitza - Dirac effect for other particles? These questions will be addressed in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0007095
title: Note on reversibility of quantum jumps
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: 6 pages, LATEX
journal: Physics Letters A 222 (1996) 137-140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007095
abstract: It has been recently proved that a quantum jump may be reversed by a unitary process provided the initial state is restricted by some conditions. The application of such processes for preventing decoherence, for example in quantum computers, was suggested. We shall show that in the situation when the quantum jump is reversible it supplies no information about the initial state additional to the information known beforehand. Therefore the reversibility of this type does not contradict the general statement of quantum measurement theory: a measurement cannot be reversed. As a consequence of this, the coherence of a state (say, in a quantum computer) cannot be restored after it is destroyed by dissipative processes having a character of measurement.

id: quant-ph/0007096
title: Finite resolution of time in continuous measurements: phenomenology and the model
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: 12 pages, LATEX
journal: Physics Letters A 231 (1997) 1-8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007096
abstract: Definition of a quantum corridor describing monitoring a quantum observable in the framework of the phenomenological restricted-path-integral (RPI) approach is generalized for the case of a finite resolution of time. The resulting evolution of the continuously measured system cannot be presented by a differential equation. Monitoring of the position of a quantum particle is also considered with the help of a model which takes into account a finite resolution of time. The results based on the model are shown to coincide with those of the phenomenological approach.

id: quant-ph/0007097
title: Large-Angle, Single-Order, One and Two-Dimensional Atomic Interferometry for Creation of Nanostructures
authors: M.S. Shahriar, T. Zelevinsky, P.R. Hemmer
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007097
abstract: We have shown via explicit analysis as well as numerical simulation the design of two large angle interferometers employing two-photon pulses. The first one uses the technique of adiabatic following in a dark state to produce a large splitting angle atomic interferometer that is capable of producing one dimensional gratings with spacings as small as 2 nm. Unlike other large angle interferometers, this technique is not sensitive to errors in optical pulse area and decoherence from excited state decay. This may lead to a nearly two orders of magnitude improvement in the sensitivity of devices such as atomic gyroscopes, which are already as good as the best laser gyroscopes. The second interferometer uses the technique of Raman pulses to produce a two-dimensional interferometer, with independent choice of grating spacings in each direction, each being as small as 2 nm. This scheme may enable one to produce uniform arrays of quantum dots with dimensions of only a few nm on each side. In addition, it may be possible to generalize this process to produce arbitrary patterns with the same type of resolution.

id: quant-ph/0007098
title: Local Distinguishability of Multipartite Orthogonal Quantum States
authors: Jonathan Walgate, Anthony J. Short, Lucien Hardy, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4972 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007098
abstract: We consider one copy of a quantum system prepared in one of two orthogonal pure states, entangled or otherwise, and distributed between any number of parties. We demonstrate that it is possible to identify which of these two states the system is in by means of local operations and classical communication alone. The protocol we outline is both completely reliable and completely general - it will correctly distinguish any two orthogonal states 100% of the time.

id: quant-ph/0007099
title: Unpolarized light in quantum optics
authors: Jonas Soderholm, Gunnar Bjork, Alexei Trifonov
comments: 3 pages, REVTeX, presented at ICQO'2000
journal: Opt. Spectrosc. 91 (2001) 532-534
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007099
abstract: We present a new derivation of the unpolarized quantum states of light, whose general form was first derived by Prakash and Chandra [Phys. Rev. A 4, 796 (1971)]. Our derivation makes use of some basic group theory, is straightforward, and offers some new insights.

id: quant-ph/0007100
title: Evolutionarily Stable Strategies in Quantum Games
authors: A.Iqbal, A.H.Toor
comments: RevTex,contents extended to include asymmetric games,no figure
journal: Physics Letters, A 280/5-6 (2001), pp 249-256
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007100
abstract: Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) in classical game theory is a refinement of Nash equilibrium concept. We investigate the consequences when a small group of mutants using quantum strategies try to invade a classical ESS in a population engaged in symmetric bimatrix game of Prisoner's Dilemma. Secondly we show that in an asymmetric quantum game between two players an ESS pair can be made to appear or disappear by resorting to entangled or unentangled initial states used to play the game even when the strategy pair remains a Nash equilibrium in both forms of the game.

id: quant-ph/0007101
title: "Quantum mysteries for anyone," or classical verities for everyone?
authors: A. F. Kracklauer, N. A. Kracklauer
comments: 10 pages LaTeX v2: Noted additional flaw in Bell's Theorem + wordsmithing v 3: Moderate revamp with argument tuning; v4 edit + new EPR model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007101
abstract: Unarticulated, implicit hypotheses in Bell's analysis of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) correlations are identified and examined. These relate to the mathematical-analytical properties of random variables, the character of the relevant sample spaces and physical interpretations. We shown that continuous hidden variables are not precluded by Bell inequalities. Finally, we propose a local realistic model of optical EPRB experiments and consider its implications.

id: quant-ph/0007102
title: A local hidden variable theory for the GHZ experiment
authors: Laszlo E. Szabo, Arthur Fine
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, 7 eps figures, computer demo: this http URL, an improper figure is replaced
journal: Physics Letters A295 (2002) pp. 229-240
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007102
abstract: A recent analysis by de Barros and Suppes of experimentally realizable GHZ correlations supports the conclusion that these correlations cannot be explained by introducing local hidden variables. We show, nevertheless, that their analysis does not exclude local hidden variable models in which the inefficiency in the experiment is an effect not only of random errors in the detector equipment, but is also the manifestation of a pre-set, hidden property of the particles ("prism models"). Indeed, we present an explicit prism model for the GHZ scenario; that is, a local hidden variable model entirely compatible with recent GHZ experiments.

id: quant-ph/0007103
title: Scattering of relativistic particles with Aharonov-Bohm-Coulomb interaction in two dimensions
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: revtex, 11 pages, no figure
journal: J.Phys.A33:5049-5057,2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007103
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm-Coulomb potentials in two dimensions may describe the interaction between two particles carrying electric charge and magnetic flux, say, Chern--Simons solitons, or so called anyons. The scattering problem for such two-body systems is extended to the relativistic case, and the scattering amplitude is obtained as a partial wave series. The electric charge and magnetic flux is ($-q$, $-\phi/Z$) for one particle and ($Zq$, $\phi$) for the other. When $(Zq^2/\hbar c)^2\ll 1$, and $q\phi/2\pi\hbar c$ takes on integer or half integer values, the partial wave series is summed up approximately to give a closed form. The results exhibit some nonperturbative features and cannot be obtained from perturbative quantum electrodynamics at the tree level.

id: quant-ph/0007104
title: Possible consequences of introduction of the discrete carrier of material fields
authors: S. G. Lebedev
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007104
abstract: In this work some probable consequences of introduction of discrete medium - carrier for fields of a substance are considered. The given medium is thinked as a set of harmonic oscillators filling all space. Discrete medium is introduced on an image and similarity of a crystalline lattice of a condensed matter. The particles - excitation are concentrated in space of a "reciprocal lattice " of discrete medium. This leads to the violation of the energy and momentum conservation laws at the wave number of particles higher then the wave number of the reciprocal lattice. Some possible confirmation of the given consideration may be the behavior of cosmic rays at high energy. The other possible consequences of the proposed approach in physics of elementary particles, cosmology, and quantum mechanics are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0007105
title: Property Attribution and the Projection Postulate in Relativistic Quantum Theory
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 11 papes LaTeX with 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 278, 19 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007105
abstract: State-vectors resulting from collapse along the forward light cone from a measurement interaction can be used for the attribution of both local and non-local properties.

id: quant-ph/0007106
title: Quantum Teleportation and Bell's Inequality Using Single-Particle Entanglement
authors: Hai-Woong Lee, Jaewan Kim
comments: 7 pages including 3 figures in eps-format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007106
abstract: A single-particle entangled state can be generated by illuminating a beam splitter with a single photon. Quantum teleportation utilizing such a single-particle entangled state can be successfully achieved with a simple setup consisting only of linear optical devices such as beam splitters and phase shifters. Application of the locality assumption to a single-particle entangled state leads to Bell's inequality, a violation of which signifies the nonlocal nature of a single particle.

id: quant-ph/0007107
title: Photon echo signature of vibrational cat states created by femtosecond excitation of molecules
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Takao Fuji, Takayoshi Kobayashi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, modified introduction and discussion
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 4 (2002) 99-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007107
abstract: A pair of coherent femtosecond pulse excitations applied to a molecule with strong electron-phonon coupling creates a coherent superposition of a low momentum and a high momentum wavepacket in the vibrational states of both the excited state and the ground state of the coherent transition. As the excited state is accelerated further, interference between the high momentum ground state contribution and the low momentum excited state contribution causes a photon echo. This photon echo is a direct consequence of quantum interference between separate vibrational trajectories and can therefore provide experimental evidence of the non-classical properties of molecular vibrations.

id: quant-ph/0007108
title: Exactly solvable models of quantum mechanics including fluctuations in the framework of representation of the wave function by random process
authors: A.S.Gevorkyan, A.A.Udalov
comments: 29 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007108
abstract: The problem of quantum harmonic oscillator with "regular+random" square frequency, subjected to "regular+random external force, is considered in framework of representation of the wave function by complex-valued random process. Average transition probabilities are calculated. Stochastic density matrix method is developed, which is used for investigation of thermodinamical characteristics of the system, such as entropy and average energy.

id: quant-ph/0007109
title: Photon localization and vacuum noise in optical measurements
authors: Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007109
abstract: Description of detection and emission in terms of the photon localization is discussed. It is shown that the standard representation of plane waves of photons should be revised to take into consideration the boundary conditions caused by the presence of quantum emitters and detectors. In turn, the change of the boundary conditions causes spatially inhomogeneous structure of the electromagnetic vacuum which leads to the increase of the vacuum noise over the level predicted in the frame of the model of plane photons.

id: quant-ph/0007110
title: Quantum Holonomies for Quantum Computing
authors: Jiannis Pachos, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, REVTEX
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. B15 (2001) 1257-1286
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007110
abstract: Holonomic Quantum Computation (HQC) is an all-geometrical approach to quantum information processing. In the HQC strategy information is encoded in degenerate eigen-spaces of a parametric family of Hamiltonians. The computational network of unitary quantum gates is realized by driving adiabatically the Hamiltonian parameters along loops in a control manifold. By properly designing such loops the non-trivial curvature of the underlying bundle geometry gives rise to unitary transformations i.e., holonomies that implement the desired unitary transformations. Conditions necessary for universal QC are stated in terms of the curvature associated to the non-abelian gauge potential (connection) over the control manifold. In view of their geometrical nature the holonomic gates are robust against several kind of perturbations and imperfections. This fact along with the adiabatic fashion in which gates are performed makes in principle HQC an appealing way towards universal fault-tolerant QC.

id: quant-ph/0007111
title: Nonlinear quantum evolution with maximal entropy production
authors: S. Gheorghiu-Svirschevski
comments: RevTex-Latex2e, 21 pg., no figures; to be published in Phys.Rev.A. Corrected minor typos, updated version of variational principle (no results change), added more comments (e.g. clarified relation to Prigogine's minimum entropy production principle, detailed possible resolution of the separability problem, etc.) and added new section outlining generalization for non-standard forms of the energy and/or entropy functionals
journal: Phys.Rev. A63 (2001) 022105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007111
abstract: We derive a well-behaved nonlinear extension of the non-relativistic Liouville-von Neumann dynamics driven by maximal entropy production with conservation of energy and probability. The pure state limit reduces to the usual Schroedinger evolution, while mixtures evolve towards maximum entropy equilibrium states with canonical-like probability distributions on energy eigenstates. The linear, near-equilibrium limit is found to amount to an essentially exponential relaxation to thermal equilibrium; a few elementary examples are given. In addition, the modified dynamics is invariant under the time-independent symmetry group of the hamiltonian, and also invariant under the special Galilei group provided the conservation of total momentum is accounted for as well. Similar extensions can be generated for, e.g., nonextensive systems better described by a Tsallis q-entropy.

id: quant-ph/0007112
title: Generalization of the Peres criterion for local realism through nonextensive entropy
authors: Constantino Tsallis, Seth Lloyd, Michel Baranger
comments: Figures 1a, 1b, 2 and 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007112
abstract: A bipartite spin-1/2 system having the probabilities $\frac{1+3x}{4}$ of being in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled state $|\Psi^-$$> \equiv \frac{1}{\sqrt 2}(|$$\uparrow>_A|$$\downarrow>_B$$-|$$\downarrow>_A|$$\uparrow>_B)$ and $\frac{3(1-x)}{4}$ of being orthogonal, is known to admit a local realistic description if and only if $x<1/3$ (Peres criterion). We consider here a more general case where the probabilities of being in the entangled states $|\Phi^{\pm}$$> \equiv \frac{1}{\sqrt 2}(|$$\uparrow>_A|$$\uparrow>_B \pm |$$\downarrow>_A|$$\downarrow>_B)$ and $|\Psi^{\pm}$$> \equiv \frac{1}{\sqrt 2}(|$$\uparrow>_A|$$\downarrow>_B \pm |$$\downarrow>_A|$$\uparrow>_B)$ (Bell basis) are given respectively by $\frac{1-x}{4}$, $\frac{1-y}{4}$, $\frac{1-z}{4}$ and $\frac{1+x+y+z}{4}$. Following Abe and Rajagopal, we use the nonextensive entropic form $S_q \equiv \frac{1- Tr \rho^q}{q-1} (q \in \cal{R}; $$S_1$$= -$ $Tr$ $ \rho \ln \rho)$ which has enabled a current generalization of Boltzmann-Gibbs statistical mechanics, and determine the entire region in the $(x,y,z)$ space where local realism is admissible. For instance, in the vicinity of the EPR state, classical realism is possible if and only if $x+y+z<1$, which recovers Peres' criterion when $x=y=z$. In the vicinity of the other three states of the Bell basis, the situation is identical. A critical-phenomenon-like scenario emerges. These results illustrate the computational power of this new nonextensive-quantum-information procedure.

id: quant-ph/0007113
title: Quantum Computing Using Electrons Floating on Liquid Helium
authors: M. I. Dykman, P. M. Platzman
comments: To appear in the special issue of Fortschritte der Physik on quantum computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007113
abstract: The system of electrons trapped in vacuum above the liquid helium surface displays the highest mobilities known in condensed matter physics. We provide a brief summary of the experimental and theoretical results obtained for this system. We then show that a quasi-2D set of N > 10^8 electrons in vacuum trapped in 1D hydrogenic levels above a micron-thick helium film can be used as an easily manipulated strongly interacting set of quantum bits. Individual electrons are laterally confined by micron sized metal pads below the helium. Information is stored in the lowest hydrogenic levels. Using electric fields at temperatures of 10 mK, changes in the wave function can be made in nanoseconds. Wave function coherence times are .1 millisecond. The wave function is read out using an inverted dc voltage which releases excited electrons from the surface, or using SETs attached to the metal pads which control the electrons.

id: quant-ph/0007114
title: Raman Excited Spin Coherences in N-V Diamond
authors: P.R. Hemmer, A.V. Turukhin, M.S. Shahriar, J.A. Musser
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007114
abstract: Raman excited spin coherences were experimentally observed in N-V diamond color centers via nondegenerate four-wave mixing (NDFWM) and electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The maximal absorption suppression was found to be 17%, which corresponds to 70% of what is possible given the random geometric orientation of the N-V center in diamond. In the context of quantum computing in solids, this level of transparency represents the efficient preparation of quantum bits (qubits), as well as ability to perform arbitrary single qubit rotations.

id: quant-ph/0007115
title: Numerical Experiments on The Capacity of Quantum Channel with Entangled Input States
authors: Susumu Osawa, Hiroshi Nagaoka
comments: Latex, 13 pages, partly presented at the second QIT and the 22nd SITA. Final version to appear in IEICE Trans. Fundamentals
journal: IEICE Trans. Fundamentals, vol.E84-A, no.10, pp.2583-2590, Oct. 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007115
abstract: The capacity of quantum channel with product input states was formulated by the quantum coding theorem. However, whether entangled input states can enhance the quantum channel is still open. It turns out that this problem is reduced to aspecial case of the more general problem whether the capacity of product quantum channel exhibits additivity. In the present study, we apply one of the quantum Arimoto-Blahut type algorithms to the latter problem. The results suggest that the additivity of product quantum channel capacity always holds and that entangled input states cannot enhance the quantum channel capacity.

id: quant-ph/0007116
title: Comment on "Conceptual Inadequacy of Shannon Information ..." by C. Brukner and A. Zeilinger
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: Latex, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007116
abstract: It is pointed out that the case for Shannon entropy and von Neumann entropy, as measures of uncertainty in quantum mechanics, is not as bleak as suggested in quant-ph/0006087. The main argument of the latter is based on one particular interpretation of Shannon's H-function (related to consecutive measurements), and is shown explicitly to fail for other physical interpretations. Further, it is shown that Shannon and von Neumann entropies have in fact a common fundamental significance, connected to the existence of a unique geometric measure of uncertainty for classical and quantum ensembles. Some new properties of the ``total information'' measure proposed in quant-ph/0006087 are also given.

id: quant-ph/0007117
title: Interference of macroscopic superpositions
authors: Italo Vecchi
comments: Latex, 9 pages, 1 figure, 2 files. Some comments have been added pointing out the relevance of arguments by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007117
abstract: We propose a simple experimental procedure based on the Elitzur-Vaidman scheme to test the persistence of macroscopic superpositions. We conjecture that its implementation will reveal the persistence of superpositions of macroscopic objects in the absence of a direct act of observation.

id: quant-ph/0007118
title: Relativistic Aharonov-Casher Phase in Spin One
authors: James A Swansson, Bruce H J McKellar
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007118
abstract: The Aharonov-Casher (AC) phase is calculated in relativistic wave equations of spin one. The AC phase has previously been calculated from the Dirac-Pauli equation using a gauge-like technique \cite{MK1,MK2}. In the spin-one case, we use Kemmer theory (a Dirac-like particle theory) to calculate the phase in a similar manner. However the vector formalism, the Proca theory, is more widely known and used. In the presence of an electromagnetic field, the two theories are `equivalent' and may be transformed into one another. We adapt these transformations to show that the Kemmer theory results apply to the Proca theory. Then we calculate the Aharonov-Casher phase for spin-one particles directly in the Proca formalism.

id: quant-ph/0007119
title: A realistic interpretation of the density matrix II: The non-relativistic case
authors: A. Raiteri
comments: LaTeX, 33 pages, 2 figures; uses graphicx
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007119
abstract: The interpretation proposed in quant-ph/9812011 is extended to the general case of a non-relativistic particle moving in an arbitrary external potential. It is shown that, even in this general case, "particle" solutions exist which do not spread out with time, and remain well localized around their center of mass; it is postulated that these are the only solutions which represent individual physical particles. As a consequence two basic principles of standard QM, namely the superposition principle and the wave-function collapse, are shown to have no ontological meaning. Three simple applications of our approach are then examined: the free particle, the linear harmonic oscillator and the delta barrier potential; the corresponding "particle" solutions are explicitly shown. Finally, it is argued that the persisting confusion about the meaning of the wave-function (does it represent an individual particle or a statistical ensemble?) calls for a non-linear extension of the Schroedinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0007120
title: Quantum strategies of quantum measurement
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 Pages, minor changes
journal: Phys. Lett. A 280, 257 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007120
abstract: In classical Monty Hall problem, one player can always win with probability 2/3. We generalize the problem to the quantum domain and show that a fair two-party zero-sum game can be carried out if the other player is permitted to adopt quantum measurement strategy.

id: quant-ph/0007121
title: Quantum no-deleting principle and some of its implications
authors: Arun K. Pati, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: Latex 4 pages, no-figures (Based on this a talk was presented in Benasque Science Center held from July 2-21, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007121
abstract: Unmeasureability of a quantum state has important consequences in practical implementation of quantum computers. Like copying, deleting of an unknown state from among several copies is prohibited. This is called no-deletion prinicple. Here, we present a no deleting principle for qudits. We obtain a bound on $N$-to-$M$ deleting and show that the quality of deletion drops exponentially with the number of copies to be deleted. In addition, we investigate conditional, state-dependent and approximate quantum deleting of unknown states. We prove that unitarity does not allow us to delete copies from an alphabet of two non-orthogonal states exactly. Further, we show that no-deleting principle is consistent with no-signalling.

id: quant-ph/0007122
title: The Universality of the Quantum Fourier Transform in Forming the Basis of Quantum Computing Algorithms
authors: Charles M. Bowden, Goong Chen, Zijian Diao, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, submitted to SIAM Journal on Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007122
abstract: The quantum Fourier transform (QFT) is a powerful tool in quantum computing. The main ingredients of QFT are formed by the Walsh-Hadamard transform H and phase shifts P(.), both of which are 2x2 unitary matrices as operators on the two-dimensional 1-qubit space. In this paper, we show that H and P(.) suffice to generate the unitary group U(2) and, consequently, through controlled-U operations and their concatenations, the entire unitary group U(2^n) on n-qubits can be generated. Since any quantum computing algorithm in an n-qubit quantum computer is based on operations by matrices in U(2^n), in this sense we have the universality of the QFT.

id: quant-ph/0007123
title: Generalization of Grover's Algorithm to Multiobject Search in Quantum Computing, Part I: Continuous Time and Discrete Time
authors: Goong Chen, Stephen A. Fulling, Jeesen Chen
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007123
abstract: L. K. Grover's search algorithm in quantum computing gives an optimal, quadratic speedup in the search for a single object in a large unsorted database. In this paper, we generalize Grover's algorithm in a Hilbert-space framework for both continuous and discrete time cases that isolates its geometrical essence to the case where more than one object satisfies the search criterion.

id: quant-ph/0007124
title: Generalization of Grover's Algorithm to Multiobject Search in Quantum Computing, Part II: General Unitary Transformations
authors: Goong Chen, Shunhua Sun
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0007124
abstract: There are major advantages in a newer version of Grover's quantum algorithm utilizing a general unitary transformation in the search of a single object in a large unsorted database. In this paper, we generalize this algorithm to multiobject search. We show the techniques to achieve the reduction of the problem to one on an invariant subspace of dimension just equal to two.

id: astro-ph/0007053
title: Influence of the Magnetic Field on the Fermion Scattering off Bubble and Kink Walls
authors: P. Cea, G.L. Fogli, L. Tedesco
comments: 11 pages and 3 eps figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A15:1755-1766,2000
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0007053
abstract: We investigate the scattering of fermions off domain walls at the electroweak phase transition in presence of a magnetic field. We consider both the bubble wall and the kink domain wall. We derive and solve the Dirac equation for fermions with momentum perpendicular to the walls, and compute the transmission and reflection coefficients. In the case of kink domain wall, we briefly discuss the zero mode solutions localized on the wall. The possibile role of the magnetic field for the electroweak baryogenesis is also discussed.

id: cond-mat/0007005
title: A Study of Quantum Many-Body Systems With Nearest And Next-to-Nearest Neighbour Long-Range Interactions
authors: Meripeni Ezung, N. Gurappa, Avinash Khare, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0007005
abstract: The scattering and bound states of the many-body systems, related to the short-range Dyson model, are studied. First, we show that the scattering states can be realized as coherent states and the scattering Hamiltonian can be connected to a free system. Unlike the closely related Calogero-Moser model, only a part of the partial waves acquire energy independent phase shifts, after scattering. The cause of the same is traced to the reduction in the degeneracies. The bound state Hamiltonian for the full-line problem is also studied and the relationship of its Hilbert space with that of the decoupled oscillators elucidated. Finally, we analyze the related models on circle and construct a part of the excitation spectrum through symmetry arguments.

id: cond-mat/0007047
title: Geometric Phases and Multiple Degeneracies in Harmonic Resonators
authors: F. Pistolesi, Nicola Manini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.85:1585-1589,2000
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0007047
abstract: In a recent experiment Lauber et al. have deformed cyclically a microwave resonator and have measured the adiabatic normal-mode wavefunctions for each shape along the path of deformation. The nontrivial observed cyclic phases around a 3-fold degeneracy were accounted for by Manolopoulos and Child within an approximate theory. However, open-path geometrical phases disagree with experiment. By solving exactly the problem, we find unsuspected extra degeneracies around the multiple one that account for the measured phase changes throughout the path. It turns out that proliferation of additional degeneracies around a multiple one is a common feature of quantum mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0007360
title: A Quantum Fluctuation Theorem
authors: Jorge Kurchan
comments: Reference to shot noise in devices added, proof simplified
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0007360
abstract: We consider a quantum system strongly driven by forces that are periodic in time. The theorem concerns the probability $P(e)$ of observing a given energy change $e$ after a number of cycles. If the system is thermostated by a (quantum) thermal bath, $e$ is the total amount of energy transferred to the bath, while for an isolated system $e$ is the increase in energy of the system itself. Then, we show that $P(e)/P(-e)=e^{\beta e}$, a parameter-free, model-independent relation.

id: gr-qc/0007006
title: Emergent Consciousness: From the Early Universe to Our Mind
authors: P. A. Zizzi
comments: 17 pages
journal: NeuroQuantology,Vol.3(2003)295-311
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0007006
abstract: In a previous paper (gr-qc/9907063) we described the early inflationary universe in terms of quantum information. In this paper, we analize those results in more detail, and we stress the fact that, during inflation, the universe can be described as a superposed state of quantum registers. The self-reduction of the superposed quantum state is consistent with the Penrose's Objective Reduction (OR) model. The quantum gravity threshold is reached at the end of inflation, and corresponds to a superposed state of 10^9 quantum registers. This is also the number of superposed tubulins-qubits in our brain, which undergo the Penrose-Hameroff's Orchestrated Objective Reduction, (Orch OR), leading to a conscious event. Then, an analogy naturally arises between the very early quantum computing universe,and our mind.

id: gr-qc/0007013
title: Black-hole radiation, the fundamental area unit, and the spectrum of particle species
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. D61 (2000) 124016
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0007013
abstract: Bekenstein and Mukhanov have put forward the idea that, in a quantum theory of gravity a black hole should have a discrete mass spectrum with a concomitant {\it discrete} line emission. We note that a direct consequence of this intriguing prediction is that, compared with blackbody radiation, black-hole radiance is {\it less} entropic. We calculate the ratio of entropy emission rate from a quantum black hole to the rate of black-hole entropy decrease, a quantity which, according to the generalized second law (GSL) of thermodynamics, should be larger than unity. Implications of our results for the GSL, for the value of the fundamental area unit in quantum gravity, and for the spectrum of massless particles in nature are discussed.

id: gr-qc/0007063
title: Decoherence Caused by Topology in a Time-Machine Spacetime
authors: Michael B.Mensky, Igor D.Novikov
comments: 37 pages, LATEX
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D5:1-27,1996
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0007063
abstract: Non-relativistic quantum theory of non-interacting particles in the spacetime containing a region with closed time-like curves (time-machine spacetime) is considered with the help of the path-integral technique. It is argued that, in certain conditions, a sort of superselection may exist for evolution of a particle in such a spacetime. All types of evolution are classified by the number $n$ defined as the number of times the particle returns back to its past. It corresponds also to the topological class of trajectories of the particle. The evolutions corresponding to different values of $n$ are non-coherent. The amplitudes corresponding to such evolutions may not be superposed. Instead of one evolution operator, as in the conventional (coherent) description, evolution of the particle is described by a family $U_n$ of partial evolution operators. This is done in analogy with the formalism of quantum theory of measurements, but with essential new features in the dischronal region (the region with closed time-like curves) of the time-machine spacetime. Partial evolution operators $U_n$ are equal to integrals over the topological classes of paths if the evolution begins and ends in the chronal regions. If the evolution begins or/and ends in the dischronal region, the integral over the topological class should be multiplied by a certain projector to give the partial evolution operator $U_n$. Thus defined partial evolution operators possess the property of generalized unitarity and multiplicativity. The part of evolution containing repeated returning backward in time cannot be factorized: all backward passages of the particle have to be considered as a single act, that cannot be presented as gradually, step by step, passing through `causal loops'.

id: hep-ph/0007010
title: Anomalous magnetic moment of muon in 3-3-1 models
authors: Nguyen Anh Ky, Hoang Ngoc Long, Dang Van Soa
comments: Latex, 11 pages, 4 figures, axodraw.sty used. To appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B486:140-146,2000
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0007010
abstract: A contribution from new gauge bosons in the ${SU}(3)_C\otimes {SU}(3)_L \otimes {U}(1)_N$ (3 - 3 - 1) models to the anomalous magnetic moments of the muon is calculated and numerically estimated. In the minimal 3 - 3 - 1 model, a lower bound on the bilepton mass at a value of 167 GeV is derived. For an expected precision($\sim 4\times 10^{-10}$) of the BNL measurements the possible lower bounds on masses of the bileptons in the minimal version and in the version with right-handed neutrinos are around 940 GeV and 250 GeV, respectively.

id: hep-th/0007006
title: Consequences of 't Hooft's Equivalence Class Theory and Symmetry by Large Coarse Graining
authors: X.F.Liu, C.P.Sun
comments: 12 papge, Latex
journal: J.Math.Phys. 42 (2001) 3665-3672
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007006
abstract: According to 't Hooft (Class.Quantum.Grav. 16 (1999), 3263), quantum gravity can be postulated as a dissipative deterministic system, where quantum states at the ``atomic scale''can be understood as equivalence classes of primordial states governed by a dissipative deterministic dynamics law at the ``Planck scale''. In this paper, it is shown that for a quantum system to have an underlying deterministic dissipative dynamics, the time variable should be discrete if the continuity of its temporal evolution is required. Besides, the underlying deterministic theory also imposes restrictions on the energy spectrum of the quantum system. It is also found that quantum symmetry at the ``atomic scale'' can be induced from 't Hooft's Coarse Graining classification of primordial states at the "Planck scale".

id: hep-th/0007008
title: Quantum Mechanical Symmetries and Topological Invariants
authors: K. Aghababaei Samani, A. Mostafazadeh
comments: Revised version, to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B595 (2001) 467-492
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007008
abstract: We give the definition and explore the algebraic structure of a class of quantum symmetries, called topological symmetries, which are generalizations of supersymmetry in the sense that they involve topological invariants similar to the Witten index. A topological symmetry (TS) is specified by an integer n>1, which determines its grading properties, and an n-tuple of positive integers (m_1,m_2,...,m_n). We identify the algebras of supersymmetry, p=2 parasupersymmetry, and fractional supersymmetry of order n with those of the Z_2-graded TS of type (1,1), Z_2-graded TS of type (2,1), and Z_n-graded TS of type (1,1,...,1), respectively. We also comment on the mathematical interpretation of the topological invariants associated with the Z_n-graded TS of type (1,1,...,1). For n=2, the invariant is the Witten index which can be identified with the analytic index of a Fredholm operator. For n>2, there are n independent integer-valued invariants. These can be related to differences of the dimension of the kernels of various products of n operators satisfying certain conditions.

id: hep-th/0007054
title: Theories of violation of statistics
authors: O.W. Greenberg
comments: 16 pages, talk given at the International Conference on the Spin-Statistics Connection and Commutation Relations: Experimental Tests and Theoretical Implications, Capri, Italy, May 31-June 4, 2000. Dedication added. Minor misprints corrected
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.545:113-127,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007054
abstract: I discuss theories of violations of statistics, including intermediate statistics, parastatistics, parons, and quons. I emphasize quons, which allow small violations of statistics. I analyze the quon algebra and its representations, implications of the algebra including the observables allowed by the superselection rule separating inequivalent representations of the symmetric group, the conservation of statistics rules, and the rule for composite systems of quons. I conclude by raising the question of possible origins of violations of statistics and of the level at which violations should be expected if they exist.

id: hep-th/0007092
title: Quantum gauge symmetry from finite field dependent BRST transformations
authors: Rabin Banerjee, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 8 pages, Latex, No figs
journal: Phys.Lett. B488 (2000) 27-30
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007092
abstract: Using the technique of finite field dependent BRST transformations we show that the classical massive Yang-Mills theory and the pure Yang-Mills theory whose gauge symmetry is broken by a gauge fixing term are identical from the view point of quantum gauge symmetry. The explicit infinitesimal transformations which leave the massive Yang-Mills theory BRST invariant are given.

id: hep-th/0007123
title: Fractal Statistics and Quantum Black Hole Entropy
authors: Wellington da Cruz
comments: latex, 6 pages, remark added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007123
abstract: Simple considerations about the fractal characteristic of the quantum-mechanical path give us the opportunity to derive the quantum black hole entropy in connection with the concept of fractal statistics. We show the geometrical origin of the numerical factor of four of the quantum black hole entropy expression and the statistics weight appears as a counting of the quanta of geometry.

id: hep-th/0007127
title: On the Equivalence of Noncommutative Models in Various Dimensions and Brane Condensation
authors: Corneliu Sochichiu
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figure, changes in the Title, Abstract, notations clarified, some comments and refs added
journal: JHEP 0008 (2000) 048
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007127
abstract: Here we construct a map from the algebra of fields in two-dimensional noncommutative of U(1) Yang-Mills fields interacting with Kaluza-Klein scalars to a D-dimensional one, as a solution in the two-dimensional model. This proves the equivalence of noncommutative models in various (even) dimensions. Physically this map describes condensation of D1-branes.

id: hep-th/0007132
title: Supercriticality and Transmission Resonances in the Dirac equation
authors: N Dombey, P Kennedy, A Calogeracos
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 85 (2000) 1787-1790
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007132
abstract: It is shown that a Dirac particle of mass $m$ and arbitrarily small momentum will tunnel without reflection through a potential barrier $V=U_c(x)$ of finite range provided that the potential well $V=-U_c(x)$ supports a bound state of energy $E=-m.$ This is called a supercritical potential well.

id: hep-th/0007138
title: Dissipation and quantization
authors: Massimo Blasone, Petr Jizba, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, 1 figure. Revised version with minor changes
journal: Phys.Lett.A287:205-210,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007138
abstract: We show that the dissipation term in the Hamiltonian for a couple of classical damped-amplified oscillators manifests itself as a geometric phase and is actually responsible for the appearance of the zero point energy in the quantum spectrum of the 1D linear harmonic oscillator. We also discuss the thermodynamical features of the system. Our work has been inspired by 't Hooft proposal according to which information loss in certain classical systems may lead to ``an apparent quantization of the orbits which resembles the quantum structure seen in the real world".

id: hep-th/0007193
title: Quantum mechanics with non-unitary symmetries
authors: Bojan Bistrovic
comments: 47 pages; shortened and clarified, some explanations added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007193
abstract: This article shows that one can consistently incorporate nonunitary representations of at least one group into the ``ordinary'' nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. This group turns out to be Lorentz group thus giving us an alternative approach to QFT for combining the quantum mechanics and special theory of relativity which keeps the concept of wave function (belonging to some representation of Lorentz group) through the whole theory. Scalar product has been redefined to take into the account the nonunitarity of representations of Lorentz group. Understanding parity symmetry turns out to be the key ingredient throughout the process. Instead of trying to guess an equation or a set of equations for some wave functions or fields (or equivalently trying to guess a Lagrangian for the same), one derives them based only on the superposition principle and properties of wave functions under Lorentz transformations and parity. The resulting model has striking similarities with the standard quantum field theory and yet has no negative energy states, no zitterbewegung effects, symmetric energy momentum tensor and angular momentum density tensor for \emph{all} representations of Lorentz group (unifying the theoretical description of all particles), as well as clear physical interpretation. It also offers a possible interpretation why particles and antiparticles have opposite quantum numbers.

id: hep-th/0007208
title: Super-Calogero-Moser-Sutherland systems and free super-oscillators : a mapping
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 27 pages, RevTeX, No figures; Minor clarifications added, version to appear in Nuclear Physics B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B595 (2001) 519-535
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007208
abstract: We show that the supersymmetric rational Calogero-Moser-Sutherland (CMS) model of A_{N+1}-type is equivalent to a set of free super-oscillators, through a similarity transformation. We prescribe methods to construct the complete eigen-spectrum and the associated eigen-functions, both in supersymmetry preserving as well as supersymmetry breaking phases, from the free super-oscillator basis. Further we show that a wide class of super-Hamiltonians realizing dynamical OSp(2|2) supersymmetry, which also includes all types of rational super-CMS as a small subset, are equivalent to free super-oscillators. We study BC_{N+1}-type super-CMS model in some detail to understand the subtleties involved in this method.

id: hep-th/0007242
title: Casimir effect for scalar fields under Robin boundary conditions on plates
authors: A. Romeo, A. A. Saharian
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures, consideration of the contribution from complex eigenmodes added, possibility for the stabilization of the distance between the plates is discussed; accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A35:1297-1320,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0007242
abstract: We study the Casimir effect for scalar fields with general curvature coupling subject to mixed boundary conditions $(1+\beta_{m}n^{\mu}\partial_{\mu})\phi =0$ at $x=a_{m}$ on one ($m=1$) and two ($m=1,2$) parallel plates at a distance $a\equiv a_{2}-a_{1}$ from each other. Making use of the generalized Abel-Plana formula previously established by one of the authors \cite{Sahrev}, the Casimir energy densities are obtained as functions of $\beta_{1}$ and of $\beta_{1}$,$\beta_{2}$,$a$, respectively. In the case of two parallel plates, a decomposition of the total Casimir energy into volumic and superficial contributions is provided. The possibility of finding a vanishing energy for particular parameter choices is shown, and the existence of a minimum to the surface part is also observed. We show that there is a region in the space of parameters defining the boundary conditions in which the Casimir forces are repulsive for small distances and attractive for large distances. This yields to an interesting possibility for stabilizing the distance between the plates by using the vacuum forces.

id: math-ph/0007016
title: Spectrum generating algebra of the C_¦Ë-extended oscillator and multiphoton coherent states
authors: C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX2e, amssym,19 pages, to be published in Phys. Lett. A (+ figures), misprint corrected in eq. (41)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 272 (2000) 313-325 + erratum Phys. Lett. A 275 (2000)313
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0007016
abstract: The $C_{\lambda}$-extended oscillator spectrum generating algebra is shown to be a $C_{\lambda}$-extended $(\lambda-1)$th-degree polynomial deformation of su(1,1). Its coherent states are constructed. Their statistical and squeezing properties are studied in detail. Such states include both some Barut-Girardello and the standard $\lambda$-photon coherent states as special cases.

id: math-ph/0007030
title: Quantum and Classic Brackets
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX2e, 16 pages; added subsection with an example
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. v.41(2002), no.1, pp.63-77
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0007030
abstract: We describe an $p$-mechanical (see funct-an/9405002 and quant-ph/9610016) brackets which generate quantum (commutator) and classic (Poisson) brackets in corresponding representations of the Heisenberg group. We \emph{do not} use any kind of semiclassic approximation or limiting procedures for $\hbar \to 0$. Harmonic oscillator considered within the approach. Keywords: Classic and quantum mechanics, Hamilton and Heisenberg equations, Poisson brackets, commutator, Heisenberg group.

id: math/0007049
title: Commutativity up to a factor of bounded operators in complex Hilbert space
authors: J.A. Brooke, P. Busch, D.B. Pearson
comments: 9 pages. Material reorganised, new examples added to highlight relations between main results. Submitted to Proc. Roy. Soc. A
journal: Proc. Roy. Soc. A (London) 458 (2002) 109-118.
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0007049
abstract: We explore commutativity up to a factor, $AB=\lambda BA$, for bounded operators in a complex Hilbert space. Conditions on the possible values of the factor $\lambda$ are formulated and shown to depend on spectral properties of the operators involved. Commutativity up to a unitary factor is considered for pairs of self-adjoint operators. Examples of nontrivial realizations of such commutation relations are given.

id: nucl-th/0007045
title: On the origin of order from random two-body interactions
authors: S. Drozdz, M.Wojcik
comments: Latex2e-RevTeX, 4 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0007045
abstract: We investigate the origin of order in the low-lying spectra of many-body systems with random two-body interactions. Contrary to the common belief our study based both on analytical as well as on numerical arguments shows that these are the higher $J$-sectors whose ground states are more orderly than the ones in the J=0-sector. A predominance of J=0 ground states turns out to be the result of putting on together states with different characteristic energy scales from different $J$-sectors.

id: nucl-th/0007064
title: Universal trend of the information entropy of a fermion in a mean field
authors: C.P. Panos, S. E. Massen, C. G. Koutroulos
comments: 9 pages, latex, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. C63 (2001) 064307
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0007064
abstract: We calculate the information entropy of single-particle states in position-space $S_{r}$ and momentum-space $S_{k}$ for a nucleon in a nucleus, a $\Lambda$ particle in a hypernucleus and an electron in an atomic cluster. It is seen that $S_{r}$ and $S_{k}$ obey the same approximate functional form as functions of the number of particles, $S_{r}$ ({\rm or} $S_{k}) = a+bN^{1/3}$ in all of the above many-body systems in position- and momentum- space separately. The net information content $S_{r}+S_{k}$ is a slowly varying function of $N$ of the same form as above. The entropy sum $S_{r}+S_{k}$ is invariant to uniform scaling of coordinates and a characteristic of the single-particle states of a specific system. The order of single-particle states according to $S_r +S_k$ is the same as their classification according to energy keeping the quantum number $n$ constant. The spin-orbit splitting is reproduced correctly. It is also seen that $S_{r}+S_{k}$ enhances with excitation of a fermion in a quantum-mechanical system. Finally, we establish a relationship of $S_r +S_k$ with the energy of the corresponding single-particle state i.e. $S_r +S_k = k \ln (\mu E +\nu)$. This relation holds for all the systems under consideration.

id: physics/0007051
title: Quasi-continuous atom laser in the presence of gravity
authors: F. Gerbier, P. Bouyer, A. Aspect
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4729 (2001)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0007051
abstract: We analyse the extraction of a coherent atomic beam from a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate using a rf transition to a non-trapping state at T=0 K. Our quantum treatment fully takes gravity into account but neglects all interactions in the free falling beam. We obtain an analytical expression of the output rate and of the wave function of the extracted beam, i.e. the output mode of the ``atom laser''. Our model reproduces satisfactorily experimental data without any adjustable parameter.

id: physics/0007054
title: Condensates beyond mean field theory: quantum backreaction as decoherence
authors: Amichay Vardi, James R. Anglin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 568 (2001)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0007054
abstract: We propose an experiment to measure the slow log(N) convergence to mean-field theory (MFT) around a dynamical instability. Using a density matrix formalism, we derive equations of motion which go beyond MFT and provide accurate predictions for the quantum break-time. The leading quantum corrections appear as decoherence of the reduced single-particle quantum state.

