id: quant-ph/0008001
title: Manipulation of Cold Atomic Collisions by Cavity QED Effects
authors: J. I. Kim, R. B. B. Santos, P. Nussenzveig.
comments: RevTex, 2 EPS figures; scheduled for Phys. Rev. Lett. 19 Feb 01, with minor changes
journal: Physical Review Letters, v. 86, n.8, p. 1474-1477, 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008001
abstract: We show how the dynamics of collisions between cold atoms can be manipulated by a modification of spontaneous emission times. This is achieved by placing the atomic sample in a resonant optical cavity. Spontaneous emission is enhanced by a combination of multiparticle entanglement together with a higher density of modes of the modified vacuum field, in a situation akin to superradiance. A specific situation is considered and we show that this effect can be experimentally observed as a large suppression in trap-loss rates.

id: quant-ph/0008002
title: A unified approach for exactly solvable potentials in quantum mechanics using shift operators
authors: Mo-Lin Ge, L.C. Kwek, Yong Liu, C.H. Oh, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: RevTex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008002
abstract: We present a unified approach for solving and classifying exactly solvable potentials. Our unified approach encompasses many well-known exactly solvable potentials. Moreover, the new approach can be used to search systematically for a new class of solvable potentials.

id: quant-ph/0008003
title: Feedback-stabilization of an arbitrary pure state of a two-level atom
authors: Jin Wang, H.M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008003
abstract: Unit-efficiency homodyne detection of the resonance fluorescence of a two-level atom collapses the quantum state of the atom to a stochastically moving point on the Bloch sphere. Recently,Hofmann, Mahler, and Hess [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 57}, 4877 (1998)] showed that by making part of the coherent driving proportional to the homodyne photocurrent can stabilize the state to any point on the bottom half of the sphere. Here we reanalyze their proposal using the technique of stochastic master equations, allowing their results to be generalized in two ways. First, we show that any point on the upper or lower half, but not the equator, of the sphere may be stabilized. Second, we consider non-unit-efficiency detection, and quantify the effectiveness of the feedback by calculating the maximal purity obtainable in any particular direction in Bloch space.

id: quant-ph/0008004
title: Full mechanical characterization of a cold damped mirror
authors: M. Pinard, P.F. Cohadon, T. Briant, A. Heidmann
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2000) 013808
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008004
abstract: We describe an experiment in which we have used a cold damping feedback mechanism to reduce the thermal noise of a mirror around its mechanical resonance frequency. The monitoring of the brownian motion of the mirror allows to apply an additional viscous force without any thermal fluctuations associated. This scheme has been experimentally implemented with the radiation pressure of an intensity-modulated laser beam. Large noise reductions, up to 30 dB, have been obtained. We have also checked the mechanical response of the cold damped mirror, and monitored its transient evolution between the cooled regime and the room temperature equilibrium. A simple theoretical model allows to fully explain the experimental results. A possible application to the active cooling of the violin modes in a gravitational-wave interferometer is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0008005
title: The Classical Limit of Quantum Mechanics and the Fejer Sum of the Fourier Series Expansion of a Classical Quantity
authors: Q.H.Liu
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A, 32(1999)L57-L62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008005
abstract: In quantum mechanics, the expectation value of a quantity on a quantum state, provided that the state itself gives in the classical limit a motion of a particle in a definite path, in classical limit goes over to Fourier series form of the classical quantity. In contrast to this widely accepted point of view, a rigorous calculation shows that the expectation value on such a state in classical limit exactly gives the Fej\'{e}r's arithmetic mean of the partial sums of the Fourier series.

id: quant-ph/0008006
title: Distillation of vacuum entanglement to EPR pairs
authors: Benni Reznik
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008006
abstract: It is shown that by means of local interactions between a quantized relativistic field and a pair of non-entangled atoms, entanglement can be extracted from the vacuum and delivered to the atoms. The resulting mixed state of the atoms can be further distilled to EPR pairs. Therefore, in principle, teleportation and other entanglement assisted quantum communication tasks can rely on the vacuum alone as a resource for entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0008007
title: Reply to `No Contradictions between Bohmian and quantum mechanics'
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 1 page, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008007
abstract: Marchildon's claim (quant-ph/0007068) regarding Ghose's papers (quant-ph/0001024 and 0003037) is shown to be erroneous.

id: quant-ph/0008008
title: A simple proof of the unconditional security of relativistic quantum cryptography
authors: S.N.Molotkov, S.S.Nazin
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure (typos in Eqs. 2, 7 and 8 are corrected)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008008
abstract: A simple proof of the unconditional security of a relativistic quantum cryptosystem based on orthogonal states is proposed. Restrictions imposed by special relativity allow to substantially simplify the proof compared with the non-relativistic cryptosystems involving non-orthogonal states. Important for the proposed protocol is the spatio-temporal structure of the quantum states which is actually ignored in the non-relativistic protocols employing only the structure of the state space of the information carriers. As a consequence, the simplification arises because of the inefficiency of collective measurements which constitute the major problem in the non-relativistic case.

id: quant-ph/0008009
title: Template-stripped gold surfaces with 0.4 nm rms roughness suitable for force measurements. Application to the Casimir force in the 20-100 nm range
authors: Thomas Ederth
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 62104 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008009
abstract: Using a template-stripping method, macroscopic gold surfaces with root-mean-square (rms) roughness less than 0.4 nm have been prepared, making them useful for studies of surface interactions in the nanometer range. The utility of such substrates is demonstrated by measurements of the Casimir force at surface separations between 20 and 100 nm, resulting in good agreement with theory. The significance and quantification of this agreement is addressed, as well as some methodological aspects regarding the measurement of the Casimir force with high accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0008010
title: Frequency tuning of the whispering gallery modes of silica microspheres for CQED and spectroscopy
authors: Wolf von Klitzing, Romain Long, Vladimir S. Ilchenko, Jean Hare, Valerie Lefevre-Seguin
comments: ReVTeX, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008010
abstract: We have tuned the whispering gallery modes of a fused silica microresonator over nearly 1 nm at 800 nm, i.e. over 0.5 FSR or 10^6 linewidths of the resonator. This has been achieved by a new method based on the stretching of a two-stem microsphere. The devices described below will permit new Cavity-QED experiments with this high-Q optical resonator when it is desirable to optimize its coupling to emitters with given transition frequencies. The tuning capability demonstrated here is compatible with both UHV and low temperature operation, which should be useful for future experiments with laser cooled atoms or single quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0008011
title: Universal Manipulation of a Single Qubit
authors: Lucien Hardy, David D. Song
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 032304 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008011
abstract: We find the optimal universal way of manipulating a single qubit, |psi(theta,phi)>, such that (theta,phi)->(theta-k,phi-l). Such optimal transformations fall into two classes. For 0 =< k =< pi/2 the optimal map is the identity and the fidelity varies monotonically from 1 (for k=0) to 1/2 (for k=pi/2). For pi/2 =< k =< pi the optimal map is the universal-NOT gate and the fidelity varies monotonically from 1/2 (for k=pi/2) to 2/3 (for k=pi). The fidelity 2/3 is equal to the fidelity of measurement. It is therefore rather surprising that for some values of k the fidelity is lower than 2/3.

id: quant-ph/0008012
title: Quantum Interference Mechanism of Cooperative Optical Phenomena in Extended Media
authors: Valery I. Rupasov
comments: RevTex, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008012
abstract: In the quantum process of stimulated Raman scattering (SRS), a laser photon propagating in a resonance medium undergoes multifold conversions into a Stokes photon and back. The nontrivial ``cooperative'' behavior of the Stokes component of light transmitted through the medium is proven to be completely determined by the interference of scattering amplitudes in different sub-channels of the Stokes channel, which obviously combines all the sub-channels with an odd number of photon conversions. The theory of superfluorescence is then derived as the limiting case of the SRS theory.

id: quant-ph/0008013
title: A Note on Quantum Key Channel Efficiency and Security using Correlated Photon Beam Transmitters
authors: PJ Edwards, W N Cheung, H van Pham, G Ganesharajah, P Lynam, L Barbopoulos
comments: 3 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008013
abstract: Quantum-correlated photon sources provide a means of suppressing multiple photon emission and thus improving the security and efficiency of quasi single-photon quantum key distribution systems. We present illustrative photon-counting statistics for a Poissonian source conditioned by photon number measurements on a fully correlated twin beam with a non-ideal photon counter. We show that high photon counting efficiency is needed to obtain significant improvement in channel efficiency (bits per symbol) and/or security (in the form of reduced Shannon entropy leakage) over a single beam source.

id: quant-ph/0008014
title: Early times in tunneling
authors: Gaston Garcia-Calderon, Jorge Villavicencio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008014
abstract: Exact analytical solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation with the initial condition of an incident cutoff wave are used to investigate the traversal time for tunneling. The probability density starts from a vanishing value along the tunneling and transmitted regions of the potential. At the barrier width it exhibits, at early times, a distribution of traversal times that typically has a peak $\tau_p$ and a width $\Delta \tau$. Numerical results for other tunneling times, as the phase-delay time, fall within $\Delta \tau$. The B\"uttiker traversal time is the closest to $\tau_p$. Our results resemble calculations based on Feynman paths if its noisy behaviour is ignored.

id: quant-ph/0008015
title: On the Problem of Programming Quantum Computers
authors: Hans De Raedt, Anthony Hams, Kristel Michielsen, Seiji Miyashita, Keiji Saito
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures; major revision, 3 figures removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008015
abstract: We study effects of the physical realization of quantum computers on their logical operation. Through simulation of physical models of quantum computer hardware, we analyse the difficulties that are encountered in programming physical implementations of quantum computers. We discuss the origin of the instabilities of quantum algorithms and explore physical mechanisms to enlarge the region(s) of stable operation.

id: quant-ph/0008016
title: Monge Metric on the Sphere and Geometry of Quantum States
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Wojciech Slomczynski
comments: 31 latex pages, including 9 figures in ps; ver. 4: minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A34, 6689-6722 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008016
abstract: Topological and geometrical properties of the set of mixed quantum states in the N-dimensional Hilbert space are analysed. Assuming that the corresponding classical dynamics takes place on the sphere we use the vector SU(2) coherent states and the generalised Husimi distributions to define the Monge distance between arbitrary two density matrices. The Monge metric has a simple semiclassical interpretation and induces a non-trivial geometry. Among all pure states the distance from the maximally mixed state \rho_*, proportional to the identity matrix, admits the largest value for the coherent states, while the delocalized 'chaotic' states are close to \rho_*. This contrasts the geometries induced by the standard (trace, Hilbert-Schmidt or Bures) metrics, where the distance from \rho_* is the same for all pure states. We discuss possible physical consequences including unitary time evolution and the process of decoherence. We introduce also a simplified Monge metric, defined in the space of pure quantum states, and more suitable for numerical computation.

id: quant-ph/0008017
title: A logical description for perfect measurements
authors: Bob Coecke, Sonja Smets
comments: 6 pages. The published version suffered seriously in the editing process (\otimes and \oplus, and {\cal P} and P, and references got mixed up in a slightly random way); corrected proofs seem to have dissapeared at the editorial office
journal: International Journal of theoretical Physics 39 (3) 595-604, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008017
abstract: We reconsider the description for property transitions due to perfect measurements, viewing them as a special case of general transitions that are due to an externally imposed change. We propose a corresponding syntax involving operational quantum logic and a fragment of non-commutative linear logic.

id: quant-ph/0008018
title: Speed-up and entanglement in quantum searching
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Arun K. Pati
comments: Latex file, no figures, 11 pages, Extended version, To appear in Journal QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008018
abstract: We investigate the issue of speed-up and the necessity of entanglement in Grover's quantum search algorithm. We find that in a pure state implementation of Grover's algorithm entanglement is present even though the initial and target states are product states. In pseudo-pure state implementations, the separability of the states involved defines an entanglement boundary in terms of a bound on the purity parameter. Using this bound we investigate the necessity of entanglement in quantum searching for these pseudo-pure state implementations. If every active molecule involved in the ensemble is `charged for' then in existing machines speed-up without entanglement is not possible.

id: quant-ph/0008019
title: Operational quantum logic: An overview
authors: Bob Coecke, David Moore, Alexander Wilce
comments: 32 pages; Rewritten version of the introductory chapter to the volume 'Current Research in Operational Quantum Logic: Algebras, Categories, Languages', Fundamental Theories of Physics 111, Kluwer Academic Publishers (2000); updated 1-5-2001
journal: In: Current Research in Operational Quantum Logic: Algebras, Categories, Languages' (Eds. B. Coecke, D.J. Moore and A. Wilce) pp.1-36, Fundamental Theories of Physics 111, Kluwer Academic Publishers (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008019
abstract: The term quantum logic has different connotations for different people, having been considered as everything from a metaphysical attack on classical reasoning to an exercise in abstract algebra. Our aim here is to give a uniform presentation of what we call operational quantum logic, highlighting both its concrete physical origins and its purely mathematical structure. To orient readers new to this subject, we shall recount some of the historical development of quantum logic, attempting to show how the physical and mathematical sides of the subject have influenced and enriched one another.

id: quant-ph/0008020
title: Operational resolutions and state transitions in a categorical setting
authors: Bob Coecke, Isar Stubbe
comments: 21 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters {\bf 12}, 29-49, 1999
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008020
abstract: We define a category with as objects operational resolutions and with as morphisms - not necessarily deterministic - state transitions. We study connections with closure spaces and join-complete lattices and sketch physical applications related to evolution and compoundness. An appendix with preliminaries on quantaloids is included.

id: quant-ph/0008021
title: Operational Galois adjunctions
authors: Bob Coecke, David Moore
comments: 24 pages - survey with proofs; Chapter of the volume: 'Current Research in Operational Quantum Logic: Algebras, Categories, Languages', Fundamental Theories of Physics 111, Kluwer Academic Publishers (2000); edited by Bob Coecke, David Moore and Alex Wilce pp. 195-218
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008021
abstract: We present a detailed synthetic overview of the utilisation of categorical techniques in the study of order structures together with their applications in operational quantum theory. First, after reviewing the notion of residuation and its implementation at the level of quantaloids we consider some standard universal constructions and the extension of adjunctions to weak morphisms. Second, we present the categorical formulation of closure operators and introduce a hierarchy of contextual enrichments of the quantaloid of complete join lattices. Third, we briefly survey physical state-property duality and the categorical analysis of derived notions such as causal assignment and the propagation of properties.

id: quant-ph/0008022
title: Generalized quantum XOR-gate for quantum teleportation and state purification in arbitrary dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Gernot Alber, Aldo Delgado, Nicolas Gisin, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008022
abstract: A generalization of the quantum XOR-gate is presented which operates in arbitrary dimensional Hilbert spaces. Together with one-particle Fourier transforms this gate is capable of performing a variety of tasks which are important for quantum information processing in arbitrary dimensional Hilbert spaces. Among these tasks are the preparation of Bell states, quantum teleportation and quantum state purification. A physical realization of this generalized XOR-gate is proposed which is based on non-linear optical elements.

id: quant-ph/0008023
title: Inversionless gain in a three-level system driven by a strong field and collisions
authors: A.K.Popov, S.A.Myslivets, Gao Jin-yue, Zhang Han-zhuang, B.Wellegehausen
comments: RevTeX, 9 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: CHINESE PHYSICS, Vol. 9, Number 2, pp. 124-130, February, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008023
abstract: Inversionless gain in a three-level system driven by a strong external field and by collisions with a buffer gas is investigated. The mechanism of populating of the upper laser level contributed by the collision transfer as well as by relaxation caused by a buffer gas is discussed in detail. Explicit formulae for analysis of optimal conditions are derived. The mechanism developed here for the incoherent pump could be generalized to other systems.

id: quant-ph/0008024
title: On quantum coding for ensembles of mixed states
authors: Howard Barnum, Carlton M. Caves, Christopher A. Fuchs, Richard Jozsa, Benjamin W. Schumacher
comments: 23 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008024
abstract: We consider the problem of optimal asymptotically faithful compression for ensembles of mixed quantum states. Although the optimal rate is unknown, we prove upper and lower bounds and describe a series of illustrative examples of compression of mixed states. We also discuss a classical analogue of the problem.

id: quant-ph/0008025
title: Time of arrival in Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Juan Leon
comments: LaTeX article, 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008025
abstract: The time of arrival at an arbitrary position in configuration space can be given as a function of the phase space variables for the Liouville integrable systems of classical mechanics, but only for them. We review the Jacobi-Lie transformation that explicitly implements this function of positions and momenta. We then discuss the recently developed quantum formalism for the time of arrival. We first analyze the case of free particles in one and three space dimensions. Then, we apply the quantum version of the Jacobi-Lie transformation to work out the time of arrival operator in the presence of interactions. We discuss the formalism and its interpretation. We finish by disclosing the presence (absence) of "instantaneous" tunneling for thin (thick) barriers.

id: quant-ph/0008026
title: A sequence of unsharp measurements enabling a real time visualization of a quantum oscillation
authors: Juergen Audretsch, Thomas Konrad, Artur Scherer
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A. Some typographical corrections are made and a short treatmeant of the fidelity of our measurements (N-series) is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008026
abstract: The normalized state $\ket{\psi(t)}=c_1(t)\ket{1}+c_2(t)\ket{2}$ of a single two-level system performs oscillations under the influence of a resonant driving field. It is assumed that only one realization of this process is available. We show that it is possible to approximately visualize in real time the evolution of the system as far as it is given by $|c_2(t)|^2$. For this purpose we use a sequence of particular unsharp measurements separated in time. They are specified within the theory of generalized measurements in which observables are represented by positive operator valued measures (POVM). A realization of the unsharp measurements may be obtained by coupling the two-level system to a meter and performing the usual projection measurements on the meter only.

id: quant-ph/0008027
title: Error correction for mutually interacting qubits
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: RevTeX; 16 pages, 3 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008027
abstract: For a simple model of mutually interacting qubits it is shown how the errors induced by mutual interactions can be eliminated using concatenated coding. The model is solved exactly for arbitrary interaction strength, for two well-known codes, one and two levels deep: this allows one to see under which circumstances error amplitudes add coherently or incoherently. For deeper concatenation, approximate results are derived which make it possible to calculate an approximate ``threshold'' value for the product of interaction strength and free evolution time, below which the failure probability for an encoded qubit decreases exponentially with the depth of the encoding. The results suggest that concatenated coding could fully handle the errors arising from mutual interactions, at no extra cost, in terms of resources needed, from what would be required to deal with random environmental errors.

id: quant-ph/0008028
title: Experimental realization of optimal detection strategies for overcomplete states
authors: Roger B. M. Clarke, Vivien M. Kendon, Anthony Chefles, Stephen M. Barnett, Erling Riis, Masahide Sasaki
comments: RevTeX4, 14 pages, 10 figures (included as eps), submitted to Phys. Rev. A. Typos corrected, Sec II B rewritten, no changes to results or conclusions
journal: Phys. Rev. A (64) 012303, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008028
abstract: We present the results of generalized measurements of optical polarization designed to provide one of three or four distinct outcomes. This has allowed us to discriminate between nonorthogonal polarization states with an error probability that is close to the minimum allowed by quantum theory. Employing these optimal detection strategies on sets of three (trine) or four (tetrad) equiprobable symmetric nonorthogonal polarization states, we obtain a mutual information that exceeds the maximum value attainable using conventional (von Neumann) polarization measurements.

id: quant-ph/0008029
title: Coherent control using adaptive learning algorithms
authors: B. J. Pearson, J. L. White, T. C. Weinacht, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 19 pages (including 14 figures), REVTeX 3.1, updated content
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 63 (2001) 063412
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008029
abstract: We have constructed an automated learning apparatus to control quantum systems. By directing intense shaped ultrafast laser pulses into a variety of samples and using a measurement of the system as a feedback signal, we are able to reshape the laser pulses to direct the system into a desired state. The feedback signal is the input to an adaptive learning algorithm. This algorithm programs a computer-controlled, acousto-optic modulator pulse shaper. The learning algorithm generates new shaped laser pulses based on the success of previous pulses in achieving a predetermined goal.

id: quant-ph/0008030
title: Are Rindler Quanta Real? Inequivalent particle concepts in quantum field theory
authors: Rob Clifton, Hans Halvorson
comments: 62 pages, LaTeX
journal: Brit.J.Phil.Sci. 52 (2001) 417-470
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008030
abstract: Philosophical reflection on quantum field theory has tended to focus on how it revises our conception of what a particle is. However, there has been relatively little discussion of the threat to the "reality" of particles posed by the possibility of inequivalent quantizations of a classical field theory, i.e., inequivalent representations of the algebra of observables of the field in terms of operators on a Hilbert space. The threat is that each representation embodies its own distinctive conception of what a particle is, and how a "particle" will respond to a suitably operated detector. Our main goal is to clarify the subtle relationship between inequivalent representations of a field theory and their associated particle concepts. We also have a particular interest in the Minkowski versus Rindler quantizations of a free Boson field, because they respectively entail two radically different descriptions of the particle content of the field in the very same region of spacetime. We shall defend the idea that these representations provide complementary descriptions of the same state of the field against the claim that they embody completely incommensurable theories of the field.

id: quant-ph/0008031
title: Algebraic measures of entanglement
authors: Jean-Luc Brylinski
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008031
abstract: We study the rank of a general tensor $u$ in a tensor product $H_1\ot...\ot H_k$. The rank of $u$ is the minimal number $p$ of pure states $v_1,...,v_p$ such that $u$ is a linear combination of the $v_j$'s. This rank is an algebraic measure of the degree of entanglement of $u$. Motivated by quantum computation, we completely describe the rank of an arbitrary tensor in $(\C^2)^{\ot 3}$ and give normal forms for tensor states up to local unitary transformations. We also obtain partial results for $(\C^2)^{\ot 4}$; in particular, we show that the maximal rank of a tensor in $(\C^2)^{\ot 4}$ is equal to 4.

id: quant-ph/0008032
title: Quantum copying can increase the practically available information
authors: P. Deuar, W. J. Munro
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, accepted PRA
journal: Phys. Rev A 61, 042304 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008032
abstract: While it is known that copying a quantum system does not increase the amount of information obtainable about the originals, it may increase the amount available in practice, when one is restricted to imperfect measurements. We present a detection scheme which using imperfect detectors, and possibly noisy quantum copying machines (that entangle the copies), allows one to extract more information from an incoming signal, than with the imperfect detectors alone. The case of single-photon detection with noisy, inefficient detectors and copiers (single controlled-NOT gates in this case) is investigated in detail. The improvement in distinguishability between a photon and vacuum is found to occur for a wide range of parameters, and to be quite robust to random noise. The properties that a quantum copying device must have to be useful in this scheme are investigated.

id: quant-ph/0008033
title: Addition on a Quantum Computer
authors: Thomas G. Draper
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008033
abstract: A new method for computing sums on a quantum computer is introduced. This technique uses the quantum Fourier transform and reduces the number of qubits necessary for addition by removing the need for temporary carry bits. This approach also allows the addition of a classical number to a quantum superposition without encoding the classical number in the quantum register. This method also allows for massive parallelization in its execution.

id: quant-ph/0008034
title: Resonance Offset Tailored Pulses for NMR Quantum Computation
authors: H. K. Cummins, J. A. Jones
comments: 4 pages, 3 (multipart) figures. Submitted to the Journal of Magnetic Resonance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008034
abstract: We describe novel composite pulse sequences which act as general rotors and thus are suitable for nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computation. The Resonance Offset Tailoring To Enhance Nutations (ROTTEN) approach permits perfect compensation of off-resonance errors at two selected frequencies placed symmetrically around the frequency of the RF source.

id: quant-ph/0008035
title: Coherence-controlled transparency and far-from-degenerate parametric gain in a strongly-absorbing Doppler-broadened medium
authors: Thomas F. George, A. K. Popov
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps figures, to be published in Optics Letters, vol.25, No 18 (2000), minor style changes and reference correction
journal: Optics Letters v. 25 (2000) 1364-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008035
abstract: An inversionless gain of anti-Stokes radiation above the oscillation threshold in an optically-dense far-from-degenerate double-Lambda Doppler-broadened medium accompanied by Stokes gain is predicted. The outcomes are illustrated with numerical simulations applied to sodium dimer vapor. Optical switching from absorption to gain via transparency controlled by a small variation of the medium and of the driving radiation parameters which are at a level less than one photon per molecule is shown. Related video/audio clips see in: A.K. Popov, S.A. Myslivets, and T.F. George, Optics Express Vol. 7, No 3, 148 (2000)(this http URL) or download: this http URL

id: quant-ph/0008036
title: The Backwards-Time Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics - Revisited With Experiment
authors: Paul J. Werbos, Ludmila Dolmatova
comments: 59p, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008036
abstract: The classic paper of Clauser et al proved that Bell's Theorem experiments rule out all theories of physics which assume locality, time-forwards causality and the existence of an objective real world. The Backwards-Time Interpretation (BTI) tries to recover realism and locality by permitting backwards time causality. BTI should permit dramatic simplification of the assumptions or axioms of physics, but requires new work in fundamental mathematics, such as new tools for the "closure of turbulence," the derivation of statistics generated by ODE or PDE. Recent events like the Delayed Choice Quantum Eraser experiment of Kim, Shih et al have increased mainstream interest in the possibility of backwards causality. The Backwards Time Quantum Teleportation (BTQT) experiment will take this further. True backwards time communication channels (BTCC) are absolutely impossible in most formulations of quantum theory but only almost impossible in the BTI formulation. This paper discusses BTQT, the issue of backwards causality in different versions of quantum theory and new mathematical developments. It defines a new object, the "entropy matrix," which leads to closure of turbulence for PDE systems. Predictions of a common toy field theory (real phi-3 QFT) are reproduced by the corresponding PDE model combined with a new model of the micro/macro interface (2M/M).

id: quant-ph/0008037
title: Quantum cryptography using balanced homodyne detection
authors: T. Hirano, T. Konishi, R. Namiki
comments: Errors in the sentence citing ref.[20] are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042331 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008037
abstract: We report an experimental quantum key distribution that utilizes balanced homodyne detection, instead of photon counting, to detect weak pulses of coherent light. Although our scheme inherently has a finite error rate, it allows high-efficiency detection and quantum state measurement of the transmitted light using only conventional devices at room temperature. When the average photon number was 0.1, an error rate of 0.08 and "effective" quantum efficiency of 0.76 were obtained.

id: quant-ph/0008038
title: Transfer of quantum states using finite resources
authors: Dietmar G. Fischer, Holger Mack, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 9 pages RevTeX including 5 figures, replaced with revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008038
abstract: We discuss the problem of transfering a qubit from Alice to Bob using a noisy quantum channel and only finite resources. As the basic protocol for the transfer we apply quantum teleportation. It turns out that for a certain quality of the channel direct teleportation combined with qubit purification is superior to entanglement purification of the channel. If, however, the quality of the channel is rather low one should simply apply an estimation-preparation scheme.

id: quant-ph/0008039
title: Long distance entanglement based quantum key distribution
authors: Gregoire Ribordy, Juergen Brendel, Jean-Daniel Gautier, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 19 pages, 1 table, 8 figures. Typos corrected, reference updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008039
abstract: A detailled analysis of quantum key distribution employing entangled states is presented. We tested a system based on photon pairs entangled in energy-time optimized for long distance transmission. It is based on a Franson type set-up for monitoring quantum correlations, and uses a protocol analogous to BB84. Passive state preparation is implemented by polarization multiplexing in the interferometers. We distributed a sifted key of 0.4 Mbits at a raw rate of 134 Hz and with an error rate of 8.6% over a distance of 8.5 kilometers. We discuss thoroughly the noise sources and practical difficulties associated with entangled states systems. Finally the level of security offered by this system is assessed and compared with that of faint laser pulses systems.

id: quant-ph/0008040
title: Encoding a qubit in an oscillator
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Alexei Kitaev, John Preskill
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX, title change (qudit -> qubit) requested by Phys. Rev. A, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.A64:012310,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008040
abstract: Quantum error-correcting codes are constructed that embed a finite-dimensional code space in the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of a system described by continuous quantum variables. These codes exploit the noncommutative geometry of phase space to protect against errors that shift the values of the canonical variables q and p. In the setting of quantum optics, fault-tolerant universal quantum computation can be executed on the protected code subspace using linear optical operations, squeezing, homodyne detection, and photon counting; however, nonlinear mode coupling is required for the preparation of the encoded states. Finite-dimensional versions of these codes can be constructed that protect encoded quantum information against shifts in the amplitude or phase of a d-state system. Continuous-variable codes can be invoked to establish lower bounds on the quantum capacity of Gaussian quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0008041
title: Dynamics, Thermodynamics, and Time-Asymmetry
authors: Mario A. Castagnino, Edgerd Gunzig
comments: 103 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008041
abstract: 064<p type="texpara" tag="Body Text" et="abstract" bin="clone" >There are two schools, or lines of thought, that try to unify the apparently divergent laws of dynamics and thermodynamics and to explain the observed time-asymmetry of the universe, and most of its sub-systems, in spite of the fact that these systems are driven by time-symmetric evolution equations. They will be called the coarse-graining and the fine-graining schools (even if these names describe only a part of their philosophy). Coarse-graining school obtains time-asymmetry via a projection of the state space on a space of ''relevant'' states. The corresponding projection of the primitive reversible evolution laws yields effective irreversible evolution laws for the relevant states. Fine-graining always use the same primitive reversible evolution laws. But these laws (in adequate extensions of the usual spaces where these laws are formulated) have a set of solutions $S$ that can be decompose in two subsets $S_{+\text{}}$ and $S_{-}$ of time asymmetric solutions. Choosing one of these two sets, as the arena to formulate the theory, time asymmetry is established. The aim of these lectures is to explain, in the simplest- self-contained, unbiased, and, honest way, the main characteristics of both schools and to point out the advantages and disadvantages of both formalism, in such a way that, the polemic between the schools, turns out to be explicit and organized in the mind of the reader (who will be considered the supreme judge to give the final verdict). 064<p type="texpara" tag="Body Text" et="abstract" bin="clone" >Some cosmological features of the theory will be also considered, mainly the problem of the low entropy initial state of the universe

id: quant-ph/0008042
title: The Time-Asymmetry and the Entropy Gap
authors: Roberto Aquilano, Mario Castagnino
comments: 5 pages
journal: Modern Physics Lett. 11, 755, 1994
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008042
abstract: The universe time-asymmetry is essentially produced by its low-entropy unstable initial state. Using quanlitative arguments, Paul Davies has demonstrated that the universe expansion may diminish the entropy gap, therefore explaining its low-entropy state, with respect to the maximal possible entropy at any time. This idea is implemented in a qualitative way\thinspace in a simple homogeneous model. Some rough coincidence with observational data are found

id: quant-ph/0008043
title: Renormalization and Short Distance Singular Structure
authors: Mario Castagnino
comments: 26 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.40:2143-2182,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008043
abstract: The relation between renormalization and short distance singular divergencies in quantum field theory is studied. As a consequence a finite theory is presented. It is shown that these divergencies are originated by the multiplication of distributions (and worse defined mathematical objects). Some of them are eliminated defining a multiplication based in dimensional regularization while others disappear considering the states as functionals over the observables space. Non renormalizable theories turn to be finite, but anyhow they are endowed with infinite arbitrary constants.

id: quant-ph/0008044
title: Quantum authentication using entangled state
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 Pages, no Figure, Eq.(7) is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008044
abstract: A scheme of quantum authentication is presented. Two parties share Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs previously as the authentication key which servers as encoder and decoder. The authentication is accomplished with local controlled-NOT operations and unitary rotations. It is shown that our scheme is secure even in the presence of an eavesdropper who has complete control over both classical and quantum channels. Another character of this protocol is that the EPR sources are reusable. The robustness of this protocol is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0008045
title: Observation of power-law scaling for phase transitions in linear trapped ion crystals
authors: D. G. Enzer, M. M. Schauer, J. J. Gomez, M. S. Gulley, M. H. Holzscheiter, P. G. Kwiat, S. K. Lamoreaux, C. G. Peterson, V. D. Sandberg, D. Tupa, A. G. White, R. J. Hughes, D. F. V. James
comments: Physical Review Letters in press, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 85, no. 12, 2466-2470 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008045
abstract: We report an experimental confirmation of the power-law relationship between the critical anisotropy parameter and ion number for the linear-to-zigzag phase transition in an ionic crystal. Our experiment uses laser cooled calcium ions confined in a linear radio-frequency trap. Measurements for up to 10 ions are in good agreement with theoretical and numeric predictions. Implications on an upper limit to the size of data registers in ion trap quantum computers are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0008046
title: Secure quantum key distribution using squeezed states
authors: Daniel Gottesman, John Preskill
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX and epsf, new section on channel losses
journal: Phys.Rev. A63 (2001) 022309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008046
abstract: We prove the security of a quantum key distribution scheme based on transmission of squeezed quantum states of a harmonic oscillator. Our proof employs quantum error-correcting codes that encode a finite-dimensional quantum system in the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of an oscillator, and protect against errors that shift the canonical variables p and q. If the noise in the quantum channel is weak, squeezing signal states by 2.51 dB (a squeeze factor e^r=1.34) is sufficient in principle to ensure the security of a protocol that is suitably enhanced by classical error correction and privacy amplification. Secure key distribution can be achieved over distances comparable to the attenuation length of the quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0008047
title: A semidefinite program for distillable entanglement
authors: Eric M. Rains
comments: 28 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008047
abstract: We show that the maximum fidelity obtained by a p.p.t. distillation protocol is given by the solution to a certain semidefinite program. This gives a number of new lower and upper bounds on p.p.t. distillable entanglement (and thus new upper bounds on 2-locally distillable entanglement). In the presence of symmetry, the semidefinite program simplifies considerably, becoming a linear program in the case of isotropic and Werner states. Using these techniques, we determine the p.p.t. distillable entanglement of asymmetric Werner states and ``maximally correlated'' states. We conclude with a discussion of possible applications of semidefinite programming to quantum codes and 1-local distillation.

id: quant-ph/0008048
title: New Lower Bound on Fermion Binding Energies
authors: O. Juillet, S. Fleck, L. Theussl, J.-M. Richard, K. Varga
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys.Rev. B63 (2001) 073102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008048
abstract: We derive a new lower bound for the ground state energy $E^{\rm F}(N,S)$ of N fermions with total spin S in terms of binding energies $E^{\rm F}(N-1,S \pm 1/2)$ of (N-1) fermions. Numerical examples are provided for some simple short-range or confining potentials.

id: quant-ph/0008049
title: Correlated Errors in Quantum Error Corrections
authors: W. Y. Hwang, D. Ahn, S. W. Hwang
comments: no correction, 3 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 022303 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008049
abstract: We show that errors are not generated correlatedly provided that quantum bits do not directly interact with (or couple to) each other. Generally, this no-qubits-interaction condition is assumed except for the case where two-qubit gate operation is being performed. In particular, the no-qubits-interaction condition is satisfied in the collective decoherence models. Thus, errors are not correlated in the collective decoherence. Consequently, we can say that current quantum error correcting codes which correct single-qubit-errors will work in most cases including the collective decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0008050
title: Efficient Schemes for Reducing Imperfect Collective Decoherences
authors: W. Y. Hwang, H. J. Lee, D. Ahn, S. W. Hwang
comments: no correction, 3 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 062305 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008050
abstract: We propose schemes that are efficient when each pair of qubits undergoes some imperfect collective decoherence with different baths. In the proposed scheme, each pair of qubits is first encoded in a decoherence-free subspace composed of two qubits. Leakage out of the encoding space generated by the imperfection is reduced by the quantum Zeno effect. Phase errors in the encoded bits generated by the imperfection are reduced by concatenation of the decoherence-free subspace with either a three-qubit quantum error correcting code that corrects only phase errors or a two-qubit quantum error detecting code that detects only phase errors, connected with the quantum Zeno effect again.

id: quant-ph/0008051
title: Private entanglement over arbitrary distances, even using noisy apparatus
authors: Hans Aschauer, Hans J. Briegel
comments: Title changed. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008051
abstract: We give a security proof of quantum cryptography based entirely on entanglement purification. Our proof applies to all possible attacks (individual and coherent). It implies the security of cryptographic keys distributed with the help of entanglement-based quantum repeaters. We prove the security of the obtained quantum channel which may not only be used for quantum key distribution, but also for secure, albeit noisy, transmission of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0008052
title: Continuous-time histories: observables, probabilities, phase space structure and the classical limit
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 46 pages, latex; in this new version typographical errors have been removed and the presentation has been made clearer
journal: J.Math.Phys. 42 (2001) 3225
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008052
abstract: In this paper we elaborate on the structure of the continuous-time histories description of quantum theory, which stems from the consistent histories scheme. In particular, we examine the construction of history Hilbert space, the identification of history observables and the form of the decoherence functional (the object that contains the probability information). It is shown how the latter is equivalent to the closed-time-path (CTP) generating functional. We also study the phase space structure of the theory first through the construction of general representations of the history group (the analogue of the Weyl group) and the implementation of a histories Wigner-Weyl transform. The latter enables us to write quantum theory solely in terms of phase space quantities. These results enable the implementation of an algorithm for identifying the classical (stochastic) limit of a general quantum system.

id: quant-ph/0008053
title: Generation of eigenstates using the phase-estimation algorithm
authors: B. C. Travaglione, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 3 Figures, RevTeX4 Introduction expanded, typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A, Vol 63, 032301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008053
abstract: The phase estimation algorithm is so named because it allows the estimation of the eigenvalues associated with an operator. However it has been proposed that the algorithm can also be used to generate eigenstates. Here we extend this proposal for small quantum systems, identifying the conditions under which the phase estimation algorithm can successfully generate eigenstates. We then propose an implementation scheme based on an ion trap quantum computer. This scheme allows us to illustrate two simple examples, one in which the algorithm effectively generates eigenstates, and one in which it does not.

id: quant-ph/0008054
title: Structural Characterization of Compoundness
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 8 pages; lecture given at the fourth biannual conference of the International Quantum Structures Association, Liptovsky Jan, Slovakia, 1998
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 39, 585-594 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008054
abstract: We recover the rays in the tensor product of Hilbert spaces within a larger class of so called `states of compoundness', structured as a complete lattice with the `state of separation' as its top element. At the base of the construction lies the assumption that the cause of actuality of a property of one of the (as individual considered) entities in the compound system can be actuality of a property of the other one.

id: quant-ph/0008055
title: Product Bases in Quantum Information Theory
authors: David P. DiVincenzo, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; submitted to the Proceedings of the XIII International Congress on Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008055
abstract: We review the role of product bases in quantum information theory. We prove two conjectures which were made in DiVincenzo et al., quant-ph/9908070, namely the existence of two sets of bipartite unextendible product bases, in arbitrary dimensions, which are based on a tile construction. We pose some questions related to complete product bases.

id: quant-ph/0008056
title: Approximation Errors
authors: Nathan W. Panike
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008056
abstract: A bound on the error introduced by truncating a quantum addition is given. This bound shows that only a few controlled rotation gates will be necessary to get a reliable computation.

id: quant-ph/0008057
title: Hybrid quantum computing
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 12 pages, latex2e, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008057
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for the construction of a hybrid quantum computer that operates on both continuous and discrete quantum variables. Such hybrid computers are shown to be more efficient than conventional quantum computers for performing a variety of quantum algorithms, such as computing eigenvectors and eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0008058
title: Quantum Distribution of Gaussian Keys with Squeezed States
authors: N. J. Cerf, M. Levy, G. Van Assche
comments: 5 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 052311 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008058
abstract: A continuous key distribution scheme is proposed that relies on a pair of canonically conjugate quantum variables. It allows two remote parties to share a secret Gaussian key by encoding it into one of the two quadrature components of a single-mode electromagnetic field. The resulting quantum cryptographic information vs disturbance tradeoff is investigated for an individual attack based on the optimal continuous cloning machine. It is shown that the information gained by the eavesdropper then simply equals the information lost by the receiver.

id: quant-ph/0008059
title: Quantum Algorithms for Weighing Matrices and Quadratic Residues
authors: Wim van Dam
comments: 18 pages, no figures, LaTeX2e, uses packages {amssymb,amsmath}; classical upper bounds added, presentation improved
journal: Algorithmica, Volume 34, No. 4, pages 413-428 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008059
abstract: In this article we investigate how we can employ the structure of combinatorial objects like Hadamard matrices and weighing matrices to device new quantum algorithms. We show how the properties of a weighing matrix can be used to construct a problem for which the quantum query complexity is ignificantly lower than the classical one. It is pointed out that this scheme captures both Bernstein & Vazirani's inner-product protocol, as well as Grover's search algorithm. In the second part of the article we consider Paley's construction of Hadamard matrices, which relies on the properties of quadratic characters over finite fields. We design a query problem that uses the Legendre symbol chi (which indicates if an element of a finite field F_q is a quadratic residue or not). It is shown how for a shifted Legendre function f_s(i)=chi(i+s), the unknown s in F_q can be obtained exactly with only two quantum calls to f_s. This is in sharp contrast with the observation that any classical, probabilistic procedure requires more than log(q) + log((1-e)/2) queries to solve the same problem.

id: quant-ph/0008060
title: The histories interpretation: stability instead of consistency?
authors: C. J. S. Clarke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008060
abstract: Using a reformulation of conventional results in decoherence theory, a condition is proposed for singling out a distinguished class of histories which includes those which use the ``pointer basis'' of Zurek.

id: quant-ph/0008061
title: Classical representations for quantum-like systems through an axiomatics for context dependence
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 15 pages
journal: Helvetica Physica Acta 70, 442-461 (1997)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008061
abstract: We introduce a definition for a 'hidden measurement system', i.e., a physical entity for which there exist: (i) 'a set of non-contextual states of the entity under study' and (ii) 'a set of states of the measurement context', and which are such that all uncertainties are due to a lack of knowledge on the actual state of the measurement context. First we identify an explicit criterion that enables us to verify whether a given hidden measurement system is a representation of a given couple $\Si,{\cal E}$ consisting of a set of states $\Si$ and a set of measurements ${\cal E}$ ($=$ measurement system). Then we prove for every measurement system that there exists at least one representation as a hidden measurement system with $[0,1]$ as set of states of the measurement context. Thus, we can apply this definition of a hidden measurement system to impose an axiomatics for context dependence. We show that in this way we always find classical representations (hidden measurement representations) for general non-classical entities (e.g. quantum entities).

id: quant-ph/0008062
title: A classification of classical representations for quantum-like systems
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 13 pages; 2 figs
journal: Helvetica Physica Acta 70, 462-477 (1997)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008062
abstract: For general non-classical systems, we study the different classical representations that fulfill the specific context dependence imposed by the hidden measurement system formalism introduced in quant-ph/0008061. We show that the collection of non-equivalent representations has a poset structure. We also show that in general, there exists no 'smallest' representation, since this poset is not a semi-lattice. Then we study the possible representations of quantum-like measurement systems. For example, we show that there exists a classical representation of finite dimensional quantum mechanics with ${\Bbb N}$ as a set of states for the measurement context, and we build an explicit example of such a representation.

id: quant-ph/0008063
title: Interacting Stochastic Process and Renormalization Theory
authors: Yaroslav Volovich
comments: 15 pages, 4-eps figures, LaTeX, misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008063
abstract: A stochastic process with self-interaction as a model of quantum field theory is studied. We consider an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck stochastic process x(t) with interaction of the form x^{(\alpha)}(t)^4, where $\alpha$ indicates the fractional derivative. Using Bogoliubov's R-operation we investigate ultraviolet divergencies for the various parameters $\alpha$. Ultraviolet properties of this one-dimensional model in the case $\alpha=3/4$ are similar to those in the $\phi^4_4$ theory but there are extra counterterms. It is shown that the model is two-loops renormalizable. For $5/8\leq \alpha < 3/4$ the model has a finite number of divergent Feynman diagrams. In the case $\alpha=2/3$ the model is similar to the $\phi^4_3$ theory. If $0 \leq \alpha < 5/8$ then the model does not have ultraviolet divergencies at all. Finally if $\alpha > 3/4$ then the model is nonrenormalizable. This model can be used for a non-perturbative study of ultraviolet divergencies in quantum field theory and also in theory of phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0008064
title: Security of EPR-based Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Hitoshi Inamori
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008064
abstract: We propose a proof of the security of EPR-based quantum key distribution against enemies with unlimited computational power. The proof holds for a protocol using interactive error-reconciliation scheme. We assume in this paper that the legitimate parties receive a given number of single photon signals and that their measurement devices are perfect.

id: quant-ph/0008065
title: Universal quantum computation with two-level trapped ions
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 012306 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008065
abstract: Although the initial proposal for ion trap quantum computation made use of an auxiliary internal level to perform logic between ions, this resource is not necessary in principle. Instead, one may perform such operations directly using sideband laser pulses, operating with an arbitrary (sufficiently small) Lamb-Dicke parameter. We explore the potential of this technique, showing how to perform logical operations between the internal state of an ion and the collective motional state and giving explicit constructions for a controlled-not gate between ions.

id: quant-ph/0008066
title: "Shaking" of an atom in a non-stationary cavity
authors: A.M. Fedotov, N.B. Narozhny, Yu.E. Lozovik
comments: 12 pages,4 *.eps figures, this version is identical to the one to be published in Physics Letters A (in print)
journal: Physics Letters A274(5-6), 2000, pp.213-222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008066
abstract: We consider an atom interacting with a quantized electromagnetic field inside a cavity with variable parameters. The atom in the ground state located in the initially empty cavity can be excited by variation of cavity parameters. We have discovered two mechanisms of atomic excitation. The first arises due to the interaction of the atom with the non-stationary electromagnetic field created by modulation of cavity parameters. If the characteristic time of variation of cavity parameters is of the order of the atomic transition time, the processes of photon creation and atomic excitation are going on simultaneously and hence excitation of the atom cannot be reduced to trivial absorption of the photons produced by the dynamical Casimir effect. The second mechanism is "shaking" of the atom due to fast modulation of its ground state Lamb shift which takes place as a result of fast variation of cavity arameters. The last mechanism has no connection with the vacuum dynamical Casimir effect. Moreover, it opens a new channel of photon creation in the non-stationary cavity. Nevertheless, the process of photon creation is altered by the presence of the atom in the cavity, even if one disregards the existence of the new channel. In particular, it removes the restriction for creation of only even number of photons and also changes the expectation value for the number of created photons. Our consideration is based on a simple model of a two-level atom interacting with a single mode of the cavity field. Qualitatively our results are valid for a real atom in a physical cavity.

id: quant-ph/0008067
title: Strictly isospectral potentials from excited quantum states
authors: R. Klippert, H.C. Rosu
comments: 13 pages in latex epsfig, 8 figures, misprints in Eq. 11 corrected
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 41 (2002) 331-340
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008067
abstract: The strictly nonrelativistic isospectral scheme based on the general Riccati solution and Darboux transformation function corresponding to excited states is presented on the following examples: the harmonic oscillator, the square well, and the hydrogen atom

id: quant-ph/0008068
title: Hybrid classical-quantum dynamics
authors: Asher Peres, Daniel Terno
comments: 7 pages LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 022101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008068
abstract: A hybrid formalism is proposed for interacting classical and quantum sytems. This formalism is mathematically consistent and reduces to standard classical and quantum mechanics in the case of no interaction. However, in the presence of interaction, the correspondence principle is violated.

id: quant-ph/0008069
title: Bures Geometry of the Three-Level Quantum Systems. I
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: Eight pages, LaTeX, two postscript figures, minor changes, to appear in J. Geom. Phys
journal: Journal of Geometry and Physics 39(3), 207-216 (Sept. 2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008069
abstract: We compute, using a formula of Dittmann, the Bures metric tensor (g) for the eight-dimensional convex set of three-level quantum systems, employing a newly-developed Euler angle-based parameterization of the 3 x 3 density matrices. Most of the individual metric elements (g_{ij}) are found to be expressible in relatively compact form, many of them in fact being exactly zero.

id: quant-ph/0008070
title: Universal simulation of Markovian quantum dynamics
authors: Dave Bacon, Andrew M. Childs, Isaac L. Chuang, Julia Kempe, Debbie W. Leung, Xinlan Zhou
comments: 8 pages, REVTeX; added appendix on affine representation of generators
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 062302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008070
abstract: Although the conditions for performing arbitrary unitary operations to simulate the dynamics of a closed quantum system are well understood, the same is not true of the more general class of quantum operations (also known as superoperators) corresponding to the dynamics of open quantum systems. We propose a framework for the generation of Markovian quantum dynamics and study the resources needed for universality. For the case of a single qubit, we show that a single nonunitary process is necessary and sufficient to generate all unital Markovian quantum dynamics, whereas a set of processes parametrized by one continuous parameter is needed in general. We also obtain preliminary results for the unital case in higher dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0008071
title: Toward the multiphoton parametric oscillators
authors: G.Yu.Kryuchkyan, N.T.Muradyan
comments: 3 figures, submitted to Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008071
abstract: We propose novel types of parametric oscillators generating both three-photon and four-photon bright light which are accessible for an experiment. The devices are based on the cascaded down-conversion processes and consist of second-order media inserted in two-resonant mode cavity. Discussion of dissipation and quantum features of the system are performed by the quantum-jump simulation method and concerns to the Wigner functions. The phase-space multistabilities and critical threshold behavior of three- and four-photon subharmonics are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0008072
title: Preparation and light-mediated distribution of motional state entanglement
authors: A.S. Parkins, E. Larsabal
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008072
abstract: We describe and analyse numerically schemes (i) for entangling orthogonal motional modes of one or a few harmonically-trapped atoms or ions, and (ii) for transferring the entanglement from one of these local modes to a distant trapped atom (or atoms) via a light-mediated quantum state transfer procedure proposed in previous work [A.S. Parkins and H.J. Kimble, J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 1, 496 (1999)]. Possibilities arising from these schemes include the generation of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen state in the positions and momenta of distantly-separated trapped atoms and the preparation of delocalized mesoscopic vibrational states.

id: quant-ph/0008073
title: Characterizing mixing and measurement in quantum mechanics
authors: M. A. Nielsen
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physical Review A 61 (6): Art. No. 064301 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008073
abstract: What fundamental constraints characterize the relationship between a mixture $\rho = \sum_i p_i \rho_i$ of quantum states, the states $\rho_i$ being mixed, and the probabilities $p_i$? What fundamental constraints characterize the relationship between prior and posterior states in a quantum measurement? In this paper we show that there are many surprisingly strong constraints on these mixing and measurement processes that can be expressed simply in terms of the eigenvalues of the quantum states involved. These constraints capture in a succinct fashion what it means to say that a quantum measurement acquires information about the system being measured, and considerably simplify the proofs of many results about entanglement transformation.

id: quant-ph/0008074
title: Precise calculation of the Casimir force between gold surfaces
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, M. V. Lokhanin
comments: 5 pages, REVTEX, 2 PS figures, to be published in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A15 (2000) 1437
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008074
abstract: We analyse the result of precise measurement of the Casimir force between bodies covered with gold. The values of the parameters used to extrapolate the gold dielectric function to low frequencies are very important and discussed in detail. The finite temperature effect is shown to exceed considerably the experimental errors. The upper limit on the force is found which is smaller than the measured force. Many experimental and theoretical uncertainties were excluded with gold covering and we conclude that, possibly, a new force has been detected at small separations between bodies.

id: quant-ph/0008075
title: Tuning the scattering length on the ground triplet state of Cs_2
authors: V. Kokoouline, J. Vala, R. Kosloff
comments: 4 figures, a discussion of influence of the C_6 coeficient on the scattering length of different isotopes is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008075
abstract: We develop two schemes for tuning the scattering length on the ground triplet state of Cs_2. First, an absolute value of the triplet scattering length of ^{133}Cs_2 is determined using the experimental data (Fioretti et al, Eur.Phys.J. 5, 389 (1999)). We demonstrate that the large scattering length can be made small and positive by coupling of the ^3\Sigma_u^+ (6S + 6S) potential to the ^3\Pi_g state by strong off-resonant radiation. A weaker laser field coupling the ^3\Sigma_u^+ (6S + 6S) continuum to the lowest bound level of the excited ^3\Sigma_g^+ (6S + 6P) also leads to a small positive scattering length. In addition, the scattering length of the ^{135}Cs isotope is found to be positive. The method used solves the Schroedinger equation for two electronic states coupled by an electromagnetic field with approximations employed. The scattering length is determined from calculated continuum wavefunctions of low energy.

id: quant-ph/0008076
title: Security of EPR-based Quantum Key Distribution using three bases
authors: Hitoshi Inamori
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008076
abstract: Modifications to a previous proof of the security of EPR-based quantum key distribution are proposed. This modified version applies to a protocol using three conjugate measurement bases rather than two. A higher tolerable error rate is obtained for the three-basis protocol.

id: quant-ph/0008077
title: Diffraction of wave packets in space and time
authors: G. K?lbermann
comments: replaces quant-ph 0008077, 0008107, Journal of physics, A, in press
journal: J.Phys.A34:6465-6480,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008077
abstract: The phenomenon of wave packet diffraction in space and time is described. It consists in a diffraction pattern whose spatial location progresses with time. The pattern is produced by wave packet quantum scattering off an attractive or repulsive time independent potential. An analytical formula for the pattern at $t\to\infty$ is derived both in one dimension and in three dimensions. The condition for the pattern to exist is developed. The phenomenon is shown numerically and analytically for the Dirac equation in one dimension also. An experiment for the verification of the phenomenon is described and simulated numerically.

id: quant-ph/0008078
title: Remote information concentration using a bound entangled state
authors: Mio Murao, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 352 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008078
abstract: Remote information concentration, the reverse process of quantum telecloning, is presented. In this scheme, quantum information originally from a single qubit, but now distributed into three spatially separated qubits, is remotely concentrated back to a single qubit via an initially shared entangled state without performing any global operations. This entangled state is an unlockable bound entangled state and we analyze its properties.

id: quant-ph/0008079
title: Phase diffusion as a model for coherent suppression of tunneling in the presence of noise
authors: J. Grondalski, P. M. Alsing, I. H. Deutsch
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008079
abstract: We study the stabilization of coherent suppression of tunneling in a driven double-well system subject to random periodic $\delta-$function ``kicks''. We model dissipation due to this stochastic process as a phase diffusion process for an effective two-level system and derive a corresponding set of Bloch equations with phase damping terms that agree with the periodically kicked system at discrete times. We demonstrate that the ability of noise to localize the system on either side of the double-well potenital arises from overdamping of the phase of oscillation and not from any cooperative effect between the noise and the driving field. The model is investigated with a square wave drive, which has qualitatively similar features to the widely studied cosinusoidal drive, but has the additional advantage of allowing one to derive exact analytic expressions.

id: quant-ph/0008080
title: Reply to Comment on "Counterfactual Entanglement and Nonlocal Correlations in Separable States"
authors: Oliver Cohen
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008080
abstract: Two objections have been raised to the arguments presented in O. Cohen, Phys. Rev. A 60, 80 (1999). It is pointed out that neither objection has anything whatsoever to do with the main subject matter of that paper, and shown that both objections are based on misunderstandings of the examples to which they relate.

id: quant-ph/0008081
title: A Feynman-Kac Formula for Anticommuting Brownian Motion
authors: Steven Leppard, Alice Rogers
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008081
abstract: Motivated by application to quantum physics, anticommuting analogues of Wiener measure and Brownian motion are constructed. The corresponding Ito integrals are defined and the existence and uniqueness of solutions to a class of stochastic differential equations is established. This machinery is used to provide a Feynman-Kac formula for a class of Hamiltonians. Several specific examples are considered.

id: quant-ph/0008082
title: Detection statistics in the micromaser
authors: David B. Johnson, W.C. Shieve
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008082
abstract: We present a general method for the derivation of various statistical quantities describing the detection of a beam of atoms emerging from a micromaser. The user of non-normalized conditioned density operators and a linear master equation for the dynamics between detection events is discussed as are the counting statistics, sequence statistics, and waiting time statistics. In particular, we derive expressions for the mean number of successive detections of atoms in one of any two orthogonal states of the two-level atom. We also derive expressions for the mean waiting times between detections. We show that the mean waiting times between de- tections of atoms in like states are equivalent to the mean waiting times calculated from the uncorrelated steady state detection rates, though like atoms are indeed correlated. The mean waiting times between detections of atoms in unlike states exhibit correlations. We evaluate the expressions for various detector efficiencies using numerical integration, reporting re- sults for the standard micromaser arrangement in which the cavity is pumped by excited atoms and the excitation levels of the emerging atoms are measured. In addition, the atomic inversion and the Fano-Mandel function for the detection of de-excited atoms is calculated for compari- son to the recent experimental results of Weidinger et al. [1], which reports the first observation of trapping states.

id: quant-ph/0008083
title: Wave Packet Echoes in the Motion of Trapped Atoms
authors: F.B.J. Buchkremer, R. Dumke, H. Levsen, G. Birkl, W. Ertmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3121 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008083
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate and systematically study the stimulated revival (echo) of motional wave packet oscillations. For this purpose, we prepare wave packets in an optical lattice by non-adiabatically shifting the potential and stimulate their reoccurence by a second shift after a variable time delay. This technique, analogous to spin echoes, enables one even in the presence of strong dephasing to determine the coherence time of the wave packets. We find that for strongly bound atoms it is comparable to the cooling time and much longer than the inverse of the photon scattering rate.

id: quant-ph/0008084
title: Exact relativistic time evolution for a step potential barrier
authors: Jorge Villavicencio
comments: 12 pages, 8 postscript figures. Accepted for publication in: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. (2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008084
abstract: We derive an exact analytic solution to a Klein-Gordon equation for a step potential barrier with cutoff plane wave initial conditions, in order to explore wave evolution in a classical forbidden region. We find that the relativistic solution rapidly evanesces within a depth $2x_p$ inside the potential, where $x_p$ is the penetration length of the stationary solution. Beyond the characteristic distance $2x_p$, a Sommerfeld-type precursor travels along the potential at the speed of light, $c$. However, no spatial propagation of a main wavefront along the structure is observed. We also find a non-causal time evolution of the wavefront peak. The effect is only an apparent violation of Einstein causality.

id: quant-ph/0008085
title: Bell's theorem without inequalities and without probabilities for two observers
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (2001) 1911-1914
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008085
abstract: A proof of Bell's theorem using two maximally entangled states of two qubits is presented. It exhibits a similar logical structure to Hardy's argument of ``nonlocality without inequalities''. However, it works for 100% of the runs of a certain experiment. Therefore, it can also be viewed as a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-like proof involving only two spacelike separated regions.

id: quant-ph/0008086
title: Nonclassical Phenomena in Multiphoton Interferometry: More Stringent Tests Against Local Realism
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: PhD thesis, 101 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008086
abstract: The thesis is divided into three parts. In the first part a new theoretical analysis of interferometric experiments by Alley-Shih, Ou-Mandel and the entanglement swapping experiment is performed. It is shown that the double- and single-photon distinguishability is not necessary for the experiments to be genuine tests against local realism. In the second part, basing on simple geometrical properties of Hilbert space, new, stronger Bell inequalities for M qubits in a maximally entangled state are derived. Application of the same method to two maximally entangled qubits yields an inequality for all possible positions of the local measuring apparatus. Finally, the series of the Greenberger-Horne- Zeilinger paradoxes for M maximally entangled quNits observed via symmetric unbiased 2N ports is derived. The last part of the thesis is devoted to the numerical approach to the Bell theorem. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the violation of local realism in the case of two and three maximally entangled qubits, on which each observer performs up to 10 (two qubits) and up to 5 (three qubits) local measurements, are shown. It is also numerically shown that in the case of two maximally entangled quNits (3 < N < 9) a properly defined magnitude of violation increases with N. In both cases the approach neither involves any simplifications, or additional assumptions, nor does it utilise any symmetries of the problem.

id: quant-ph/0008087
title: Curve crossing in linear potential grids: the quasidegeneracy approximation
authors: V. A. Yurovsky, A. Ben-Reuven
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages, 8 PostScript figures, uses REVTeX and psfig, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 2001 043404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008087
abstract: The quasidegeneracy approximation [V. A. Yurovsky, A. Ben-Reuven, P. S. Julienne, and Y. B. Band, J. Phys. B {\bf 32}, 1845 (1999)] is used here to evaluate transition amplitudes for the problem of curve crossing in linear potential grids involving two sets of parallel potentials. The approximation describes phenomena, such as counterintuitive transitions and saturation (incomplete population transfer), not predictable by the assumption of independent crossings. Also, a new kind of oscillations due to quantum interference (different from the well-known St\"uckelberg oscillations) is disclosed, and its nature discussed. The approximation can find applications in many fields of physics, where multistate curve crossing problems occur.

id: quant-ph/0008088
title: The Casimir Problem of Spherical Dielectrics: Quantum Statistical and Field Theoretical Approaches
authors: J. S. H?ye, I. Brevik, J. B. Aarseth
comments: 31 pages, LaTeX, one new reference; version to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys.Rev.E63:051101,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008088
abstract: The Casimir free energy for a system of two dielectric concentric nonmagnetic spherical bodies is calculated with use of a quantum statistical mechanical method, at arbitrary temperature. By means of this rather novel method, which turns out to be quite powerful (we have shown this to be true in other situations also), we consider first an explicit evaluation of the free energy for the static case, corresponding to zero Matsubara frequency ($n=0$). Thereafter, the time-dependent case is examined. For comparison we consider the calculation of the free energy with use of the more commonly known field theoretical method, assuming for simplicity metallic boundary surfaces.

id: quant-ph/0008089
title: Tripartite entanglement and quantum relative entropy
authors: E. F. Galvao, M. B. Plenio, S. Virmani
comments: 7 pages, revtex, no figures. v2: discussion about recent results, 2 refs. added. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A 33, 8809 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008089
abstract: We establish relations between tripartite pure state entanglement and additivity properties of the bipartite relative entropy of entanglement. Our results pertain to the asymptotic limit of local manipulations on a large number of copies of the state. We show that additivity of the relative entropy would imply that there are at least two inequivalent types of asymptotic tripartite entanglement. The methods used include the application of some useful lemmas that enable us to analytically calculate the relative entropy for some classes of bipartite states.

id: quant-ph/0008090
title: Effective Hamiltonian Approach to the Master Equation
authors: X.X. Yi, S.X. Yu
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008090
abstract: A method of exactly solving the master equation is presented in this letter. The explicit form of the solution is determined by the time evolution of a composite system including an auxiliary system and the open system in question. The effective Hamiltonian governing the time evolution of the composed system are derived from the master equation. Two examples, the dissipative two-level system and the damped harmonic oscillator, are presented to illustrate the solving procedure. PACS number(s): 05.30.-d, 05.40.+j, 42.50.Ct

id: quant-ph/0008091
title: Quantum Measurement and Shannon Information, A Reply to M. J. W. Hall
authors: Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008091
abstract: Motivated by Hall's recent comment in quant-ph/0007116 we point out in some detail the essence of our reasoning why we believe that Shannon's information is not an adequate choice when defining the information gain in quantum measurements as opposed to classical observations.

id: quant-ph/0008092
title: One Hundred Years of Quantum Physics
authors: Daniel Kleppner, Roman Jackiw
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, slightly edited text of article published in Science, August 11, 2000 (Pathways of Discovery); email to kleppner@mit.edu or jackiw@mitlns.mit.edu
journal: Science 289 (2000) 893-898
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008092
abstract: On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the birth of the quantum idea, the development, achievements, and promises of quantum mechanics are described.

id: quant-ph/0008093
title: Resonance fluorescence in a band gap material: Direct numerical simulation of non-Markovian evolution
authors: M. W. Jack, J. J. Hope
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008093
abstract: A numerical method of calculating the non-Markovian evolution of a driven atom radiating into a structured continuum is developed. The formal solution for the atomic reduced density matrix is written as a Markovian algorithm by introducing a set of additional, virtual density matrices which follow, to the level of approximation of the algorithm, all the possible trajectories of the photons in the electromagnetic field. The technique is perturbative in the sense that more virtual density matrices are required as the product of the effective memory time and the effective coupling strength become larger. The number of density matrices required is given by $3^{M}$ where $M$ is the number of timesteps per memory time. The technique is applied to the problem of a driven two-level atom radiating close to a photonic band gap and the steady-state correlation function of the atom is calculated.

id: quant-ph/0008094
title: A convenient method to prepare the effective pure state in a quantum ensemble
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008094
abstract: A simple method is proposed to prepare conveniently the effective pure state |00...0><0...00| with any number of qubits in a quantum ensemble. The preparation is based on the temporal averaging (Knill, Chuang, and Laflamme, Phys.Rev.A 57, 3348(1998)). The quantum circuit to prepare the effective pure state is designed in a unified and systematical form and is explicitly decomposed completely into a product of a series of one-qubit quantum gates and the two-qubit diagonal quantum gates. The preparation could be programmed and implemented conveniently on an NMR quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0008095
title: Entropy lower bounds of quantum decision tree complexity
authors: Yaoyun Shi
comments: 7 pages Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008095
abstract: We prove a general lower bound of quantum decision tree complexity in terms of some entropy notion. We regard the computation as a communication process in which the oracle and the computer exchange several rounds of messages, each round consisting of O(log(n)) bits. Let E(f) be the Shannon entropy of the random variable f(X), where X is uniformly random in f's domain. Our main result is that it takes \Omega(E(f)) queries to compute any \emph{total} function f. It is interesting to contrast this bound with the \Omega(E(f)/log(n)) bound, which is tight for \emph{partial} functions. Our approach is the polynomial method.

id: quant-ph/0008096
title: Quantum Optical Discussion of Uncertainty and Complementarity in a Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: D. Ludwin, Y. Ben-Aryeh, A. Mann
comments: 15 'microsoft-word' pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008096
abstract: We discuss complementarity and uncertainty in a gedanken Which-Way (Welcher-Weg) experiment in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Although a Welcher-Weg measurement can be performed with only a negligible amount of momentum change in the detector itself, the change in the interference pattern must correspond to a change in the momentum distribution of the particle. Entanglement between the Mach-Zehnder interferometer and the Welcher-Weg measurement introduces orthogonality that disables the interference of the particle, but simultaneously, it also generates a momentum transfer between the particle and other parts of the whole entangled system (including macroscopic parts). This analysis can be related to the Delayed Choice interpretation. We show where the momentum change takes place and we conclude that entanglement is the key to understand how complementarity (i.e. Which Way versus interference) and the position-momentum uncertainty relation are interwoven.

id: quant-ph/0008097
title: Why do Bell experiments?
authors: Ian C. Percival
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to be submitted to Nature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008097
abstract: Experiments over three decades have been unable to demonstrate weak nonlocality in the sense of Bell unambiguously, without loopholes. The last important loophole remaining is the detection loophole, which is being tackled by at least three experimental groups. This letter counters five common beliefs about Bell experiments, and presents alternative scenarios for future developments.

id: quant-ph/0008098
title: Invariants of Elementary Observations
authors: Johann Summhammer
comments: 27 pages with 10 postscript figures in text. To appear in "The Third Millenium" edited by Cristian Calude. Email: summhammer@ati.ac.at
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008098
abstract: As physics searches for invariants in observations, this paper looks for invariants of probabilistic observation without assuming physical structure. Structure emerges from the basic assumption of science that new information shall lead to more accurate knowledge of the invariants. This leads to statistically unique random variables for expressing observed information: Complex probability amplitudes. Predictions are also just random variables computed from observed data, and must become more accurate with more observations as input. This singles out the quantum mechanical superposition principle. The external conditions of a probabilistic experiment can themselves be monitored at the most detailed level, resulting in observation of coicidence probabilities. The invariants of any multi-coincidence experiment are the same as those of a one-event experiment with the same number of possible outcomes. An observable probability turns out to be controllable by two independent experimental conditions, naturally parametrized as a direction in a 3-dimensional space. In summary, the probabilistic paradigm itself defines a unique method of forming concepts and making predictions. The method appears irrefutable within probability, because, whenever a prediction turns out wrong the existence of an as yet unmonitored condition is postulated, and a formal way to incoroporate it is shown. The Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory seems to be isomorphic to this method.

id: quant-ph/0008099
title: Control of Decoherence and Correlation in Single Quantum Dissipative Oscillator Systems
authors: R.W. Rendell, A.K. Rajagopal
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 279, 175 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008099
abstract: A single quantum dissipative oscillator described by the Lindblad equation serves as a model for a nanosystem. This model is solved exactly by using the ambiguity function. The solution shows the features of decoherence (spatial extent of quantum behavior), correlation (spatial scale over which the system localizes to its physical dimensions), and mixing (mixed- state spatial correlation). A new relation between these length scales is obtained here. By varying the parameters contained in the Lindblad equation, it is shown that decoherence and correlation can be controlled. We indicate possible interpretation of the Lindblad parameters in the context of experiments using engineered reservoirs.

id: quant-ph/0008100
title: Uncertainty Relations for Entangled States
authors: G. Rigolin
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, LaTex. Published version
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 15, 293-298 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008100
abstract: A generalized uncertainty relation for an entangled pair of particles is obtained if we impose a symmetrization rule for all operators that we should use when doing any calculation using the entangled wave function of the pair. This new relation reduces to Heisenberg's uncertainty relation when the particles have no correlation and suggests that we can have new lower bounds for the product of position and momentum dispersions.

id: quant-ph/0008101
title: Control of open quantum systems dynamics
authors: Seth Lloyd, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, no figures; REVTeX style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008101
abstract: We investigate the control resources needed to effect arbitrary quantum dynamics. We show that the ability to perform measurements on a quantum system, combined with the ability to feed back the measurement results via coherent control, allows one to control the system to follow any desired open-system evolution. Such universal control can be achieved, in principle, through the repeated application of only two coherent control operations and a simple ``Yes-No'' measurement.

id: quant-ph/0008102
title: Lateral projection as a possible explanation of the nontrivial boundary dependence of the Casimir force
authors: G.L.Klimchitskaya, S.I.Zanette, A.O.Caride
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008102
abstract: We find the lateral projection of the Casimir force for a configuration of a sphere above a corrugated plate. This force tends to change the sphere position in the direction of a nearest corrugation maximum. The probability distribution describing different positions of a sphere above a corrugated plate is suggested which is fitted well with experimental data demonstrating the nontrivial boundary dependence of the Casimir force.

id: quant-ph/0008103
title: Dynamical localization and signatures of classical phase space
authors: Farhan Saif
comments: 12Pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008103
abstract: We study the dynamical localization of cold atoms in Fermi accelerator both in position space and in momentum space. We report the role of classical phase space in the development of dynamical localization phenomenon. We provide set of experimentally assessable parameters to perform this work in laboratory.

id: quant-ph/0008104
title: Dynamical Revivals in Fermi Accelerator Model
authors: Farhan Saif
comments: 4pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008104
abstract: We investigate quantum revivals in the dynamics of an atom in an atomic Fermi accelerator. It is demonstrated that the external driving field influences the revival time significantly. Analytical expressions are presented which are based on semiclassical secular theory. These analytical results explain the dependence of the revival time on the characteristic parameters of the problem quantitatively in a simple way. They are in excellent agreement with numerical results.

id: quant-ph/0008105
title: Two-state system driven by imperfect pi pulses: an estimate of the error accumulation in bang-bang control methods
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008105
abstract: The evolution of a two-state system driven by a sequence of imperfect pi pulses (with random phase or amplitude errors) is calculated. The resulting decreased fidelity is used to derive a plausible limit on the performance of "bang-bang" control methods for the suppression of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0008106
title: Off Resonant Pumping for Transition from Continuous to Discrete Spectrum and Quantum Revivals in Systems in Coherent States
authors: G. S. Agarwal, J. Banerji
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Jnl. of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008106
abstract: We show that in parametrically driven systems and, more generally, in systems in coherent states, off-resonant pumping can cause a transition from a continuum energy spectrum of the system to a discrete one, and result in quantum revivals of the initial state. The mechanism responsible for quantum revivals in the present case is different from that in the non-linear wavepacket dynamics of systems such as Rydberg atoms. We interpret the reported phenomena as an optical analog of Bloch oscillations realized in Fock space and propose a feasible scheme for inducing Bloch oscillations in trapped ions.

id: quant-ph/0008107
title: Diffraction of wave packets in space and time in three dimensions
authors: G. K?lbermann
comments: Latex format, graph corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008107
abstract: A simple formula for the scattering of wave packets from a square well at long times is derived. The expression shows that the phenomenon of wave packet diffraction in space and time exists in three dimensions also. An experiment for the verification of the phenomenon is described and simulated numerically.

id: quant-ph/0008108
title: Quantum nonlinear dynamics of continuously measured systems
authors: A.J.Scott, G.J.Milburn
comments: 11 pages, REVTEX, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042101 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008108
abstract: Classical dynamics is formulated as a Hamiltonian flow on phase space, while quantum mechanics is formulated as a unitary dynamics in Hilbert space. These different formulations have made it difficult to directly compare quantum and classical nonlinear dynamics. Previous solutions have focussed on computing quantities associated with a statistical ensemble such as variance or entropy. However a more direct comparison would compare classical predictions to the quantum for continuous simultaneous measurement of position and momentum of a single system. In this paper we give a theory of such measurement and show that chaotic behaviour in classical systems can be reproduced by continuously measured quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0008109
title: Fokker-Planck and Langevin Equations from Forward--Backward Path Integral
authors: Hagen Kleinert
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Ann. Phys. 291 (2001) 14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008109
abstract: Starting from a forward--backward path integral of a point particle in a bath of harmonic oscillators, we derive the Fokker-Planck and Langevin equations with and without inertia. Special emphasis is placed upon the correct operator order in the time evolution operator. The crucial step is the evaluation of a Jacobian with a retarded time derivative by analytic regularization.

id: quant-ph/0008110
title: Implementing universal multi-qubit quantum logic gates in three and four-spin systems at room temperature
authors: J. F. Du, M. J. Shi, J. H. Wu, X. Y. Zhou, R. D. Han
comments: 5 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: Physics Review A 63, 042302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008110
abstract: In this paper, we present the experimental realization of multi-qubit gates $% \Lambda_n(not) $ in macroscopic ensemble of three-qubit and four-qubit molecules. Instead of depending heavily on the two-bit universal gate, which served as the basic quantum operation in quantum computing, we use pulses of well-defined frequency and length that simultaneously apply to all qubits in a quantum register. It appears that this method is experimentally convenient when this procedure is extended to more qubits on some quantum computation, and it can also be used in other physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0008111
title: Atom Chip for Transporting and Merging Magnetically Trapped Atom Clouds
authors: W. H?nsel, J. Reichel, P. Hommelhoff, T. W. H?nsch
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008111
abstract: We demonstrate an integrated magnetic ``atom chip'' which transports cold trapped atoms near a surface with very high positioning accuracy. Time-dependent currents in a lithographic conductor pattern create a moving chain of magnetic potential wells; atoms are transported in these wells while remaining confined in all three dimensions. We achieve fluxes up to 10^6 /s with a negligible heating rate. An extension of this ``atomic conveyor belt'' allows the merging of magnetically trapped atom clouds by unification of two Ioffe-Pritchard potentials. Under suitable conditions, the clouds merge without loss of phase space density. We demonstrate this unification process experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0008112
title: Analogical Modeling and Quantum Computing
authors: Royal Skousen
comments: 38 pages; explains relationship between linguistic theory of analogical modeling and quantum computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008112
abstract: This paper serves as a bridge between quantum computing and analogical modeling (a general theory for predicting categories of behavior in varying contexts). Since its formulation in the early 1980s, analogical modeling has been successfully applied to a variety of problems in language. Several striking similarities between quantum mechanics and analogical modeling have recently been noted: (1) traditional statistics can be derived from a non-statistical basis by assuming data occurrences are accessed through a spin-up state (given two equally probable quantum states, spin-up and spin-down); (2) the probability of predicting a particular outcome is determined by the squaring of an underlying linear measure and is the result of decoherence (which occurs when a quantum system is observed); and (3) a natural measure of certainty (called the agreement) is based on one chance of guessing the right outcome and corresponds to the integrated squaring of Schroedinger's wave equation. Analogical modeling considers all possible combiantions of a given context of n variables, which is classical terms leads to an exponential explosion on the order of 2**n. This paper proposes a quantum computational solution to this exponentiality by applying a cycle of reversible quantum operators to all 2**n possibilities, thus reducing the time and space of analogical modeling to a polynomial order.

id: quant-ph/0008113
title: Quantum Bayes rule
authors: Ruediger Schack, Todd A. Brun, Carlton M. Caves
comments: REVTEX, 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 014305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008113
abstract: We state a quantum version of Bayes's rule for statistical inference and give a simple general derivation within the framework of generalized measurements. The rule can be applied to measurements on N copies of a system if the initial state of the N copies is exchangeable. As an illustration, we apply the rule to N qubits. Finally, we show that quantum state estimates derived via the principle of maximum entropy are fundamentally different from those obtained via the quantum Bayes rule.

id: quant-ph/0008114
title: Quantum computing and quantum measurement with mesoscopic Josephson junctions
authors: D.V. Averin
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures; to appear in the Speical Issue of "Forschritte der Physik"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008114
abstract: Recent experimental demonstrations of quantum coherence of the charge and flux states of Josephson junctions show that the quantum Josephson dynamics can be used to develop scalable quantum logic circuits. In this work, I review the basic concepts of Josephson tunneling and Josephson-junction qubits, and discuss two problems of this tunneling motivated by quantum computing applications. One is the theory of photon-assisted resonant flux tunneling in SQUID systems used to demonstrate quantum coherence of flux. Another is the problem of quantum measurement of charge with the SET electrometer. It is shown that the SET electrometer at the Coulomb blockade threshold is the quantum-limited detector with energy sensitivity reaching $\hbar/\sqrt{3}$ in the resonant-tunneling regime.

id: quant-ph/0008115
title: Dynamics of quantum entanglement
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Pawel Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 10 pages, Revtex, 10 figures, refined version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 65 012101 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008115
abstract: A model of discrete dynamics of entanglement of bipartite quantum state is considered. It involves a global unitary dynamics of the system and periodic actions of local bistochastic or decaying channel. For initially pure states the decay of entanglement is accompanied with an increase of von Neumann entropy of the system. We observe and discuss revivals of entanglement due to unitary interaction of both subsystems. For some mixed states having different marginal entropies of both subsystems (one of them larger than the global entropy and the other one one smaller) we find an asymmetry in speed of entanglement decay. The entanglement of these states decreases faster, if the depolarizing channel acts on the "classical" subsystem, characterized by smaller marginal entropy.

id: quant-ph/0008116
title: Numerical Constructions of Perturbation Series in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: IX Int. Colloquium on Numerical Analysis and Computer Science with Applications, Plovdiv, Bulgaria, August 12 - 17, 2000 (60 min. inv. talk)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008116
abstract: A few modified textbook Rayleigh-Schr\"{o}dinger perturbative representations of bound states are reviewed. They were all inspired by an adaptive re-split of the Hamiltonian, using nonstandard bases and the flexibility of normalization of the wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0008117
title: A unified (classical-quantum-statistical) formalism for continuous spectrum systems
authors: Mario Castagnino
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008117
abstract: A unified (classical-quantum-statistical) formalism for a system with continuous spectrum is introduced. For this kind of systems ergodicity behavior and the existence of microcanonical and canonical (KMS) equilibrium is proved. It is argued that the continuous spectrum condition is essential for the thermodynamical behavior

id: quant-ph/0008118
title: Applications of Integrated Magnetic Microtraps
authors: J. Reichel, W. H?nsel, P. Hommelhoff, T. W. H?nsch
comments: 10 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008118
abstract: Lithographically fabricated circuit patterns can provide magnetic guides and microtraps for cold neutral atoms. By combining several such structures on the same ceramic substrate, we have realized the first ``atom chips'' that permit complex manipulations of ultracold trapped atoms or de Broglie wavepackets. We show how to design magnetic potentials from simple conductor patterns and we describe an efficient trap loading procedure in detail. Applying the design guide, we describe some new microtrap potentials, including a trap which reaches the Lamb-Dicke regime for rubidium atoms in all three dimensions, and a rotatable Ioffe-Pritchard trap, which we also demonstrate experimentally. Finally, we demonstrate a device allowing independent linear positioning of two atomic clouds which are very tightly confined laterally. This device is well suited for the study of one-dimensional collisions.

id: quant-ph/0008119
title: Self-Consistency of Thermal Jump Trajectories
authors: Y.-T. Chough, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008119
abstract: It is problematic to interpret the quantum jumps of an atom interacting with thermal light in terms of counts at detectors monitoring the atom's inputs and outputs. As an alternative, we develop an interpretation based on a self-consistency argument. We include one mode of the thermal field in the system Hamiltonian and describe its interaction with the atom by an entangled quantum state while assuming that the other modes induce quantum jumps in the usual fashion. In the weak-coupling limit, the photon number expectation of the selected mode is also seen to execute quantum jumps, although more generally, for stronger coupling, Rabi oscillations are observed; the equilibrium photon number distribution is a Bose-Einstein distribution. Each mode may be viewed in isolation in a similar fashion, and summing over their weak-coupling jump rates returns the net jump rates for the atom assumed at the outset.

id: quant-ph/0008120
title: A finite-dimensional representation of the quantum angular momentum operator
authors: Rafael G. Campos, L.O. Pimentel
comments: Plain tex, 13 pages, no figures
journal: Nuovo Cimento B 116 (2001) pp 31-46
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008120
abstract: A useful finite-dimensional matrix representation of the derivative of periodic functions is obtained by using some elementary facts of trigonometric interpolation. This NxN matrix becomes a projection of the angular derivative into polynomial subspaces of finite dimension and it can be interpreted as a generator of discrete rotations associated to the z-component of the projection of the angular momentum operator in such subspaces, inheriting thus some properties of the continuum operator. The group associated to these discrete rotations is the cyclic group of order N. Since the square of the quantum angular momentum L^2 is associated to a partial differential boundary value problem in the angular variables $\theta$ and $\phi$ whose solution is given in terms of the spherical harmonics, we can project such a differential equation to obtain an eigenvalue matrix problem of finite dimension by extending to several variables a projection technique for solving numerically two point boundary value problems and using the matrix representation of the angular derivative found before. The eigenvalues of the matrix representing L^2 are found to have the exact form n(n+1), counting the degeneracy, and the eigenvectors are found to coincide exactly with the corresponding spherical harmonics evaluated at a certain set of points.

id: quant-ph/0008121
title: An Intutive Paragidm for Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 15 pages LaTeX2e sequal: quant-ph/9711013
journal: Physics Essays 5(2) 226-234 (1992)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008121
abstract: Use is made of a relativistic kinematic modulation effect to compliment imagery from Stochastic Electrodynamics to provide intuitive paradigms for Quantum Mechanics. Based on these paradigms, resolutions for epistemological problems vexing conventional interpretations of Quantum Mechanics are proposed and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0008122
title: Finite resolution measurement of the non-classical polarization statistics of entangled photon pairs
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures and 1 table, new figure to illustrate results, improved explanation of statistical analysis
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042106 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008122
abstract: By limiting the resolution of quantum measurements, the measurement induced changes of the quantum state can be reduced, permitting subsequent measurements of variables that do not commute with the initially measured property. It is then possible to experimentally determine correlations between non-commuting variables. The application of this method to the polarization statistics of entangled photon pairs reveals that negative conditional probabilities between non-orthogonal polarization components are responsible for the violation of Bell's inequalities. Such negative probabilities can also be observed in finite resolution measurements of the polarization of a single photon. The violation of Bell's inequalities therefore originates from local properties of the quantum statistics of single photon polarization.

id: quant-ph/0008123
title: Symmetry, Duality and Anholonomy of Point Interactions in One Dimension
authors: Taksu Cheon, Tamas Fulop, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 47 pages, 5 figures (with 7 EPS files); corrected typos
journal: Annals of Physics 294 (2001) 1-23
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008123
abstract: We analyze the spectral structure of the one dimensional quantum mechanical system with point interaction, which is known to be parametrized by the group U(2). Based on the classification of the interactions in terms of symmetries, we show, on a general ground, how the fermion-boson duality and the spectral anholonomy recently discovered can arise. A vital role is played by a hidden su(2) formed by a certain set of discrete transformations, which becomes a symmetry if the point interaction belongs to a distinguished U(1) subfamily in which all states are doubly degenerate. Within the U(1), there is a particular interaction which admits the interpretation of the system as a supersymmetric Witten model.

id: quant-ph/0008124
title: Quantum Complexity of Integration
authors: Erich Novak
comments: 13 pages, some minor corrections
journal: Journal of Complexity, 17 (2001), 2-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008124
abstract: It is known that quantum computers yield a speed-up for certain discrete problems. Here we want to know whether quantum computers are useful for continuous problems. We study the computation of the integral of functions from the classical Hoelder classes with d variables. The optimal orders for the complexity of deterministic and (general) randomized methods are known. We obtain the respective optimal orders for quantum algorithms and also for restricted Monte Carlo (only coin tossing instead of general random numbers). To summarize the results one can say that (1) there is an exponential speed-up of quantum algorithms over deterministic (classical) algorithms, if the smoothness is small; (2) there is a (roughly) quadratic speed-up of quantum algorithms over randomized classical methods, if the smoothness is small.

id: quant-ph/0008125
title: Solvable PT symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: Talk presented during the ``XXIII International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics" (Dubna, Russia, July 31 - August 5, 2000)
journal: Yad. Fiz. 65 (2002), 1182-1184 [transl. Physics of Atomic Nuclei 65 (2002) 1149-1151]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008125
abstract: Brief review is given of my recent results on solvable models within the so called PT symmetric version of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0008126
title: Quantum theory without Hilbert spaces
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 32 pages, Latex, 4 figures. Small changes in the revised version, comments and references added; essentially the version to appear in Found. Phys
journal: Found.Phys. 31 (2001) 1545
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008126
abstract: Quantum theory does not only predict probabilities, but also relative phases for any experiment, that involves measurements of an ensemble of systems at different moments of time. We argue, that any operational formulation of quantum theory needs an algebra of observables and an object that incorporates the information about relative phases and probabilities. The latter is the (de)coherence functional, introduced by the consistent histories approach to quantum theory. The acceptance of relative phases as a primitive ingredient of any quantum theory, liberates us from the need to use a Hilbert space and non-commutative observables. It is shown, that quantum phenomena are adequately described by a theory of relative phases and non-additive probabilities on the classical phase space. The only difference lies on the type of observables that correspond to sharp measurements. This class of theories does not suffer from the consequences of Bell's theorem (it is not a theory of Kolmogorov probabilities) and Kochen- Specker's theorem (it has distributive "logic"). We discuss its predictability properties, the meaning of the classical limit and attempt to see if it can be experimentally distinguished from standard quantum theory. Our construction is operational and statistical, in the spirit of Kopenhagen, but makes plausible the existence of a realist, geometric theory for individual quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0008127
title: Comment on: "A quantum approach to static games of complete information''
authors: S. C. Benjamin
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008127
abstract: Recently Marinatto and Weber introduced an interesting new scheme for quantizing games, and applied their scheme to the famous game 'Battle of the Sexes'. In this Comment we make two observations: (a) the overall quantization scheme is fundamentally very similar to a previous scheme proposed by Eisert et al., and (b) in contrast to a main claim of the paper, the quantum Battle of the Sexes game does not have a unique solution - a similar dilemma exists in both the classical and the quantum versions.

id: quant-ph/0008128
title: Quantum reference systems: reconciling locality with quantum mechanics
authors: Gyula Bene
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX, lecture in NATO Advanced Research Workshop on "Decoherence and its Implications in Quantum Computation and Information Transfer", 2000, Mykonos, Greece
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008128
abstract: The status of locality in quantum mechanics is analyzed from a nonstandard point of view. It is assumed that quantum states are relative, they depend on and are defined with respect to some bigger physical system which contains the former system as a subsystem. Hence, the bigger system acts as a reference system. It is shown that quantum mechanics can be reformulated in accordance with this new physical assumption. There is an important consequence of this dependence: states may not be comparable, i.e., they cannot be checked by suitable measurements simultaneously. This special circumstance is fully reflected mathematically by the theory. Especially, it is shown that certain joint probabilities (or the corresponding combined events) which play a vital role in any proof of Bell's theorem do not exist. The conclusion is that the principle of locality is fully valid in quantum mechanics, and one has to give up instead of locality an intuitively natural-looking feature of realism, namely, the comparability of existing states.

id: quant-ph/0008129
title: Quantum codes from cyclic codes over GF(4^m)
authors: Andrew Thangaraj, Steven McLaughlin
comments: 7 pages, 0 figures, submitted to IEEE transactions on information theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008129
abstract: We provide a construction for quantum codes (hermitian-self-orthogonal codes over GF(4)) starting from cyclic codes over GF(4^m). We also provide examples of these codes some of which meet the known bounds for quantum codes.

id: quant-ph/0008130
title: Infrared generation in low-dimensional semiconductor heterostructures via quantum coherence
authors: A. A. Belyanin, F. Capasso, V. V. Kocharovsky, Vl. V. Kocharovsky, M. O. Scully
comments: 4 pages, 1 Postscript figure, Revtex style. Replacement corrects a printing error in the authors field
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008130
abstract: A new scheme for infrared generation without population inversion between subbands in quantum-well and quantum-dot lasers is presented and documented by detailed calculations. The scheme is based on the simultaneous generation at three frequencies: optical lasing at the two interband transitions which take place simultaneously, in the same active region, and serve as the coherent drive for the IR field. This mechanism for frequency down-conversion does not rely upon any ad hoc assumptions of long-lived coherences in the semiconductor active medium. And it should work efficiently at room temperature with injection current pumping. For optimized waveguide and cavity parameters, the intrinsic efficiency of the down-conversion process can reach the limiting quantum value corresponding to one infrared photon per one optical photon. Due to the parametric nature of IR generation, the proposed inversionless scheme is especially promising for long-wavelength (far- infrared) operation.

id: quant-ph/0008131
title: Decoherence within a single atom
authors: Gyula Bene, Szabolcs Borsanyi
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, a further result is included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008131
abstract: An "almost diagonal" reduced density matrix (in coordinate representation) is usually a result of environment induced decoherence and is considered the sign of classical behavior. We point out that the proton of a ground state hydrogen atom can possess such a density matrix. We demonstrate on this example that an "almost diagonal" reduced density matrix may derive from an interaction with a low number of degrees of freedom (in our case with a single electron) which play the role of the environment. We also show that decoherence effects in our example can only be observed if the interaction with the measuring device is significantly faster than the interaction with the environment (the electron). In the opposite case, when the interaction with the environment is significant during the measurement process, coherence is restored. Finally, we propose a neutron scattering experiment on cold He atoms to observe decoherence which shows up as an additional contribution to the differential scattering cross section.

id: quant-ph/0008132
title: Coherent State Path Integrals without Resolutions of Unity
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: Found.Phys. 31 (2001) 57-67
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008132
abstract: From the very beginning, coherent state path integrals have always relied on a coherent state resolution of unity for their construction. By choosing an inadmissible fiducial vector, a set of ``coherent states'' spans the same space but loses its resolution of unity, and for that reason has been called a set of weak coherent states. Despite having no resolution of unity, it is nevertheless shown how the propagator in such a basis may admit a phase-space path integral representation in essentially the same form as if it had a resolution of unity. Our examples are toy models of similar situations that arise in current studies of quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0008133
title: Coherent oscillation in a linear quantum system coupled to a thermal bath
authors: N. F. Bell, R. F. Sawyer, R. R. Volkas
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex; minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008133
abstract: We consider the time development of the density matrix for a system coupled to a thermal bath, in models that go beyond the standard two-level systems through addition of an energy excitation degree of freedom and through the possibility of the replacement of the spin algebra by a more complex algebra. We find conditions under which increasing the coupling to the bath above a certain level decreases the rate of entropy production, and in which the limiting behavior is a dissipationless sinusoidal oscillation that could be interpreted as the synchronization of many modes of the uncoupled system.

id: quant-ph/0008134
title: The asymptotic entanglement cost of preparing a quantum state
authors: Patrick M. Hayden, Michal Horodecki, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34(35):6891-6898, 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0008134
abstract: We give a detailed proof of the conjecture that the asymptotic entanglement cost of preparing a bipartite state \rho is equal to the regularized entanglement of formation of \rho.

id: astro-ph/0008189
title: On a Probable Contribution of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Effect to Solving the Problem of Homogeneity of the Universe
authors: Yu.V. Dumin
comments: LaTeX2e, 4 pages, 1 eps figure, uses packages cospar, graphicx, fleqn. Report at COSPAR 2000, submitted to "Advances in Space Research"
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0008189
abstract: Evading formation of the domain walls in cosmological phase transitions is one of key problems to be solved for explanation of the observed large-scale homogeneity of the Universe. The previous attempts to get around this obstacle led to imposing severe observational constraints on the parameters of the fields involved. Aim of the present report is to show that yet another way to overcome the above problem is accounting for Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) effect. Namely, if the scalar (Higgs) field was presented by a single coherent quantum state at the initial instant of time, then its reduction during a phase transition at some later instant should be correlated even at distances exceeding the local cosmological horizon. Consideration of a simplest one-dimensional cosmological model with Z_2 Higgs field demonstrates that EPR correlations can substantially reduce the probability of spontaneous creation of the domain walls, and such effect seems to be even more promising in the cases of two- and three-dimensional geometry.

id: cond-mat/0008003
title: Correlated quantum measurement of a solid-state qubit
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 193407 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0008003
abstract: We propose a solid-state experiment to study the process of continuous quantum measurement of a qubit state. The experiment would verify that an individual qubit stays coherent during the process of measurement (in contrast to the gradual decoherence of the ensemble-averaged density matrix) thus confirming the possibility of the qubit purification by continuous measurement. The experiment can be realized using quantum dots, single-electron transistors, or SQUIDs.

id: cond-mat/0008058
title: Coherent population transfer in coupled semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Ulrich Hohenester, Giovanna Panzarini, Filippo Troiani, Elisa Molinari, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 4 pages, accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. v77, 1864 (2000).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0008058
abstract: We propose a solid-state implementation of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in two coupled semiconductor quantum dots. Proper combination of two pulsed laser fields allows the coherent carrier transfer between the two nanostructures without suffering significant losses due to environment coupling. By use of a general solution scheme for the carrier states in the double-dot structure, we identify the pertinent dot and laser parameters.

id: cond-mat/0008142
title: A simple variational approach to the quantum Frenkel-Kontorova model
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Chung-I Chou
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0008142
abstract: We present a simple and complete variational approach to the one-dimensional quantum Frenkel-Kontorova model. Dirac's time-dependent variational principle is adopted together with a Hatree-type many-body trial wavefunction for the atoms. The single-particle state is assumed to have the Jackiw-Kerman form. We obtain an effective classical Hamiltonian for the system which is simple enough for a complete numerical solution for the static ground state of the model. Numerical results show that our simple approach captures the essence of the quantum effects first observed in quantum Monte Carlo studies.

id: cond-mat/0008413
title: Counting statistics of photons produced by electronic shot noise
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, H. Schomerus
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure; equation (28) corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 86, 700 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0008413
abstract: A theory is presented for the photodetection statistics of radiation produced by current fluctuations in a phase-coherent conductor. Deviations are found from the Poisson statistics that would result from a classical current. For detection in a narrow frequency interval, the photocount distribution has the negative-binomial form of black-body radiation if this frequency interval is less than the mean current in the conductor. When electronic localization sets in, a different type of super-Poissonian photon statistics results.

id: cond-mat/0008461
title: Selective quantum evolution of a qubit state due to continuous measurement
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 15 pages (including 9 figures)
journal: Phys.Rev.B 63, 115403 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0008461
abstract: We consider a two-level quantum system (qubit) which is continuously measured by a detector. The information provided by the detector is taken into account to describe the evolution during a particular realization of measurement process. We discuss the Bayesian formalism for such ``selective'' evolution of an individual qubit and apply it to several solid-state setups. In particular, we show how to suppress the qubit decoherence using continuous measurement and the feedback loop.

id: gr-qc/0008026
title: Conversion of conventional gravitational-wave interferometers into QND interferometers by modifying their input and/or output optics
authors: H.J. Kimble, Yuri Levin, Andrey B. Matsko, Kip S. Thorne, Sergey P. Vyatchanin
comments: Submitted to Physical Review D; RevTeX manuscript with 16 figures; prints to 33 pages in Physical Review double column format. Minor revisions have been made in response to referee report
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 022002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0008026
abstract: The LIGO-II gravitational-wave interferometers (ca. 2006--2008) are designed to have sensitivities at about the standard quantum limit (SQL) near 100 Hz. This paper describes and analyzes possible designs for subsequent, LIGO-III interferometers that can beat the SQL. These designs are identical to a conventional broad-band interferometer (without signal recycling), except for new input and/or output optics. Three designs are analyzed: (i) a "squeezed-input interferometer" (conceived by Unruh based on earlier work of Caves) in which squeezed vacuum with frequency-dependent (FD) squeeze angle is injected into the interferometer's dark port; (ii) a "variational-output" interferometer (conceived in a different form by Vyatchanin, Matsko and Zubova), in which homodyne detection with FD homodyne phase is performed on the output light; and (iii) a "squeezed-variational interferometer" with squeezed input and FD-homodyne output. It is shown that the FD squeezed-input light can be produced by sending ordinary squeezed light through two successive Fabry-Perot filter cavities before injection into the interferometer, and FD-homodyne detection can be achieved by sending the output light through two filter cavities before ordinary homodyne detection. With anticipated technology and with laser powers comparable to that planned for LIGO-II, these interferometers can beat the amplitude SQL by factors in the range from 3 to 5, corresponding to event rate increases between ~30 and ~100 over the rate for a SQL-limited interferometer.

id: gr-qc/0008033
title: Relativistic phase shifts for Dirac particles interacting with weak gravitational fields in matter-wave interferometers
authors: Christian J. Bord, Jean-Claude Houard, Alain Karasiewicz
comments: 32 pages, LaTex, needs rotating and lscape usepackages, to appear in C. L\"ammerzahl, C.W.F. Everitt, F.W. Hehl (eds.): ``Gyros, Clocks, and Interferometers: Testing Relativistic Gravity in Space'', Springer-Verlag, Berlin 2000
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 562 (2001) 403-438
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0008033
abstract: We present a second-quantized field theory of massive spin one-half particles or antiparticles in the presence of a weak gravitational field treated as a spin two external field in a flat Minkowski background. We solve the difficulties which arise from the derivative coupling and we are able to introduce an interaction picture. We derive expressions for the scattering amplitude and for the outgoing spinor to first-order. In several appendices, the link with the canonical approach in General Relativity is established and a generalized stationary phase method is used to calculate the outgoing spinor. We show how our expressions can be used to calculate and discuss phase shifts in the context of matter-wave interferometry (especially atom or antiatom interferometry). In this way, many effects are introduced in a unified relativistic framework, including spin-gravitation terms: gravitational red shift, Thomas precession, Sagnac effect, spin-rotation effect, orbital and spin Lense-Thirring effects, de Sitter geodetic precession and finally the effect of gravitational waves. A new analogy with the electromagnetic interaction is pointed out.

id: gr-qc/0008045
title: Generalized Second Law of Black Hole Thermodynamics and Quantum Information Theory
authors: A. Hosoya, A. Carlini, T. Shimomura
comments: 5 pages, RevTex, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys.Rev. D63 (2001) 104008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0008045
abstract: We propose a quantum version of a gedanken experiment which supports the generalized second law of black hole thermodynamics. A quantum measurement of particles in the region outside of the event horizon decreases the entropy of the outside matter due to the entanglement of the inside and outside particle states. This decrease is compensated, however, by the increase in the detector entropy. If the detector is conditionally dropped into the black hole depending on the experimental outcome, the decrease of the matter entropy is more than compensated by the increase of the black hole entropy via the increase of the black hole mass which is ultimately attributed to the work done by the measurement.

id: gr-qc/0008046
title: Trajectories for the Wave Function of the Universe from a Simple Detector Model
authors: J. J. Halliwell
comments: 37 pages, plain Tex. Second draft. Substantial revisions
journal: Phys.Rev. D64 (2001) 044008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0008046
abstract: Inspired by Mott's (1929) analysis of particle tracks in a cloud chamber, we consider a simple model for quantum cosmology which includes, in the total Hamiltonian, model detectors registering whether or not the system, at any stage in its entire history, passes through a series of regions in configuration space. We thus derive a variety of well-defined formulas for the probabilities for trajectories associated with the solutions to the Wheeler-DeWitt equation. The probability distribution is peaked about classical trajectories in configuration space. The ``measured'' wave functions still satisfy the Wheeler-DeWitt equation, except for small corrections due to the disturbance of the measuring device. With modified boundary conditions, the measurement amplitudes essentially agree with an earlier result of Hartle derived on rather different grounds. In the special case where the system is a collection of harmonic oscillators, the interpretation of the results is aided by the introduction of ``timeless'' coherent states -- eigenstates of the Hamiltonian which are concentrated about entire classical trajectories.

id: gr-qc/0008049
title: Quantum Computation toward Quantum Gravity
authors: P. A. Zizzi
comments: 11 pages. Contributed to XIII International Congress on Mathematical Physics (ICMP 2000), London, England, 17-22 Jul 2000. Typos corrected. Accepted for publication in General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 33 (2001) 1305-1318
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0008049
abstract: The aim of this paper is to enlight the emerging relevance of Quantum Information Theory in the field of Quantum Gravity. As it was suggested by J. A. Wheeler, information theory must play a relevant role in understanding the foundations of Quantum Mechanics (the "It from bit" proposal). Here we suggest that quantum information must play a relevant role in Quantum Gravity (the "It from qubit" proposal). The conjecture is that Quantum Gravity, the theory which will reconcile Quantum Mechanics with General Relativity, can be formulated in terms of quantum bits of information (qubits) stored in space at the Planck scale. This conjecture is based on the following arguments: a) The holographic principle, b) The loop quantum gravity approach and spin networks, c) Quantum geometry and black hole entropy. Here we present the quantum version of the holographic principle by considering each pixel of area of an event horizon as a qubit. This is possible if the horizon is pierced by spin networks' edges of spin 1\2, in the superposed state of spin "up" and spin "down".

id: hep-th/0008037
title: Coarse graining and renormalization
authors: Ji-Feng Yang
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, no figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0008037
abstract: Formulating the QFT's as coarse grained 'low' energy sectors of a postulated complete quantum theory of everything with the 'high' energy modes integrated out or 'clustering' into 'low' energy objects, we can evaluate the Feynman amplitudes by solving a series of natural differential equations which automatically dissolves the necessity of infinity subtraction and the associated subtleties. This new strategy has direct implications to the scheme dependence problem.

id: hep-th/0008171
title: Fractal distribution function and fractal-deformed Heisenberg algebras
authors: Wellington da Cruz
comments: 7pages, latex, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0008171
abstract: We consider the concept of fractons, i.e. particles or quasiparticles which obey specific fractal distribution function and for each universal class h of particles we obtain a fractal-deformed Heisenberg algebra. This one takes into account the braid group structure of these objects which live in two-dimensional multiply connected space.

id: hep-th/0008182
title: A New Expansion of the Heisenberg Equation of Motion with Projection Operator
authors: T. Koide, M. Maruyama
comments: 16 pages, revtex, no figures, To appear in Prog.Theor.Phys
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys. 104 (2000) 575-594
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0008182
abstract: We derive a new expansion of the Heisenberg equation of motion based on the projection operator method proposed by Shibata, Hashitsume and Shing\=u. In their projection operator method, a certain restriction is imposed on the initial state. As a result, one cannot prepare arbitrary initial states, for example a coherent state, to calculate the time development of quantum systems. In this paper, we generalize the projection operator method by relaxing this restriction. We explain our method in the case of a Hamiltonian both with and without explicit time dependence. Furthermore, we apply it to an exactly solvable model called the damped harmonic oscillator model and confirm the validity of our method.

id: hep-th/0008222
title: Fractal statistics, fractal index and fractons
authors: Wellington da Cruz
comments: Latex, 7 pages, references update, To appear Proceedings Workshop on Geometrical Aspects Of Quantum Fields, 17 to 22 April 2000, State University of Londrina (Londrina, Parana, Brazil)
journal: Geometrical Aspects of Quantum Fields, ed. by, A. A. Bytsenko, A. E. Gol\c{c}alves and B. M. Pimentel (World Scientific, 2001). pp, 73-79)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0008222
abstract: The concept of fractal index is introduced in connection with the idea of universal class $h$ of particles or quasiparticles, termed fractons, which obey fractal statistics. We show the relation between fractons and conformal field theory(CFT)-quasiparticles taking into account the central charge $c[\nu]$ and the particle-hole duality $\nu\longleftrightarrow\frac{1}{\nu}$, for integer-value $\nu$ of the statistical parameter. The Hausdorff dimension $h$ which labelled the universal classes of particles and the conformal anomaly are therefore related. We also establish a connection between Rogers dilogarithm function, Farey series of rational numbers and the Hausdorff dimension.

id: math-ph/0008020
title: sl(2, C) as a complex Lie algebra and the associated non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real eigenvalues
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX, amssym,14 pages, no figures, to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett. A273 (2000) 285-292
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0008020
abstract: The powerful group theoretical formalism of potential algebras is extended to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real eigenvalues by complexifying so(2,1), thereby getting the complex algebra sl(2,\C) or $A_1$. This leads to new types of both PT-symmetric and non-PT-symmetric Hamiltonians.

id: math-ph/0008021
title: General energy bounds for systems of bosons with soft cores
authors: Richard L. Hall
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 052510 (2000)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0008021
abstract: We study a bound system of N identical bosons interacting by model pair potentials of the form V(r) = A sgn(p)r^p + B/r^2, A > 0, B >= 0. By using a variational trial function and the `equivalent 2-body method', we find explicit upper and lower bound formulas for the N-particle ground-state energy in arbitrary spatial dimensions d > 2 for the two cases p = 2 and p = -1. It is demonstrated that the upper bound can be systematically improved with the aid of a special large-N limit in collective field theory.

id: math-ph/0008031
title: Geometric phase related to point-interaction transport on a magnetic Lobachevsky plane
authors: S.A. Albeverio, P. Exner, V.A. Geyler
comments: LaTeX 2e, 10 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 55 (2001), 9-16
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0008031
abstract: We consider a charged quantum particle living in the Lobachevsky plane and interacting with a homogeneous magnetic field perpendicular to the plane and a point interaction which is transported adiabatically along a closed loop C in the plane. We show that the bound-state eigenfunction acquires at that the Berry phase equal to 2\pi times the number of the flux quanta through the area encircled by C.

id: math/0008039
title: State transitions as morphisms for complete lattices
authors: Bob Coecke, Isar Stubbe
comments: 9 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical physics 39(3), 605--614 (2000)
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0008039
abstract: We enlarge the hom-sets of categories of complete lattices by introducing `state transitions' as generalized morphisms. The obtained category will then be compared with a functorial quantaloidal enrichment and a contextual quantaloidal enrichment that uses a specific concretization in the category of sets and partially defined maps ($Parset$).

id: math/0008164
title: On Bures distance over standard form vN-algebras
authors: Peter. M. Alberti, Gregor Peltri
comments: AMSLaTeX, 27 pages, expanded version
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0008164
abstract: In case of a standard form vN-algebra, the Bures distance is the natural distance between the fibres of implementing vectors at normal positive linear forms. Thereby, it is well-known that to each two normal positive linear forms implementing vectors exist such that the Bures distance is attained by the metric distance of the implementing vectors in question. We discuss to which extend this can remain true if a vector in one of the fibres is considered as fixed. For each nonfinite algebra, classes of counterexamples are given and situations are analyzed where the latter type of result must fail. In the course of the paper, an account of those facts and notions is given, which can be taken as a useful minimum of basic C^*-algebraic tools needed in order to efficiently develop the fundamentals of Bures geometry over standard form vN-algebras.

id: nlin/0008031
title: Tunneling and Chaos
authors: Steven Tomsovic
comments: Review article for Nobel Symposium entitled `Quantum Chaos Y2K', no figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0008031
abstract: Over the preceeding twenty years, the role of underlying classical dynamics in quantum mechanical tunneling has received considerable attention. A number of new tunneling phenomena have been uncovered that have been directly linked to the set of dynamical possibilities arising in simple systems that contain at least some chaotic motion. These tunneling phenomena can be identified by their novel $\hbar$-dependencies and/or statistical behaviors. We summarize a sampling of these phenomena and mention some applications.

id: physics/0008019
title: Four-wave mixing at maximum coherence and eliminated Doppler broadening controlled with the driving fields
authors: A. K. Popov, Alexander S. Bayev, Thomas F. George, Vladimir M. Shalaev
comments: LaTeX, 11 pages including 8 figures, to be published in European Physics Journal D: EPJdirect (submited June 03, 2000)
journal: EPJdirect D1 (2000) 1-12, http://link.springer.de/link/service/journals/10105/tocs/t0002d.htm
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0008019
abstract: New feasibity of coherent quantum control of four-wave mixing processes in a resonant Doppler-broadened medium are studied. We propose a technique which enables one to enhance the quantum efficiency of nonlinear optical conversion. At the same time, it allows one to decrease the required intensities of the fundamental beams compared to those necessary in the approach based on coherent population trapping. The major outcomes of the analysis are illustrated with numerical simulation addressed within a practical medium.

id: physics/0008021
title: Ienversionless gain in an optically-dense resonant Doppler-broadened medium
authors: A. K. Popov, S. A. Myslivets, Thomas F. George
comments: 7 pages, 12 eps figures. Video/audio clips of the related virtual experiments are available on this http URL
journal: Optics Express v.7, No3, 148 (2000), http://epubs.osa.org/oearchive/source/22947.htm
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0008021
abstract: Resonant nonlinear-optical interference processes in four-level Doppler-broadened media are studied. Specific features of amplification and optical switching of short-wavelength radiation in a strongly-absorbing resonant gas under coherent quantum control with two longer wavelength radiations, are investigated. The major outcomes are illustrated with virtual experiments aimed at inversionless short-wavelength amplification, which also address deficiencies in this regard in recent experiments. With numerical simulations related to the proposed experiment in optically-dense sodium dimer vapor, we show optimal condition for optical switching and the expected gain of the probe radiation, which is above the oscillation threshold.

