id: quant-ph/0010001
title: Quantum coherence and control in one- and two-photon optical systems
authors: Andrew J. Berglund
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures, corrected top/bottom margins
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010001
abstract: We investigate coherence in one- and two-photon optical systems, both theoretically and experimentally. In the first case, we develop the density operator representing a single photon state subjected to a non-dissipative coupling between observed (polarization) and unobserved (frequency) degrees of freedom. We show that an implementation of ``bang-bang'' quantum control protects photon polarization information from certain types of decoherence. In the second case, we investigate the existence of a "decoherence-free" subspace of the Hilbert space of two-photon polarization states under the action of a similar coupling. The density operator representation is developed analytically and solutions are obtained numerically. NOTE: This manuscript is taken from the author's undergraduate thesis (A.B. Dartmouth College, June 2000, advised by Dr. Walter E. Lawrence), under the supervision of Dr. Paul G. Kwiat.

id: quant-ph/0010002
title: Quantum Computation Relative to Oracles
authors: Christino Tamon, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by Christino Tamon and Tomoyuki Yamakami because of errors of the main theorems. An erratum appeared in the Proceedings of the UMC 2000 Conference published by Springer
journal: Proceedings of the UMC 2000 Conference
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010002
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by Christino Tamon and Tomoyuki Yamakami because of errors of the main theorems. An erratum appeared in the Proceedings of the UMC 2000 Conference published by Springer.

id: quant-ph/0010003
title: Phase-space picture of resonance creation and avoided crossings
authors: T. Timberlake, L. E. Reichl
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010003
abstract: Complex coordinate scaling (CCS) is used to calculate resonance eigenvalues and eigenstates for a system consisting of an inverted Gaussian potential and a monochromatic driving field. Floquet eigenvalues and Husimi distributions of resonance eigenfunctions are calculated using two different versions of CCS. The number of resonance states in this system increases as the strength of the driving field is increased, indicating that this system might have increased stability against ionization when the field strength is very high. We find that the newly created resonance states are scarred on unstable periodic orbits of the classical motion. The behavior of these periodic orbits as the field strength is increased may explain why there are more resonance states at high field strengths than at low field strengths. Close examination of an avoided crossing between resonance states shows that this type of avoided crossing does not delocalize the resonance states, although it may lead to interesting effects at certain field strengths.

id: quant-ph/0010004
title: Characterising a universal cloning machine by maximum-likelihood estimation
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 022106 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010004
abstract: We apply a general method for the estimation of completely positive maps to the 1-to-2 universal covariant cloning machine. The method is based on the maximum-likelihood principle, and makes use of random input states, along with random projective measurements on the output clones. The downhill simplex algorithm is applied for the maximisation of the likelihood functional.

id: quant-ph/0010005
title: Exponential Gain in Quantum Computing of Quantum Chaos and Localization
authors: B. Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v. 86 (2001) p. 2890
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010005
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm which simulates the quantum kicked rotator model exponentially faster than classical algorithms. This shows that important physical problems of quantum chaos, localization and Anderson transition can be modelled efficiently on a quantum computer. We also show that a similar algorithm simulates efficiently classical chaos in certain area-preserving maps.

id: quant-ph/0010006
title: Control of squeezed light pulse spectrum in the Kerr medium with an inertial nonlinearity
authors: A.S. Chirkin, F. Popescu
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX, style file included, 1 .eps figure. Talk given at QCM & C 2000 (Capri, Italy). To appear in "Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing 3" (Kluwer Acad. Plen.Publ. NY). New interpretations of previous e-prints
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010006
abstract: The consistent quantum theory of self-phase modulation (SPM) and cross-phase modulation (XPM) for ultrashort light pulses (USP) in medium with electronic Kerr-nonlinearity are developed. The approach makes use of momentum operator of electrical field which takes account of the inertial behaviour of the nonlinearity. The spectrum of quantum fluctuations of squeezed-quadrature component as a function of response time of nonlinearity and values of nonlinear phase shifts due to the SPM and XPM effects, is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0010007
title: Phase Mapping of Remote Clocks Using Quantum Entanglement
authors: M.S. Shahriar
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010007
abstract: Recently, we have shown how the phase of an electromagnetic field can be determined by measuring the population of either of the two states of a two-level atomic system excited by this field, via the so-called Bloch-Siegert oscillation resulting from the interference between the co- and counter-rotating excitations. Here, we show how a degenerate entanglement, created without transmitting any timing signal, can be used to teleport this phase information. This phase-teleportation process may be applied to achieve absolute phase-mapping of remote clocks.

id: quant-ph/0010008
title: ".. I didn't reflect much on what I was doing.." How Planck discovered his radiation formula
authors: Domenico Giulini, Norbert Straumann
comments: Text in german; LeTeX 2epsilon, 7 pages, no figures; to be published in Physikalische Blaetter, Dec. 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010008
abstract: On December 14. 1900, Max Planck communicated his derivation of his radiation formula, which he later called ``an act of desperation''. This date is widely recognized as birthday of quantum theory. For Planck it meant the end of his carefully planned and ambitious research project, in which he wanted to establish the second law of thermodynamics as strictly deterministic law for systems of matter and electromagnetic radiation in interaction. He knew he could not succeed within classical mechanics, but had the somewhat strange hope that the inclusion of Maxwell's electrodynamics would change the situation. Later he always disagreed with Einstein's light-quantum hypothesis, because it implied a renunciation from Maxwell's theory, which in Germany gained full recognition and acceptance as late as the 1890's, mainly through the theoretical and experimental work of Heinrich Hertz.

id: quant-ph/0010009
title: Observation of Ultraslow Group Velocity of Light in a Solid
authors: A.V. Turukhin, V.S. Sudarshanam, M. S. Shahriar, J. A. Musser, P.R. Hemmer
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010009
abstract: We report ultraslow group velocities of light in a solid. Light speeds as slow as 45 m/s were observed, corresponding to a group delay of 66 ms in a 3-mm thick crystal. Reduction of the group velocity is accomplished by using a sharp spectral feature in absorption and dispersion, produced by a Raman excited spin coherence in an optically dense Pr doped Y2SiO5 crystal.

id: quant-ph/0010010
title: Deduction of Planck's Formula from Multiphoton States
authors: Luis J. Boya, Ian M. Duck, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 5 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010010
abstract: We obtain the black body radiation formula of Planck by considering independent contributions of multiphoton states

id: quant-ph/0010011
title: Environment-Induced Decoherence and the Transition From Quantum to Classical
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: 80 pages, 7 figures included, Lectures given by both authors at the 72nd Les Houches Summer School on "Coherent Matter Waves", July-August 1999
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010011
abstract: We study dynamics of quantum open systems, paying special attention to those aspects of their evolution which are relevant to the transition from quantum to classical. We begin with a discussion of the conditional dynamics of simple systems. The resulting models are straightforward but suffice to illustrate basic physical ideas behind quantum measurements and decoherence. To discuss decoherence and environment-induced superselection einselection in a more general setting, we sketch perturbative as well as exact derivations of several master equations valid for various systems. Using these equations we study einselection employing the general strategy of the predictability sieve. Assumptions that are usually made in the discussion of decoherence are critically reexamined along with the ``standard lore'' to which they lead. Restoration of quantum-classical correspondence in systems that are classically chaotic is discussed. The dynamical second law -it is shown- can be traced to the same phenomena that allow for the restoration of the correspondence principle in decohering chaotic systems (where it is otherwise lost on a very short time-scale). Quantum error correction is discussed as an example of an anti-decoherence strategy. Implications of decoherence and einselection for the interpretation of quantum theory are briefly pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0010012
title: Entanglement vs. Noncommutativity in Teleportation
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Anirban Roy, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 5 pages, Latex, rewritten completely
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010012
abstract: We provide an alternative simple proof of the necessity of entanglement in quantum teleportation by using the no-disentanglement theorem. We show that this is true even when the state to be teleported is known to be among two noncommuting qubits. We further show that to teleport any set of commuting qubits, it is sufficient to have a classically correlated channel. Using this result we provide a simple proof of the fact that any set of bipartite entangled states can be exactly disentangled if the single particle density matrices of any one party commute.

id: quant-ph/0010013
title: Geometry and Product States
authors: Robert B. Lockhart, Michael J. Steiner, Karl Gerlach
comments: 
journal: Quantum Info. and Comp. Vol 2, #5, p. 333-347 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010013
abstract: As separable states are a convex combination of product states, the geometry of the manifold of product states is studied. Prior results by Sanpera, Vidal and Tarrach are extended. Furthermore, it is proven that states in the set tangent to the manifold of product states, at the maximally mixed state are separable; the set normal constains, among others, all maximally entangled states. A canonical decomposition is given. A surprising result is that for the case of two particles, the closest product state to the maximally entangled state is the maximally mixed state. An algorithm is provided to find the closest product state.

id: quant-ph/0010014
title: Feynman Clocks, Casual Networks, and the Origin of Hierarchical 'Arrows of Time' in Complex Systems from the Big Bang to the Brain
authors: Scott M. Hitchcock
comments: 21 pages, corrected equations, revised content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010014
abstract: A theory of 'time' as a form of 'information' is proposed. New tools such as Feynman Clocks, Collective Excitation Networks, Sequential Excitation Networks, Plateaus of Complexity, and Causal Networks are used to unify previously separate 'arrows of time'.

id: quant-ph/0010015
title: q-deformed dynamics and Josephson junction
authors: Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: LaTeX 9 pages, submitted Mod. Phys. Lett. B, e-mail: rrai@lycos.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010015
abstract: We define a generalized rate equation for an observable in quantum mechanics, that involves a parameter q and whose limit $q\to 1$ gives the standard Heisenberg equation. The generalized rate equation is used to study dynamics of current biased Josephson junction. It is observed that this toy model incorporates diffraction like effects in the critical current. Physical interpretation for q is provided which is also shown to be q-deformation parameter.

id: quant-ph/0010016
title: A Mach-Zehnder Interferometer for a Two-Photon Wave Packet
authors: Luiz Carlos Ryff, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: Submmited for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010016
abstract: We propose an experiment that permits observation of the de Broglie two-photon wave packet behavior for a pair of photons, using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. It is based on the use of pulsed lasers to generate pairs of photons via spontaneous parametric down-conversion and the post-selection of events. It differs from previous realizations by the use of a third time-correlated photon to engineer the state of the photons. The same technique can give us which-path information via an ``interaction-free'' experiment and can be used in other experiments on the foundations of quantum mechanics related to wave-particle duality and to nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0010017
title: Quantum Coherence in a Single Ion due to strong Excitation of a metastable Transition
authors: J. von Zanthier, C. Skornia, G. S. Agarwal, H. Walther
comments: 6 figures. accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 013816 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010017
abstract: We consider pump-probe spectroscopy of a single ion with a highly metastable (probe) clock transition which is monitored by using the quantum jump technique. For a weak clock laser we obtain the well known Autler-Townes splitting. For stronger powers of the clock laser we demonstrate the transition to a new regime. The two regimes are distinguished by the transition of two complex eigenvalues to purely imaginary ones which can be very different in magnitude. The transition is controlled by the power of the clock laser. For pump on resonance we present simple analytical expressions for various linewidths and line positions.

id: quant-ph/0010018
title: Number Partitioning on a Quantum Computer
authors: H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, K. De Raedt, S. Miyashita
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, see also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010018
abstract: We present an algorithm to compute the number of solutions of the (constrained) number partitioning problem. A concrete implementation of the algorithm on an Ising-type quantum computer is given.

id: quant-ph/0010019
title: Absolute frequency measurement of the In$^{+}$ clock transition with a mode-locked laser
authors: J. von Zanthier, Th. Becker, M. Eichenseer, A. Yu. Nevsky, Ch. Schwedes, E. Peik, H. Walther, R. Holzwarth, J. Reichert, Th. Udem, T. W. H?nsch, P. V. Pokasov, M. N. Skvortsov, S. N. Bagayev
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures. accepted for publication in Opt. Lett
journal: Opt. Lett. Vol. 25, No. 23, 1729 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010019
abstract: The absolute frequency of the In$^{+}$ $5s^{2 1}S_{0}$ - $5s5p^{3}P_{0}$ clock transition at 237 nm was measured with an accuracy of 1.8 parts in $10^{13}$. Using a phase-coherent frequency chain, we compared the $^{1}S_{0}$ - $^{3}P_{0}$ transition with a methane-stabilized He-Ne laser at 3.39 $\mu$m which was calibrated against an atomic cesium fountain clock. A frequency gap of 37 THz at the fourth harmonic of the He-Ne standard was bridged by a frequency comb generated by a mode-locked femtosecond laser. The frequency of the In$^{+}$ clock transition was found to be $1 267 402 452 899.92 (0.23)$ kHz, the accuracy being limited by the uncertainty of the He-Ne laser reference. This represents an improvement in accuracy of more than 2 orders of magnitude on previous measurements of the line and now stands as the most accurate measurement of an optical transition in a single ion.

id: quant-ph/0010020
title: Quantum trajectories, real, surreal or an approximation to a deeper process?
authors: B. J. Hiley, R.E Callaghan, O. Maroney
comments: PDF, 44 pages; Replacement with LaTeX source, 32 pages, 9 figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010020
abstract: The proposal that the one-parameter solutions of the real part of the Schrodinger equation (quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation) can be regarded as `quantum particle trajectories' has received considerable attention recently. Opinions as to their significance differ. Some argue that they do play a fundamental role as actual particle trajectories, others regard them as mere metaphysical appendages without any physical significance. Recent work has claimed that in some cases the Bohm approach gives results that disagree with those obtained from standard quantum mechanics and, in consequence, with experiment. Furthermore it is claimed that these trajectories have such unacceptable properties that they can only be considered as `surreal'. We re-examine these questions and show that the specific objections raised by Englert, Scully, Sussmann and Walther cannot be sustained. We also argue that contrary to their negative view, these trajectories can provide a deeper insight into quantum processes.

id: quant-ph/0010021
title: Finding Solutions to NP Problems: Philosophical Difference Between Quantum and Evolutionary Search Algorithms
authors: G. W. Greenwood
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Congress on Evolutionary Computation 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010021
abstract: There is no known polynomial-time algorithm that can solve an NP problem. Evolutionary search has been shown to be a viable method of finding acceptable solutions within a reasonable time period. Recently quantum computers have surfaced as another alternative method. But these two methods use radically different philosophies for solving NP problems even though both search methods are non-deterministic. This paper uses instances of {\bf SAT}, {\bf 3SAT} and {\bf TSP} to describe how these two methods differ in their approach to solving NP problems.

id: quant-ph/0010022
title: Information and noise in photon entanglement
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the Quantum Information Technology conference QIT4 held November 29th to 30th 2000 near Tokyo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010022
abstract: By using finite resolution measurements it is possible to simultaneously obtain noisy information on two non-commuting polarization components of a single photon. This method can be applied to a pair of entangled photons with polarization statistics that violate Bell's inequalities. The theoretically predicted results show that the non-classical nature of entanglement arises from negative joint probabilities for the non-commuting polarization components. These negative probabilities allow a "disentanglement" of the statistics, providing new insights into the non-classical properties of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0010023
title: Macroscopic Local Realism Incompatible with Quantum Mechanics: Failure of Local Realism where Measurements give Macroscopic Uncertainties
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 9 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett, {\bf 84}, 2765 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010023
abstract: We show that quantum mechanics predicts a contradiction with local hidden variable theories for photon number measurements which have limited resolving power, to the point of imposing an uncertainty in the photon number result which is macroscopic in absolute terms. We show how this can be interpreted as a failure of a new premise, macroscopic local realism.

id: quant-ph/0010024
title: Contradiction of Quantum Mechanics with Local Hidden Variables for Continuous Variable Quadrature Phase Amplitude Measurements
authors: A. Gilchrist, P. Deuar, M. D. Reid
comments: 9 pages,4 figures, previously published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 80},3169 (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010024
abstract: We demonstrate a contradiction of quantum mechanics with local hidden variable theories for continuous variable quadrature phase amplitude (``position'' and ``momentum'') measurements, by way of a violation of a Bell inequality. For any quantum state, this contradiction is lost for situations where the quadrature phase amplitude results are always macroscopically distinct. We show that for optical realisations of this experiment, where one uses homodyne detection techniques to perform the quadrature phase amplitude measurement, one has an amplification prior to detection, so that macroscopic fields are incident on photodiode detectors. The high efficiencies of such detectors may open a way for a loophole-free test of local hidden variable theories.

id: quant-ph/0010025
title: Image and Coherence Transfer in the Stimulated Down-conversion Process
authors: P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. Padua, C. H. Monken
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 60, 5074 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010025
abstract: The intensity transverse profile of the light produced in the process of stimulated down-conversion is derived. A quantum-mechanical treatment is used. We show that the angular spectrum of the pump laser can be transferred to the stimulated down-converted beam, so that images can also be transferred from the pump to the down-converted beam. We also show that the transfer can occur from the stimulating beam to the down-converted one. Finally, we study the process of diffraction through an arbitrarily shaped screen. For the special case of a double-slit, the interference pattern is explicitly obtained. The visibility for the spontaneous emitted light is in accordance with the van Cittert - Zernike theorem for incoherent light, while the visibility for the stimulated emitted light is unity. The overall visibility is in accordance with previous experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0010026
title: Superluminal Phenomena and the Quantum Preferred Frame
authors: Jakub Rembielinski
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX 3.1, one sentence modified, references updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010026
abstract: Motivated by a number of recent experiments, we discuss in this paper a speculative but physically admissible form and solutions of effective Maxwell-like equations describing propagation of electromagnetic field in a medium which ``feels'' a quantum preferred frame.

id: quant-ph/0010027
title: Time, what is it? Dynamical Properties of Time
authors: V.P. Oleinik, Yu.C. Borimsky, Yu.D. Arepjev
comments: pdf, 12 pages, Reported at the Fifth International Conference "Material Science and Material Properties for Infrared Optoelectronics" (22-24 May 2000, Kiev, Ukraine)
journal: Physical Vacuum and Nature. Oleinik V.P., Borimsky Ju.C., Arepjev Ju.D., 5, 65-82 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010027
abstract: The phenomenon of local dynamical inhomogeneity of time is predicted, which implies that the course of time along the trajectory of motion of a particle in the inertial reference frames moving relative to each other depends on the state of motion of the particle under the influence of a force field. As is seen from the results obtained, the ability to influence the course of time represents one of the most fundamental properties of any material system intrinsically inherent in it by the very nature of things, which manifests itself when the system interacts with force fields. The inferences of the paper are not based on the use of any hypotheses and strictly follow from relativistic equations of motion. The dependence of the course of time upon the behaviour of physical system is, thus, a direct consequence of causality principle, relativity principle and the pseudoeuclidity of space-time. The results obtained confirm the Kozyrev hypothesis that time has physical properties and open up radically new opportunities for the efficient control of physical processes. It is demonstrated with point particle that the change in the course of time results in the appearance of an additional force acting on the particle. A general conclusion is drawn on the basis of the theory advanced that relativistic equations of motion for any kind of matter contain information about the physical properties of time, which are, thus, of dynamical nature.

id: quant-ph/0010028
title: A New Formulation of Grover's Algorithm
authors: Michael Stay
comments: Withdrawn; replaced by longer, more detailed paper quant-ph/0010065
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010028
abstract: Withdrawn; replaced by longer, more detailed paper quant-ph/0010065.

id: quant-ph/0010029
title: The importance of quantum decoherence in brain processes
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev, E. on Oct 6, 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010029
abstract: It is shown how environmental decoherence plays an essential and constructive role in a quantum mechanical theory of brain process that has significant explanatory power.

id: quant-ph/0010030
title: An extension of "Popper's experiment" can test interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: R. Plaga
comments: 15 pages, Latex, 3 eps figures, accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics Letters
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 13,461 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010030
abstract: Karl Popper proposed a way to test whether a proposed relation of a quantum-mechanical state to perceived reality in the Copenhagen interpretation (CI) of quantum mechanics - namely that the state of a particle is merely an expression of ``what is known'' about the system - is in agreement with all experimental facts. A conceptual flaw in Popper's proposal is identified and an improved version of his experiment (called ``Extension step 1'') - which fully serves its original purpose - is suggested. The main purpose of this paper is to suggest to perform this experiment. The results of this experiment predicted under the alternative assumptions that the CI - together with the above connection of the state function with reality - or the ``many-worlds'' interpretation (MWI) is correct are shown to be identical. Only after a further modification (called ``Extension step 2'') - the use of an ion isolated from the macroscopic environment as particle detector - the predictions using the respective interpretations become qualitatively different.

id: quant-ph/0010031
title: Complete controllability of quantum systems
authors: S. G. Schirmer, H. Fu, A. I. Solomon
comments: 8 pages, expanded and revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 063410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010031
abstract: Sufficient conditions for complete controllability of $N$-level quantum systems subject to a single control pulse that addresses multiple allowed transitions concurrently are established. The results are applied in particular to Morse and harmonic-oscillator systems, as well as some systems with degenerate energy levels. Morse and harmonic oscillators serve as models for molecular bonds, and the standard control approach of using a sequence of frequency-selective pulses to address a single transition at a time is either not applicable or only of limited utility for such systems.

id: quant-ph/0010032
title: Limits of control for quantum systems: kinematical bounds on the optimization of observables and the question of dynamical realizability
authors: S. G. Schirmer, J. V. Leahy
comments: 5 pages, orginal June 30, 2000, revised September 28, 2000
journal: Phys.Rev.A63:025403,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010032
abstract: In this paper we investigate the limits of control for mixed-state quantum systems. The constraint of unitary evolution for non-dissipative quantum systems imposes kinematical bounds on the optimization of arbitrary observables. We summarize our previous results on kinematical bounds and show that these bounds are dynamically realizable for completely controllable systems. Moreover, we establish improved bounds for certain partially controllable systems. Finally, the question of dynamical realizability of the bounds for arbitary partially controllable systems is shown to depend on the accessible sets of the associated control system on the unitary group U(N) and the results of a few control computations are discussed briefly.

id: quant-ph/0010033
title: Quantum computing via measurements only
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010033
abstract: A quantum computer promises efficient processing of certain computational tasks that are intractable with classical computer technology. While basic principles of a quantum computer have been demonstrated in the laboratory, scalability of these systems to a large number of qubits, essential for practical applications such as the Shor algorithm, represents a formidable challenge. Most of the current experiments are designed to implement sequences of highly controlled interactions between selected particles (qubits), thereby following models of a quantum computer as a (sequential) network of quantum logic gates. Here we propose a different model of a scalable quantum computer. In our model, the entire resource for the quantum computation is provided initially in form of a specific entangled state (a so-called cluster state) of a large number of qubits. Information is then written onto the cluster, processed, and read out form the cluster by one-particle measurements only. The entangled state of the cluster thus serves as a universal substrate for any quantum computation. Cluster states can be created efficiently in any system with a quantum Ising-type interaction (at very low temperatures) between two-state particles in a lattice configuration.

id: quant-ph/0010034
title: Shor's Quantum Factoring Algorithm
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco, Jr
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010034
abstract: This paper is a written version of a one hour lecture given on Peter Shor's quantum factoring algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0010035
title: Improving the Fidelity of Quantum Cloning by Fast Cycling away the Unwanted Transition
authors: Shubhrangshu Dasgupta, G. S. Agarwal
comments: RevTeX, 12 pages, 6 figures, the text has been thoroughly revised with modified abstract, new figures and added reference ; resubmitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 64, 022315 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010035
abstract: The fidelity of quantum cloning is very often limited by the accompanying unwanted transitions. We show how the fidelity can be improved by using a coherent field to cycle away the unwanted transitions. We demonstrate this explicitly in the context of the model of Simon {\it et al.} [J. Mod. Opt. {\bf 47}, 233 (2000) ; Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 84}, 2993 (2000)]. We also investigate the effects of the number of atoms on the quality of quantum cloning. We show that the universality of the scheme can be maintained by choosing the cycling field according to the input state of the qubit.

id: quant-ph/0010036
title: Coherent quantum measurement for the direct determination of the degree of polarization and Polarization Mode Dispersion compensation
authors: N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages + 3 figures
journal: J. Modern Optics, 48, 1397-1403, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010036
abstract: An example of a coherent measurement for the direct evaluation of the degree of polarization of a single-mode optical beam is presented. It is applied to the case of great practical importance where depolarization is caused by polarization mode dispersion. It is demonstrated that coherent measurement has the potential of significantly increasing the information gain, compared to standard incoherent measurements.

id: quant-ph/0010037
title: Quantum nondemolition measurements in a Paul trap
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: 10 pages, accepted in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A277 (2000) 7-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010037
abstract: In this work a family of quantum nondemolition variables for the case of a particle caught in a Paul trap is obtained. Afterwards, in the context of the so called restricted path integral formalism, a continuous measuring process for this family of parameters is considered, and then the corresponding propagators are calculated. In other words, the time evolution of a particle in a Paul trap, when the corresponding quantum nondemolition parameter is being continuously monitored, is deduced. The probabilities associated with the possible measurement outputs are also obtained, and in this way new theoretical results emerge, which could allow us to confront the predictions of this restricted path integral formalism with the readouts of some future experiments.

id: quant-ph/0010038
title: Entanglement purification of unknown quantum states
authors: Todd A. Brun, Carlton M. Caves, Ruediger Schack
comments: 20 pages RevTeX 3.0 + 1 figure (encapsulated Postscript) Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042309 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010038
abstract: A concern has been expressed that ``the Jaynes principle can produce fake entanglement'' [R. Horodecki et al., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 59}, 1799 (1999)]. In this paper we discuss the general problem of distilling maximally entangled states from $N$ copies of a bipartite quantum system about which only partial information is known, for instance in the form of a given expectation value. We point out that there is indeed a problem with applying the Jaynes principle of maximum entropy to more than one copy of a system, but the nature of this problem is classical and was discussed extensively by Jaynes. Under the additional assumption that the state $\rho^{(N)}$ of the $N$ copies of the quantum system is exchangeable, one can write down a simple general expression for $\rho^{(N)}$. We show how to modify two standard entanglement purification protocols, one-way hashing and recurrence, so that they can be applied to exchangeable states. We thus give an explicit algorithm for distilling entanglement from an unknown or partially known quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0010039
title: Dirac's hole theory versus quantum field theory
authors: F.A.B. Coutinho, D. Kiang, Y. Nogami, Lauro Tomio
comments: No figures
journal: Can.J.Phys. 80 (2002) 837-845
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010039
abstract: Dirac's hole theory and quantum field theory are usually considered equivalent to each other. For models of a certain type, however, the equivalence may not hold as we discuss in this Letter. This problem is closely related to the validity of the Pauli principle in intermediate states of perturbation theory.

id: quant-ph/0010040
title: Grover's quantum search algorithm
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 13 pages, one figure. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010040
abstract: This paper is a written version of a one hour lecture given on Lov Grover's database search algorithm. Table Of Contents 1 ... Problem Definition 2 ... The quantum mechanical perspective 3 ... Properties of the inversion I_|psi> 4 ... The method in Lov's "madness" 5 ... Summary of Grover's algorithm 6 ... An example of Grover's algorithm References

id: quant-ph/0010041
title: Entanglement of Formation and Conditional Information Transmission
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 14 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .eps, 2 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010041
abstract: We show that the separability of states in quantum mechanics has a close counterpart in classical physics, and that conditional mutual information (a.k.a. conditional information transmission) is a very useful quantity in the study of both quantum and classical separabilities. We also show how to define entanglement of formation in terms of conditional mutual information. This paper lays the theoretical foundations for a sequel paper which will present a computer program that can calculate a decomposition of any separable quantum or classical state.

id: quant-ph/0010042
title: On a Physical Metatheory of Consciousness
authors: Miroljub Dugic, Dejan Rakovic, Milan M. Cirkovic
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Contributed paper to 3rd International Conference on Cognitive Science, Ljubljana, Slovenia, October 17-19, 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010042
abstract: We show that the modern quantum mechanics, and particularly the theory of decoherence, allows for formulating a sort of a physical metatheory of consciousness. Particularly, the analysis of the necessary conditions for the occurrence of decoherence, along with the hypothesis that consciousness bears (more-or-less) well definable physical origin, leads to a wider physical picture naturally involving consciousness. This can be considered as a sort of a psycho-physical parallelism, but on rather wide scales bearing some cosmological relevance.

id: quant-ph/0010043
title: Quantum Factor Graphs
authors: Matthew G. Parker
comments: Minor modifications. 24 pages, Latex, 14 figures, Presented in part at 2nd Int. Symp. on Turbo Codes and Related Topics, Brest, France, Sept 4-7, 2000 Accepted for publication in "Annals of Telecom." 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010043
abstract: The natural Hilbert Space of quantum particles can implement maximum-likelihood (ML) decoding of classical information. The 'Quantum Product Algorithm' (QPA) is computed on a Factor Graph, where function nodes are unitary matrix operations followed by appropriate quantum measurement. QPA is like the Sum-Product Algorithm (SPA), but without summary, giving optimal decode with exponentially finer detail than achievable using SPA. Graph cycles have no effect on QPA performance. QPA must be repeated a number of times before successful and the ML codeword is obtained only after repeated quantum 'experiments'. ML amplification improves decoding accuracy, and Distributed QPA facilitates successful evolution.

id: quant-ph/0010044
title: Bunching and antibunching from single NV color centers in diamond
authors: A. Beveratos, R. Brouri, J.-P. Poizat, P. Grangier
comments: 7 pages, 5 pictures, submitted in QCM&C 3 Proceedings (Kluver Academic/Plenum Publisher)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010044
abstract: We investigate correlations between fluorescence photons emitted by single N-V centers in diamond with respect to the optical excitation power. The autocorrelation function shows clear photon antibunching at short times, proving the uniqueness of the emitting center. We also report on a photon bunching effect, which involves a trapping level. An analysis using rate-equations for the populations of the N-V center levels shows the intensity dependence of the rate equation coefficients.

id: quant-ph/0010045
title: Self-Binding Transition in Bose Condensates with Laser-Induced ``Gravitation''
authors: S. Giovanazzi, D. O'Dell, G. Kurizki
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures: slightly enhanced text: more explanation
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rapid communication) 63, 031603 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010045
abstract: In our recent publication (D. O'Dell, et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 5687 (2000)) we proposed a scheme for electromagnetically generating a self-bound Bose-Einstein condensate with 1/r attractive interactions: the analog of a Bose star. Here we focus upon the conditions neccessary to observe the transition from external trapping to self-binding. This transition becomes manifest in a sharp reduction of the condensate radius and its dependence on the laser intensity rather that the trap potential.

id: quant-ph/0010046
title: Quantum Teleportation with a Complete Bell State Measurement
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Sergei P. Kulik, Yanhua Shih
comments: 4 pages, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1370 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010046
abstract: We report a quantum teleportation experiment in which nonlinear interactions are used for the Bell state measurements. The experimental results demonstrate the working principle of irreversibly teleporting an unknown arbitrary quantum state from one system to another distant system by disassembling into and then later reconstructing from purely classical information and nonclassical EPR correlations. The distinct feature of this experiment is that \emph{all} four Bell states can be distinguished in the Bell state measurement. Teleportation of a quantum state can thus occur with certainty in principle.

id: quant-ph/0010047
title: Bell's Theorem Without Hidden Variables
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: This paper is a much simplified, yet still rigorous, version of quant-ph/0010047. The descriptive material is almost all new, and I believe very clear, but the rigorous formal argument, now relegated to Appendices, is the same as before. I consider it to be a new paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010047
abstract: Experiments motivated by Bell's theorem have led some physicists to conclude that quantum theory is nonlocal. However, the theoretical basis for such claims is usually taken to be Bell's Theorem, which shows only that if certain predictions of quantum theory are correct, and a strong hidden-variable assumption is valid, then a certain locality condition must fail. This locality condition expresses the idea that what an experimenter freely chooses to measure in one spacetime region can have no effect of any kind in a second region situated spacelike relative to the first. The experimental results conform closely to the predictions of quantum theory in such cases, but the most reasonable conclusion to draw is not that locality fails, but rather that the hidden-variable assumption is false. For this assumption conflicts with the quantum precept that unperformed experiments have no outcomes. The present paper deduces the failure of this locality condition directly from the precepts of quantum theory themselves, in a way that generates no inconsistency or any conflict with the predictions of relativistic quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0010048
title: Zero knowledge convincing protocol on quantum bit is impossible
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010048
abstract: Consider two parties: Alice and Bob and suppose that Bob is given a qubit system in a quantum state $\phi$, unknown to him. Alice knows $\phi$ and she is supposed to convince Bob that she knows $\phi$ sending some test message. Is it possible for her to convince Bob providing him "zero knowledge" i. e. no information about $\phi$ he has? We prove that there is no "zero knowledge" protocol of that kind. In fact it turns out that basing on Alice message, Bob (or third party - Eve - who can intercept the message) can synthetize a copy of the unknown qubit state $\phi$ with nonzero probability. This "no-go" result puts general constrains on information processing where information {\it about} quantum state is involved.

id: quant-ph/0010049
title: Unitary transformations for testing Bell inequalities
authors: S. D. Bartlett, D. A. Rice, B. C. Sanders, J. Daboul, H. de Guise
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042310 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010049
abstract: It is shown that optical experimental tests of Bell inequality violations can be described by SU(1,1) transformations of the vacuum state, followed by photon coincidence detections. The set of all possible tests are described by various SU(1,1) subgroups of Sp(8,$\Bbb R$). In addition to establishing a common formalism for physically distinct Bell inequality tests, the similarities and differences of post--selected tests of Bell inequality violations are also made clear. A consequence of this analysis is that Bell inequality tests are performed on a very general version of SU(1,1) coherent states, and the theoretical violation of the Bell inequality by coincidence detection is calculated and discussed. This group theoretical approach to Bell states is relevant to Bell state measurements, which are performed, for example, in quantum teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0010050
title: Nash Equilibrium in the Quantum Battle of Sexes Game
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Xiaodong Xu, Hui Li, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010050
abstract: We investigate Nash Equilibrium in the quantum Battle of Sexes Game. We find the game has infinite Nash Equilibria and all of them leads to the asymmetry result. We also show that there is no unique but infinite Nash Equilibrium in it if we use the quantizing scheme proposed by Eisert et al and the two players are allowed to adopt any unitary operator as his/her strategies.

id: quant-ph/0010051
title: Quantum Dynamics of Three Coupled Atomic Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: K. Nemoto, C. A. Holmes, G. J. Milburn, W. J. Munro
comments: Accepted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev A. 63, 013604 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010051
abstract: The simplest model of three coupled Bose-Einstein Condensates (BEC) is investigated using a group theoretical method. The stationary solutions are determined using the SU(3) group under the mean field approximation. This semiclassical analysis using the system symmetries shows a transition in the dynamics of the system from self trapping to delocalization at a critical value for the coupling between the condensates. The global dynamics are investigated by examination of the stable points and our analysis shows the structure of the stable points depends on the ratio of the condensate coupling to the particle-particle interaction, undergoes bifurcations as this ratio is varied. This semiclassical model is compared to a full quantum treatment, which also displays the dynamical transition. The quantum case has collapse and revival sequences superposed on the semiclassical dynamics reflecting the underlying discreteness of the spectrum. Non-zero circular current states are also demonstrated as one of the higher dimensional effects displayed in this system.

id: quant-ph/0010052
title: A potential multipartide entanglement measure
authors: Alexander Wong, Nelson Christensen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 63, 044301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010052
abstract: We discuss entanglement of multiparticle quantum systems. We propose a potential measure of a type of entanglement of pure states of n qubits, the n-tangle. For a system of two qubits the n-tangle is equal to the square of the concurrence, and for systems of three qubits it is equal to the ''residual entanglement''. We show that the n -tangle, is also equal to the generalization of concurrence squared for even n, and use this fact to prove that the n-tangle is an entanglement monotone. However, the n-tangle is undefined for odd n>3. Finally we propose a measure related to the n-tangle for mixed state systems of n qubits, and find an analytical formula for this measure for even n.

id: quant-ph/0010053
title: Entanglement transformation at dielectric four-port devices
authors: S.Scheel, L.Knoll, T.Opatrny, D.-G.Welsch
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, Paper presented at the Fifth International Conference on Quantum Communication Measurement & Computing, Capri, Italy - July 3-8 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010053
abstract: Quantum communication schemes widely use dielectric four-port devices as basic elements for constructing optical quantum channels. Since for causality reasons the permittivity is necessarily a complex function of frequency, dielectrics are typical examples of noisy quantum channels in which quantum coherence will not be preserved. Basing on quantization of the phenomenological electrodynamics, we construct the transformation relating the output quantum state to the input quantum state without placing frequency restrictions. Knowledge of the full transformed quantum state enables us to compute the entanglement contained in the output quantum state. We apply the formalism to some typical examples in quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0010054
title: Nonadditivity of Bipartite Distillable Entanglement follows from Conjecture on Bound Entangled Werner States
authors: Peter W. Shor, John A. Smolin, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 4 pages RevTex, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. Title changed and small paragraph added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 2681--2684 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010054
abstract: Assuming the validity of a conjecture in quant-ph/9910026 and quant-ph/9910022 we show that the distillable entanglement for two bipartite states, each of which individually has zero distillable entanglement, can be nonzero. We show that this also implies that the distillable entanglement is not a convex function. Our example consists of the tensor product of a bound entangled state based on an unextendible product basis with a Werner state which lies in the class of conjectured undistillable states.

id: quant-ph/0010055
title: Scharnhorst effect at oblique incidence
authors: Stefano Liberati, Sebastiano Sonego, Matt Visser
comments: 11 pages double-column format, 2 figures, RevTeX 4.0 (beta 2). Final version
journal: Phys.Rev. D63 (2001) 085003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010055
abstract: We consider the Scharnhorst effect (anomalous photon propagation in the Casimir vacuum) at oblique incidence, calculating both photon speed and polarization states as functions of angle. The analysis is performed in the framework of nonlinear electrodynamics and we show that many features of the situation can be extracted solely on the basis of symmetry considerations. Although birefringence is common in nonlinear electrodynamics it is not universal; in particular we verify that the Casimir vacuum is not birefringent at any incidence angle. On the other hand, group velocity is typically not equal to phase velocity, though the distinction vanishes for special directions or if one is only working to second order in the fine structure constant. We obtain an ``effective metric'' that is subtly different from previous results. The disagreement is due to the way that ``polarization sums'' are implemented in the extant literature, and we demonstrate that a fully consistent polarization sum must be implemented via a bootstrap procedure using the effective metric one is attempting to define. Furthermore, in the case of birefringence, we show that the polarization sum technique is intrinsically an approximation.

id: quant-ph/0010056
title: Time Correlation in Tunneling of Photons
authors: Peter Hrasko
comments: 20 pages, improved text, figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010056
abstract: I propose to consider photon tunneling as a space-time correlation phenomenon between the emission and absorption of a photon on the two sides of a barrier. Standard technics based on an appropriate counting rate formula may then be applied to derive the tunneling time distribution without any {\em ad hoc} definition of this quantity. General formulae are worked out for a potential model using Wigner-Weisskopf method. For a homogeneous square barrier in the limit of zero tunneling probability a vanishing tunneling time is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0010057
title: Theory of quantum computation
authors: E. H. Knill, M. A. Nielsen
comments: 5 pages
journal: Encyclopedia of Mathematics, Supplement III, ed. M. Hazewinkel, Kluwer (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010057
abstract: Short review article on quantum computation accepted for Supplement III, Encyclopaedia of Mathematics (publication expected Summer 2001). See also this http URL

id: quant-ph/0010058
title: Quantum information processing
authors: E. H. Knill, M. A. Nielsen
comments: 7 pages
journal: Encyclopedia of Mathematics, Supplement III, ed. M. Hazewinkel, Kluwer (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010058
abstract: Short review article on quantum information processing accepted for Supplement III, Encyclopaedia of Mathematics (publication expected Summer 2001). See also this http URL

id: quant-ph/0010059
title: The effects of time delays in adaptive phase measurements
authors: D. W. Berry, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, minor changes from published version
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 48, 797 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010059
abstract: It is not possible to make measurements of the phase of an optical mode using linear optics without introducing an extra phase uncertainty. This extra phase variance is quite large for heterodyne measurements, however it is possible to reduce it to the theoretical limit of log(n)/(4n^2) using adaptive measurements. These measurements are quite sensitive to experimental inaccuracies, especially time delays and inefficient detectors. Here it is shown that the minimum introduced phase variance when there is a time delay of tau is tau/(8n). This result is verified numerically, showing that the phase variance introduced approaches this limit for most of the adaptive schemes using the best final phase estimate. The main exception is the adaptive mark II scheme with simplified feedback, which is extremely sensitive to time delays. The extra phase variance due to time delays is considered for the mark I case with simplified feedback, verifying the tau/2 result obtained by Wiseman and Killip both by a more rigorous analytic technique and numerically.

id: quant-ph/0010060
title: Quantum Information Theory
authors: Robert H. Schumann
comments: M.Sc thesis, University of Stellenbosch (South Africa), 88 pages single-spaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010060
abstract: In this thesis I present a short review of ideas in quantum information theory. The first chapter contains introductory material, sketching the central ideas of probability and information theory. Quantum mechanics is presented at the level of advanced undergraduate knowledge, together with some useful tools for quantum mechanics of open systems. In the second chapter I outline how classical information is represented in quantum systems and what this means for agents trying to extract information from these systems. The final chapter presents a new resource: quantum information. This resource has some bewildering applications which have been discovered in the last ten years, and continually presents us with unexpected insights into quantum theory and the universe. The treatment is pedagogical and suitable for beginning graduates in the field.

id: quant-ph/0010061
title: Semiclassical theory of cavity-assisted atom cooling
authors: Peter Domokos, Peter Horak, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys 34 (2001) 187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010061
abstract: We present a systematic semiclassical model for the simulation of the dynamics of a single two-level atom strongly coupled to a driven high-finesse optical cavity. From the Fokker-Planck equation of the combined atom-field Wigner function we derive stochastic differential equations for the atomic motion and the cavity field. The corresponding noise sources exhibit strong correlations between the atomic momentum fluctuations and the noise in the phase quadrature of the cavity field. The model provides an effective tool to investigate localisation effects as well as cooling and trapping times. In addition, we can continuously study the transition from a few photon quantum field to the classical limit of a large coherent field amplitude.

id: quant-ph/0010062
title: Homodyne Bell's inequalities for entangled mesoscopic superpositions
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Extended version, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 062102 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010062
abstract: We present a scheme for demonstrating violation of Bell's inequalities using a spin-1/2 system entangled with a pair of classically distinguishable wave packets in a harmonic potential. In the optical domain, such wave packets can be represented by coherent states of a single light mode. The proposed scheme involves standard spin-1/2 projections and measurements of the position and the momentum of the harmonic oscillator system, which for a light mode can be realized by means of homodyne detection. We discuss effects of imperfections, including non-unit efficiency of the homodyne detector, and point out a close link between the visibility of interference and violation of Bell's inequalities in the described scheme.

id: quant-ph/0010063
title: Vacuum-Stimulated Raman Scattering based on Adiabatic Passage in a High-Finesse Optical Cavity
authors: M. Hennrich, T. Legero, A. Kuhn, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4872-4875 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010063
abstract: We report on the first observation of stimulated Raman scattering from a Lambda-type three-level atom, where the stimulation is realized by the vacuum field of a high-finesse optical cavity. The scheme produces one intracavity photon by means of an adiabatic passage technique based on a counter-intuitive interaction sequence between pump laser and cavity field. This photon leaves the cavity through the less-reflecting mirror. The emission rate shows a characteristic dependence on the cavity and pump detuning, and the observed spectra have a sub-natural linewidth. The results are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0010064
title: Quantum Jumps on a Circle
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: LaTeX, 3 PostScript figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 293 (2002) 109-115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010064
abstract: It is demonstrated that in contrast to the well-known case with a quantum particle moving freely in a real line, the wave packets corresponding to the coherent states for a free quantum particle on a circle do not spread but develop periodically in time. The discontinuous changes during the course of time in the phase representing the position of a particle can be interpreted as the quantum jumps on a circle.

id: quant-ph/0010065
title: Artificial Orbitals and a Solution to Grover's Problem
authors: Michael Stay
comments: Two typos fixed; submitted to Phys Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010065
abstract: By allowing measurements of observables other than the state of the qubits in a quantum computer, one can find eigenvectors very quickly. If a unitary operation U is implemented as a time-independent Hamiltonian, for instance, one can collapse the state of the computer to a nearby eigenvector of U with a measurement of the energy. We examine some recent proposals for quantum computation using time-independent Hamiltonians and show how to convert them into ``artificial orbitals'' whose energy eigenstates match those of U. This system can be used to find eigenvectors and eigenvalues with a single measurement. We apply this technique to Grover's algorithm and the continuous variant proposed by Farhi and Gutmann.

id: quant-ph/0010066
title: Vacuum Induced Coherences in Radiatively Coupled Multilevel Systems
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Anil K. Patnaik
comments: 13 pages including 8 figures in Revtex; submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 63, pg. 043805 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010066
abstract: We show that radiative coupling between two multilevel atoms having near-degenerate states can produce new interference effects in spontaneous emission. We explicitly demonstrate this possibility by considering two identical V systems each having a pair of transition dipole matrix elements which are orthogonal to each other. We discuss in detail the origin of the new interference terms and their consequences. Such terms lead to the evolution of certain coherences and excitations which would not occur otherwise. The special choice of the orientation of the transition dipole matrix elements enables us to illustrate the significance of vacuum induced coherence in multi-atom multilevel systems. These coherences can be significant in energy transfer studies.

id: quant-ph/0010067
title: Laser Cooling of Trapped Fermi Gases deeply below the Fermi Temperature
authors: Z. Idziaszek, L. Santos, M. Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 051402 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010067
abstract: We study the collective Raman cooling of a polarized trapped Fermi gas in the Festina Lente regime, when the heating effects associated with photon reabsorptions are suppressed. We predict that by adjusting the spontaneous Raman emission rates and using appropriately designed anharmonic traps, temperatures of the order of 2.7% of the Fermi temperature can be achieved in 3D.

id: quant-ph/0010068
title: Geometric Phase of Three-level Systems in Interferometry
authors: Barry C. Sanders, Hubert de Guise, Stephen D. Bartlett, Weiping Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (2001), 369
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010068
abstract: We present the first scheme for producing and measuring an Abelian geometric phase shift in a three-level system where states are invariant under a non-Abelian group. In contrast to existing experiments and proposals for experiments, based on U(1)-invariant states, our scheme geodesically evolves U(2)-invariant states in a four-dimensional SU(3)/U(2) space and is physically realized via a three-channel optical interferometer.

id: quant-ph/0010069
title: Quantum mechanics with the permitted hidden parameters
authors: D.A.Slavnov
comments: 9 pages, LaTex, no figures. Talk at "QFTHEP 2000" Tver, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010069
abstract: Within the framework of the algebraic approach the problem of hidden parameters in quantum mechanics is surveyed. It is shown that the algebraic formulation of quantum mechanics permits introduction of a specific hidden parameter, which has the form of nonlinear functional on the algebra of observables. It is found out that the reasoning of von Neumann and of Bell about incompatibility of quantum mechanics with hidden parameters is inapplicable to the present case.

id: quant-ph/0010070
title: Approximate quantum cloning and the impossibility of superluminal information transfer
authors: D. Bruss, G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 1eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 62302 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010070
abstract: We show that nonlocality of quantum mechanics cannot lead to superluminal transmission of information, even if most general local operations are allowed, as long as they are linear and trace preserving. In particular, any quantum mechanical approximate cloning transformation does not allow signalling. On the other hand, the no-signalling constraint on its own is not sufficient to prevent a transformation from surpassing the known cloning bounds. We illustrate these concepts on the basis of some examples.

id: quant-ph/0010071
title: Clifford algebras and universal sets of quantum gates
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX (2 col.), low-level language corrections, PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 054302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010071
abstract: In this paper is shown an application of Clifford algebras to the construction of computationally universal sets of quantum gates for $n$-qubit systems. It is based on the well-known application of Lie algebras together with the especially simple commutation law for Clifford algebras, which states that all basic elements either commute or anticommute.

id: quant-ph/0010072
title: Decoherence in a superconducting ring
authors: S. Khlebnikov
comments: 13 pages, revtex, 1 figure; corrected calculation for low frequencies
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010072
abstract: A superconducting ring has different sectors of states corresponding to different values of the trapped magnetic flux; this multitude of states can be used for quantum information storage. If a current supporting a nonzero flux is set up in the ring, fluctuations of electromagnetic field will be able to ``detect'' that current and thus cause a loss of quantum coherence. We estimate the decoherence exponent for a ring of a round type-II wire and find that it contains a macroscopic suppression factor $(\delta / R_{1})^{2}$, where $R_{1}$ is the radius of the wire, and $\delta$ is the London penetration depth. We present some encouraging numerical estimates based on this result.

id: quant-ph/0010073
title: Singular Potentials and Limit Cycles
authors: S.R. Beane, P.F. Bedaque, L. Childress, A. Kryjevski, J. McGuire, U. van Kolck
comments: 15 pages LaTex, 5 eps figures, error in figures and text corrected
journal: Phys.Rev. A64 (2001) 042103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010073
abstract: We show that a central $1/r^n$ singular potential (with $n\geq 2$) is renormalized by a one-parameter square-well counterterm; low-energy observables are made independent of the square-well width by adjusting the square-well strength. We find a closed form expression for the renormalization-group evolution of the square-well counterterm.

id: quant-ph/0010074
title: Entanglement of Quantum Evolutions
authors: Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 Pages, RevTeX. Version accepted by Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Comm.)
journal: Phys.Rev.A63:040304,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010074
abstract: The notion of entanglement can be naturally extended from quantum-states to the level of general quantum evolutions. This is achieved by considering multi-partite unitary transformations as elements of a multi-partite Hilbert space and then extended to general quantum operations. We show some connection between this entanglement and the entangling capabilities of the quantum evolution.

id: quant-ph/0010075
title: Computational leakage: Grover's algorithm with imperfections
authors: Pil Hun Song, Ilki Kim
comments: Accepted for publication in European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010075
abstract: We study the effects of dissipation or leakage on the time evolution of Grover's algorithm for a quantum computer. We introduce an effective two-level model with dissipation and randomness (imperfections), which is based upon the idea that ideal Grover's algorithm operates in a 2-dimensional Hilbert space. The simulation results of this model and Grover's algorithm with imperfections are compared, and it is found that they are in good agreement for appropriately tuned parameters. It turns out that the main features of Grover's algorithm with imperfections can be understood in terms of two basic mechanisms, namely, a diffusion of probability density into the full Hilbert space and a stochastic rotation within the original 2-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0010076
title: Beyond Stabilizer Codes II: Clifford Codes
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX2e. Minor changes. Title changed by request of IEEE Trans. IT
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 48, no. 8, pp. 2396-2399, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010076
abstract: Knill introduced a generalization of stabilizer codes, in this note called Clifford codes. It remained unclear whether or not Clifford codes can be superior to stabilizer codes. We show that Clifford codes are stabilizer codes provided that the abstract error group has an abelian index group. In particular, if the errors are modelled by tensor products of Pauli matrices, then the associated Clifford codes are necessarily stabilizer codes.

id: quant-ph/0010077
title: Analysis of Generalized Grover's Quantum Search Algorithms Using Recursion Equations
authors: Eli Biham, Ofer Biham, David Biron, Markus Grassl, Daniel A. Lidar, Daniel Shapira
comments: 8 pages, no figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 012310 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010077
abstract: The recursion equation analysis of Grover's quantum search algorithm presented by Biham et al. [PRA 60, 2742 (1999)] is generalized. It is applied to the large class of Grover's type algorithms in which the Hadamard transform is replaced by any other unitary transformation and the phase inversion is replaced by a rotation by an arbitrary angle. The time evolution of the amplitudes of the marked and unmarked states, for any initial complex amplitude distribution is expressed using first order linear difference equations. These equations are solved exactly. The solution provides the number of iterations T after which the probability of finding a marked state upon measurement is the highest, as well as the value of this probability, P_max. Both T and P_max are found to depend on the averages and variances of the initial amplitude distributions of the marked and unmarked states, but not on higher moments.

id: quant-ph/0010078
title: On the partial wave amplitude of Coulomb scattering in three dimensions
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: revtex, 6 pages, no figure
journal: Am. J. Phys. 68 (2000) 1056-1057
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010078
abstract: The partial wave series for the Coulomb scattering amplitude in three dimensions is evaluated in a very simple way to give the closed result.

id: quant-ph/0010079
title: Semiclassical description of Stern-Gerlach experiments
authors: S. Cruz-Barrios, J. Gomez-Camacho
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A, 19 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010079
abstract: The motion of neutral particles with magnetic moments in an inhomogeneous magnetic field is described in a semi-classical framework. The concept of Coherent Internal States is used in the formulation of the semiclassical approximation from the full quantum mechanical expression. The classical trajectories are defined only for certain spin state, that satusfy the conditions for being Coherent Internal State. The raalibility of Stern-Gerlach experiments to measure spin projectons is assessed in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0010080
title: Bounds on relative entropy of entanglement for multi-party systems
authors: M. B. Plenio, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A 34, 6997 - 7002 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010080
abstract: We present upper and lower bounds to the relative entropy of entanglement of multi-party systems in terms of the bi-partite entanglements of formation and distillation and entropies of various subsystems. We point out implications of our results to the local reversible convertibility of multi-party pure states and discuss their physical basis in terms of deleting of information.

id: quant-ph/0010081
title: Theory of the Quantum Speed Up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli, David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 10 pages, RevTex, 1 page of 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010081
abstract: Insofar as quantum computation is faster than classical, it appears to be irreversible. In all quantum algorithms found so far the speed-up depends on the extra-dynamical irreversible projection representing quantum measurement. Quantum measurement performs a computation that dynamical computation cannot accomplish as efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0010082
title: Beyond Stabilizer Codes I: Nice Error Bases
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e. Minor changes. Title changed by request of IEEE Trans. IT
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 48, no. 8, pp. 2392-2395, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010082
abstract: Nice error bases have been introduced by Knill as a generalization of the Pauli basis. These bases are shown to be projective representations of finite groups. We classify all nice error bases of small degree, and all nice error bases with abelian index groups. We show that in general an index group of a nice error basis is necessarily solvable.

id: quant-ph/0010083
title: Can We Obtain Quantum Theory From Reasonable Axioms?
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: This paper has been withdrawn since it has been superseded by "Quantum theory from five reasonable axioms" - quant-ph/0101012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010083
abstract: See quant-ph/0101012

id: quant-ph/0010084
title: Classical solution of the wave equation
authors: M. N. Sergeenko
comments: 8 Pages, 10 Refs, LaTex
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A,18 (2003) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010084
abstract: The classical limit of wave quantum mechanics is analyzed. It is shown that the general requirements of continuity and finiteness to the solution $\psi(x)=Ae^{i\phi(x)}+ Be^{-i\phi(x)}$, where $\phi(x)=\frac 1\hbar W(x)$ and $W(x)$ is the reduced classical action of the physical system, result in the asymptote of the exact solution and general quantization condition for $W(x)$, which yields the exact eigenvalues of the system.

id: quant-ph/0010085
title: Entangled quantum states as direction indicators
authors: Asher Peres, Petra F. Scudo
comments: 3 pages REVTEX and one PostScript figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (2001) 4160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010085
abstract: We consider the use of N spin-1/2 particles for indicating a direction in space. If N>2, their optimal state is entangled. For large N, the mean square error decreases as N^{-2} (rather than N^{-1} for parallel spins).

id: quant-ph/0010086
title: Reply to "On Stapp's`Nonlocal Character of Quantum Theory' "
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: Amer. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010086
abstract: The question raised by Shimony and Stein is examined and used to explain in more detail a key point of my proof that any theory that conforms to certain general ideas of orthodox relativistic quantum field theory must permit transfers of information over spacelike intervals. It is also explained why this result is not a problem for relativistic quantum theory, but, on the contrary, opens the door to a satisfactory realistic relativistic quantum theory based on the ideas of Tomonaga, Schwinger, and von Neumann.

id: quant-ph/0010087
title: Complex Calogero model with real energies
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Milos Tater
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34 (2001) 1793 - 1803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010087
abstract: We show that and how PT symmetry (interpreted as a "weakened Hermiticity") can be extended to the exactly solvable two- and three-particle Calogero model.

id: quant-ph/0010088
title: Spin squeezing of mixed systems
authors: K.S. Mallesh, Swarnamala Sirsi, Mahmoud A.A. Sbaih, P.N. Deepak, G. Ramachandran
comments: Uses packages times, latexsym, IOP style files iopart.cls, iopams.sty, 14 pages, 6 figure files
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Gen. 34 (2001) 3293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010088
abstract: The notion of spin squeezing has been discussed in this paper using the density matrix formalism. Extending the definition of squeezing for pure states given by Kitagawa and Ueda in an appropriate manner and employing the spherical tensor representation, we show that mixed spin states which are non-oriented and possess vector polarization indeed exhibit squeezing. We construct a mixed state of a spin 1 system using two spin 1/2 states and study its squeezing behaviour as a function of the individual polarizations of the two spinors.

id: quant-ph/0010089
title: Understanding quantum effects from classical principles
authors: N. Klipa, S. D. Bosanac
comments: 36 pages + 4 figures
journal: Intern. Journ. Theor. Phys., Group Theory and Nonlinear Optics, 7, 15, (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010089
abstract: Dynamics of a particle is formulated from classical principles that are amended by the uncertainty principle. Two best known quantum effects: interference and tunneling are discussed from these principles. It is shown that identical to quantum results are obtained by solving only classical equations of motion. Within the context of interference Aharonov-Bohm effect is solved as a local action of magnetic force on the particle. On the example of tunneling it is demonstrated how uncertainty principle amends traditional classical mechanics: it allows the momentum of the particle to change without the force being the cause of it.

id: quant-ph/0010090
title: Decoherence: A dynamical approach to superselection rules?
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX-2e, no figures, Springer style file <cl2emult.sty> needed
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 559 (2000) 67-92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010090
abstract: It is well known that the dynamical mechanism of decoherence may cause apparent superselection rules, like that of molecular chirality. These `environment-induced' or `soft' superselection rules may be contrasted with `hard' superselection rules, like that of electric charge, whose existence is usually rigorously demonstrated by means of certain symmetry principles. We address the question of whether this distinction between `hard' and `soft' is well founded and argue that, despite first appearance, it might not be. For this we give a detailed and somewhat pedagogical exposition of the basic structural properties of the spaces of states and observables in order to establish a fairly precise notion of superselection rules. We then discuss two examples: the Bargmann superselection rule for overall mass in ordinary quantum mechanics, and the superselection rule for charge in quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0010091
title: Local hidden-variable models and negative-probability measures
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010091
abstract: Elaborating on a previous work by Han et al., we give a general, basis-independent proof of the necessity of negative probability measures in order for a class of local hidden-variable (LHV) models to violate the Bell-CHSH inequality. Moreover, we obtain general solutions for LHV-induced probability measures that reproduce any consistent set of probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0010092
title: Multi-Player and Multi-Choice Quantum Game
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Xiaodong Xu, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 19, 1221 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010092
abstract: We investigate a multi-player and multi-choice quantum game. We start from two-player and two-choice game and the result is better than its classical version. Then we extend it to N-player and N-choice cases. In the quantum domain, we provide a strategy with which players can always avoid the worst outcome. Also, by changing the value of the parameter of the initial state, the probabilities for players to obtain the best payoff will be much higher that in its classical version.

id: quant-ph/0010093
title: The Quantum-Classical Transition in Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
authors: Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs, Hideo Mabuchi, Robert Ryne, Kosuke Shizume, Bala Sundaram
comments: 4 pages, multicol revtex (2 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 040402 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010093
abstract: Viewed as approximations to quantum mechanics, classical evolutions can violate the positive-semidefiniteness of the density matrix. The nature of this violation suggests a classification of dynamical systems based on classical-quantum correspondence; we show that this can be used to identify when environmental interaction (decoherence) will be unsuccessful in inducing the quantum-classical transition. In particular, the late-time Wigner function can become positive without any corresponding approach to classical dynamics. In the light of these results, we emphasize key issues relevant for experiments studying the quantum-classical transition.

id: quant-ph/0010094
title: The Dirac algebra and its physical interpretation
authors: Peter Rowlands, John P. Cullerne
comments: 36 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010094
abstract: A version of the Dirac equation is derived from first principles using a combination of quaternions and multivariate 4-vectors. The nilpotent form of the operators used allows us to derive explicit expressions for the wavefunctions of free fermions, vector bosons, scalar bosons; Bose-Einstein condensates, and baryons;annihilation, creation and vacuum operators; the quantum field integrals; and C, P and T transformations; and to suggest new insights into the meaning of supersymmetry and renormalization.

id: quant-ph/0010095
title: Entanglement Measures under Symmetry
authors: K.G. H. Vollbrecht, R.F. Werner
comments: RevTeX,16 pages,9 figures, reference added, proof of monotonicity corrected, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010095
abstract: We show how to simplify the computation of the entanglement of formation and the relative entropy of entanglement for states, which are invariant under a group of local symmetries. For several examples of groups we characterize the state spaces, which are invariant under these groups. For specific examples we calculate the entanglement measures. In particular, we derive an explicit formula for the entanglement of formation for UU-invariant states, and we find a counterexample to the additivity conjecture for the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0010096
title: Separability properties of tripartite states with UxUxU-symmetry
authors: T. Eggeling, R.F. Werner
comments: 16 pages, RevTeX, 14 figures. Extends quant-ph/0003008 with additional results. Submitted to Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010096
abstract: We study separability properties in a 5-dimensional set of states of quantum systems composed of three subsystems of equal but arbitrary finite Hilbert space dimension d. These are the states, which can be written as linear combinations of permutation operators, or, equivalently, commute with unitaries of the form UxUxU. We compute explicitly the following subsets and their extreme points: (1) triseparable states, which are convex combinations of triple tensor products, (2) biseparable states, which are separable for a twofold partition of the system, and (3) states with positive partial transpose with respect to such a partition. Tripartite entanglement is investigated in terms of the relative entropy of tripartite entanglement and of the trace norm.

id: quant-ph/0010097
title: A Lorentz-invariant look at quantum clock synchronization protocols based on distributed entanglement
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 5 pages; typeset in RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010097
abstract: Recent work has raised the possibility that quantum information theory techniques can be used to synchronize atomic clocks nonlocally. One of the proposed algorithms for quantum clock synchronization (QCS) requires distribution of entangled pure singlets to the synchronizing parties. Such remote entanglement distribution normally creates a relative phase error in the distributed singlet state which then needs to be purified asynchronously. We present a fully relativistic analysis of the QCS protocol which shows that asynchronous entanglement purification is not possible, and, therefore, that the proposed QCS scheme remains incomplete. We discuss possible directions of research in quantum information theory which may lead to a complete, working QCS protocol.

id: quant-ph/0010098
title: Quantum clock synchronization and quantum error correction
authors: John Preskill
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX and epsf
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010098
abstract: I consider quantum protocols for clock synchronization, and investigate in particular whether entanglement distillation or quantum error-correcting codes can improve the robustness of these protocols. I also draw attention to some unanswered questions about the relativistic theory of quantum measurement. This paper is based on a talk given at the NASA-DoD Workshop on Quantum Information and Clock Synchronization for Space Applications (QuICSSA), September 25-26, 2000.

id: quant-ph/0010099
title: Experimental Test for Absence of R-Term in Schroedinger Equation in Curved Space
authors: H. Kleinert
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010099
abstract: We point out that the presence of a term proportional to the scalar curvature in the Schroedinger equation in curved space can easily be detected in atomic spectra with Russel-Saunders coupling by a violation of the Lande interval rule for adjacent levels E_J-E_{J-1} propto J.

id: quant-ph/0010100
title: Cartan Decomposition of SU(2^n), Constructive Controllability of Spin systems and Universal Quantum Computing
authors: Navin Khaneja, Steffen Glaser
comments: 17 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010100
abstract: In this paper we provide an explicit parameterization of arbitrary unitary transformation acting on n qubits, in terms of one and two qubit quantum gates. The construction is based on successive Cartan decompositions of the semi-simple Lie group, SU(2^n). The decomposition highlights the geometric aspects of building an arbitrary unitary transformation out of quantum gates and makes explicit the choice of pulse sequences for the implementation of arbitrary unitary transformation on $n coupled spins. Finally we make observations on the optimality of the design procedure.

id: quant-ph/0010101
title: Invariant Polynomial Functions on k qudits
authors: Jean-Luc Brylinski, Ranee Brylinski
comments: 6 pages (Latex file); the Nov 14, 200 revision adds references and comments on the literature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010101
abstract: We study the polynomial functions on tensor states in $(C^n)^{\otimes k}$ which are invariant under $SU(n)^k$. We describe the space of invariant polynomials in terms of symmetric group representations. For $k$ even, the smallest degree for invariant polynomials is $n$ and in degree $n$ we find a natural generalization of the determinant. For $n,d$ fixed, we describe the asymptotic behavior of the dimension of the space of invariants as $k\to\infty$. We study in detail the space of homogeneous degree 4 invariant polynomial functions on $(C^2)^{\otimes k}$.

id: quant-ph/0010102
title: Localization of Macroscopic Object Induced by the Factorization of Internal Adiabatic Motion
authors: C.P.Sun, X.F.liu, D.L.Zhou, S.X.Yu
comments: Revtex4,23 pages,1figure
journal: ITP-CAS/Quantum/2000.10-1,ESI
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010102
abstract: To account for the phenomenon of quantum decoherence of a macroscopic object, such as the localization and disappearance of interference, we invoke the adiabatic quantum entanglement between its collective states(such as that of the center-of-mass (C.M)) and its inner states based on our recent investigation. Under the adiabatic limit that motion of C.M dose not excite the transition of inner states, it is shown that the wave function of the macroscopic object can be written as an entangled state with correlation between adiabatic inner states and quasi-classical motion configurations of the C.M. Since the adiabatic inner states are factorized with respect to each parts composing the macroscopic object, this adiabatic separation can induce the quantum decoherence. This observation thus provides us with a possible solution to the Schroedinger cat paradox

id: quant-ph/0010103
title: Quantum Gambling Using Two Nonorthogonal States
authors: W.Y. Hwang, D. Ahn, S.W. Hwang
comments: no essential correction, 4 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 064302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010103
abstract: We give a (remote) quantum gambling scheme that makes use of the fact that quantum nonorthogonal states cannot be distinguished with certainty. In the proposed scheme, two participants Alice and Bob can be regarded as playing a game of making guesses on identities of quantum states that are in one of two given nonorthogonal states: if Bob makes a correct (an incorrect) guess on the identity of a quantum state that Alice has sent, he wins (loses). It is shown that the proposed scheme is secure against the nonentanglement attack. It can also be shown heuristically that the scheme is secure in the case of the entanglement attack.

id: quant-ph/0010104
title: Decomposition of pure states of a quantum register
authors: Ioannis Raptis, Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: RevTeX, 3 pages, no figures, summary added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010104
abstract: Using the leading vector method, we show that any vector $h\in(C^2)^{\otimes l}$ can be decomposed as a sum of at most (and at least in the generic case) $2^l-l$ product vectors using local bitwise unitary transformations. The method is based on representing the vectors by chains of appropriate simplicial complex. This generalizes the Scmidt decomposition of pure states of a 2-bit register to registers of arbitrary length $l$.

id: quant-ph/0010105
title: Entangling ions in arrays of microscopic traps
authors: T. Calarco, J.I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, uses epsfig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010105
abstract: We consider a system of particles in an array of microscopic traps, coupled to each other via electrostatic interaction, and pushed by an external state-dependent force. We show how to implement a two-qubit quantum gate between two such particles with a high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0010106
title: Photon-photon correlations and entanglement in doped photonic crystals
authors: David Petrosyan, Gershon Kurizki
comments: Modified, expanded text; added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010106
abstract: We consider a photonic crystal (PC) doped with four-level atoms whose intermediate transition is coupled near-resonantly with a photonic band-gap edge. We show that two photons, each coupled to a different atomic transition in such atoms, can manifest strong phase or amplitude correlations: One photon can induce a large phase shift on the other photon or trigger its absorption and thus operate as an ultrasensitive nonlinear photon-switch. These features allow the creation of entangled two-photon states and have unique advantages over previously considered media: (i) no control lasers are needed; (ii) the system parameters can be chosen to cause full two-photon entanglement via absorption; (iii) a number of PCs can be combined in a network.

id: quant-ph/0010107
title: Evaluating quantum teleportation of coherent states
authors: Philippe Grangier, Frdric Grosshans
comments: 2 pages, no figure - related to quant-ph/0009079 - revised version, conclusion changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010107
abstract: We discuss the criteria for teleporting coherent states from simple considerations about information exchange during the teleportation process.

id: quant-ph/0010108
title: Spatial entanglement of twin quantum images
authors: Enrico Brambilla, Alessandra Gatti, Patrick Navez, Luigi A. Lugiato
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010108
abstract: We show that spatial entanglement of two twin images obtained by parametric down-conversion is complete, i.e. concerns both amplitude and phase. This is realised through a homodyne detection of these images which allows for measurement of the field quadrature components. EPR correlations are shown to exist between symmetrical pixels of the two images. The best possible correlation is obtained by adjusting the phase of the local oscillator field (LO) in the area of maximal amplification. The results for quadrature components hold unchanged even in absence of any input image i.e. for pure parametric fluorescence. In this case they are not related to intensity and phase fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0010109
title: Statistical Constraints on State Preparation for a Quantum Computer
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 7 pages; the final published version
journal: Pramana, vol. 57, pp. 683-688, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010109
abstract: Quantum computing algorithms require that the quantum register be initially present in a superposition state. To achieve this, we consider the practical problem of creating a coherent superposition state of several qubits. Owing to considerations of quantum statistics, this requires that the entropy of the system go down. This, in turn, has two practical implications: (i) the initial state cannot be controlled; (ii) the temperature of the system must be reduced. These factors, in addition to decoherence and sensitivity to errors, must be considered in the implementation of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0010110
title: Quantum-State Engineering of Multiple Trapped Ions for Center-of-Mass Mode
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Xi-Wen Zhu, Ke-Lin Gao
comments: 14 pages, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010110
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate a superposition with arbitrary coefficients on a line in phase space for the center-of-mass vibrational mode of N ions by means of isolating all other spectator vibrational modes from the center-of-mass mode. It can be viewed as the generation of previous methods for preparing motional states of one ion. For large number of ions, we need only one cyclic operatin to generate such a superposition of many coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0010111
title: Quantum cryptographic three party protocols
authors: J. Mueller-Quade, H. Imai
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010111
abstract: Due to the impossibility results of Mayers and Lo/Chau it is generally thought that a quantum channel is cryptographically strictly weaker than oblivious transfer. In this paper we prove that in a three party scenario a quantum channel can be strictly stronger than oblivious transfer. With the protocol introduced in this paper we can completely classify the cryptographic strength of quantum multi party protocols.

id: quant-ph/0010112
title: Temporary Assumptions for Quantum Multiparty Secure Computations
authors: J. Mueller-Quade, H. Imai
comments: 11 pages, major revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010112
abstract: This paper introduces quantum multiparty protocols which allow the use of temporary assumptions. We prove that secure quantum multiparty computations are possible if and only if classical multi party computations work. But these strict assumptions are necessary only during the execution of the protocol and can be loosened after termination of the protocol. We consider two settings: 1. A collusion of players tries to learn the secret inputs of honest players or tries to modify the result of the computation. 2. A collusion of players cheats in the above way or tries to disrupt the protocol, i.e., the collusion tries to abort the computation or leaks information to honest players. We give bounds on the collusions tolerable after a protocol has terminated and we state protocols reaching these bounds.

id: quant-ph/0010113
title: Realistic teleportation with linear optical elements
authors: C. Trump, D. Bruss, M. Lewenstein
comments: 3 pages + 3 figures (fig. with better resolution available from authors)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 279, 7 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010113
abstract: We calculate the highest possible information gain in a measurement of entangled states when employing a beamsplitter. The result is used to evaluate the fidelity, averaged over all unknown inputs, in a realistic teleportation protocol that takes account of the imperfect detection of Bell states. Finally, we introduce a probabilistic teleportation scheme, where measurements are made in a partially entangled basis.

id: quant-ph/0010114
title: Quantum State Discrimination
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: Contemporary Physics 2000, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010114
abstract: There are fundamental limits to the accuracy with which one can determine the state of a quantum system. I give an overview of the main approaches to quantum state discrimination. Several strategies exist. In quantum hypothesis testing, a quantum system is prepared in a member of a known, finite set of states, and the aim is to guess which one with the minimum probability of error. Error free discrimination is also sometimes possible, if we allow for the possibility of obtaining inconclusive results. If no prior information about the state is provided, then it is impractical to try to determine it exactly, and it must be estimated instead. In addition to reviewing these various strategies, I describe connections between state discrimination, the manipulation of quantum entanglement, and quantum cloning. Recent experimental work is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0010115
title: Classical Versus Quantum Ontology
authors: P. Busch
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX. Book Review
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys. 33B (2002) 517-539
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010115
abstract: This is an essay review of the book by D. Home: "Conceptual Foundations of Quantum Physics: An Overview from Modern Perspectives" (New York: Plenum Press, 1997), xvii+386 pp., ISBN 0-306-45660-5.

id: quant-ph/0010116
title: Quantum dynamical properties of a two-photon non-linear Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Guido Berlin, J. Aliaga
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 48, 1819 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010116
abstract: In this paper we study a two-photon time-dependent Jaynes-Cummings model interacting with a Kerr-like medium. We assumed that the electromagnetic field is in different states such as coherent, squeezed vacuum and pair coherent, and that the atom is initially in the excited state. We studied the temporal evolution of the population of the excited level, and the second order coherence function. The results obtained show that this system has some similarities with the two-mode Stark system. We analize two photon entanglement for different initial conditions.

id: quant-ph/0010117
title: Quantum Walk on the Line
authors: Ashwin Nayak, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0010117
abstract: Motivated by the immense success of random walk and Markov chain methods in the design of classical algorithms, we consider_quantum_ walks on graphs. We analyse in detail the behaviour of unbiased quantum walk on the line, with the example of a typical walk, the ``Hadamard walk''. We show that after t time steps, the probability distribution on the line induced by the Hadamard walk is almost uniformly distributed over the interval [-t/sqrt(2),t/sqrt(2)]. This implies that the same walk defined on the circle mixes in_linear_ time. This is in direct contrast with the quadratic mixing time for the corresponding classical walk. We conclude by indicating how our techniques may be applied to more general graphs.

id: cond-mat/0010043
title: Mechanism of magnetism in stacked nanographite: Theoretical study
authors: K. Harigaya
comments: PACS numbers: 75.30.-m, 75.70.Cn, 75.10.Lp, 75.40.Mg; E-mail: harigaya@etl.go.jp; this http URL
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter vol. 13 (2001) p. 1295-1302
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010043
abstract: Nanographite systems, where graphene sheets of the orders of the nanometer size are stacked, show novel magnetic properties, such as, spin-glass like behaviors and the change of ESR line widths in the course of gas adsorptions. We theoretically investigate stacking effects in the zigzag nanographite sheets by using a tight binding model with the Hubbard-like onsite interactions. We find a remarkable difference in the magnetic properties between the simple A-A and A-B type stackings. For the simple stacking, there are not magnetic solutions. For the A-B stacking, we find antiferromagnetic solutions for strong onsite repulsions. The local magnetic moments tend to exist at the edge sites in each layer due to the large amplitude of wavefunctions at these sites. Relations with experiments are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0010094
title: Environment-independent decoherence rate in classically chaotic systems
authors: Rodolfo A. Jalabert, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: No figures. Typos corrected and minor modifications to the text and references. Published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 86 (2001) p. 2490-2493
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010094
abstract: We study the decoherence of a one-particle system, whose classical correpondent is chaotic, when it evolves coupled to a weak quenched environment. This is done by analytical evaluation of the Loschmidt Echo, (i.e. the revival of a localized density excitation upon reversal of its time evolution), in presence of the perturbation. We predict an exponential decay for the Loschmidt Echo with a (decoherence) rate which is asymptotically given by the mean Lyapunov exponent of the classical system, and therefore independent of the perturbation strength, within a given range of strengths. Our results are consistent with recent experiments of Polarization Echoes in nuclear magnetic resonance and preliminary numerical simulations.

id: cond-mat/0010129
title: Adiabatic Inversion in the SQUID, Macroscopic Coherence and Decoherence
authors: P. Silvestrini, L. Stodolsky
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: "Macroscopic Quantum Coherence...'' Kluwer, 2001
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010129
abstract: A procedure for demonstrating quantum coherence and measuring decoherence times between different fluxoid states of a SQUID by using ``adiabatic inversion'' is discussed. One fluxoid state is smoothly transferred into the other, like a spin reversing direction by following a slowly moving magnetic field. This is accomplished by sweeping an external applied flux, and depends on a well-defined quantum phase between the two macroscopic states. Varying the speed of the sweep relative to the decoherence time permits one to move from the quantum regime, where such a well-defined phase exists, to the classical regime where it is lost and the inversion is inhibited. Thus observing whether inversion has taken place or not as a function of sweep speed offers the possibility of measuring the decoherence time. Estimates with some typical SQUID parameters are presented and it appears that such a procedure should be experimentally possible. The main requirement for the feasibility of the scheme appears to be that the low temperature relaxation time among the quantum levels of the SQUID be long compared to other time scales of the problem, including the readout time. Applications to the ``quantum computer'', with the level system of the SQUID playing the role of the qbit, are briefly examined.

id: cond-mat/0010366
title: Overview: Brownian Motion and Dephasing due to Dynamical Disorder
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010366
abstract: The motion of a particle under the influence of a dynamical disorder is described by the DLD model. One motivation is to understand the motion of an electron inside a metal; Another is to understand quantal Brownian motion. The overview is based on a research report for 1996-1998.

id: cond-mat/0010367
title: Overview: Energy Absorption by Driven Mesoscopic Systems
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010367
abstract: There are three regimes in the theory of energy absorption: The adiabatic regime, the linear-response (Kubo) regime, and the non-perturbative regime. The mesoscopic Drude formula for electrical conductance, and the wall formula for friction, can be regarded as special cases of the general formulation of the dissipation problem. The overview is based on a research report for 1998-2000.

id: cond-mat/0010440
title: Unpaired Majorana fermions in quantum wires
authors: Alexei Kitaev
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, Latex and epsf, to be included in the proceedings of the Mesoscopic And Strongly Correlated Electron Systems conference (9-16 July 2000, Chernogolovka, Moscow Region, Russia), one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010440
abstract: Certain one-dimensional Fermi systems have an energy gap in the bulk spectrum while boundary states are described by one Majorana operator per boundary point. A finite system of length $L$ possesses two ground states with an energy difference proportional to $\exp(-L/l_0)$ and different fermionic parities. Such systems can be used as qubits since they are intrinsically immune to decoherence. The property of a system to have boundary Majorana fermions is expressed as a condition on the bulk electron spectrum. The condition is satisfied in the presence of an arbitrary small energy gap induced by proximity of a 3-dimensional p-wave superconductor, provided that the normal spectrum has an odd number of Fermi points in each half of the Brillouin zone (each spin component counts separately).

id: cond-mat/0010449
title: States without linear counterpart in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Roberto D'Agosta, Carlo Presilla
comments: 6 pages, 5 eps figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 043609 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010449
abstract: We show the existence of stationary solutions of a 1-D Gross-Pitaevskii equation in presence of a multi-well external potential that do not reduce to any of the eigenfunctions of the associated Schroedinger problem. These solutions, which in the limit of strong nonlinearity have the form of chains of dark or bright solitons located near the extrema of the potential, represent macroscopically excited states of a Bose-Einstein condensate and are in principle experimentally observable.

id: cond-mat/0010462
title: New type of antiferromagnetic state in stacked nanographite
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 12 pages; this http URL
journal: Chemical Physics Letters vol. 340 (2001) p. 123-128
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010462
abstract: Nanographite systems, where graphene sheets of the orders of the nanometer size are stacked, show novel magnetic properties, such as, spin-glass like behaviors and the change of ESR line widths in the course of gas adsorptions. We theoretically investigate stacking effects in the zigzag nanographite sheets by using a tight binding model with the Hubbard-like onsite interactions. We find a remarkable difference in the magnetic properties between the simple A-A and A-B type stackings. For the simple stacking, there are not magnetic solutions. For the A-B stacking, we find antiferromagnetic solutions for strong onsite repulsions. The local magnetic moments tend to exist at the edge sites in each layer due to the large amplitude of wavefunctions at these sites. We study variations between the A-A and A-B stackings to find that the magnetism between the two stackings experiences the first order phase transition. The effect of the interlayer distance is also discussed.

id: cond-mat/0010505
title: Three-dimensional micro-electromagnet traps for neutral and charged particles
authors: M. Drndic, C.S. Lee, R.M. Westervelt
comments: 15 pages, 1 table, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0010505
abstract: Three-dimensional (3D) micro-electromagnets were developed to control particle motion in magnetic field landscapes in vacuum near a chip. Multiple layers of micron-scale conductors separated by transparent insulators create particle containers with deep, symmetric and time-dependent potentials, suitable for integration in quantum circuits. Single and coupled multiple 3D traps, integrated 3D traps with a mirror, 3D guides for neutral particles with spin, and traps for electrons in vacuum are described.

id: gr-qc/0010011
title: Optical noise correlations and beating the standard quantum limit in advanced gravitational-wave detectors
authors: Alessandra Buonanno, Yanbei Chen
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; minor changes, some references added
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.18:L95-L101,2001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0010011
abstract: The uncertainty principle, applied naively to the test masses of a laser-interferometer gravitational-wave detector, produces a Standard Quantum Limit (SQL) on the interferometer's sensitivity. It has long been thought that beating this SQL would require a radical redesign of interferometers. However, we show that LIGO-II interferometers, currently planned for 2006, can beat the SQL by as much as a factor two over a bandwidth \Delta f \sim f, if their thermal noise can be pushed low enough. This is due to dynamical correlations between photon shot noise and radiation-pressure noise, produced by the LIGO-II signal-recycling mirror.

id: hep-ex/0010040
title: Possible Observation of a Second Kind of Light
authors: R. Kuhne
comments: 2 pages, no figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0010040
abstract: According to classical electrodynamics, sunlight that is passed through an iron layer can be detected with the naked eye only if the thickness of the layer is less than 170nm. However, in an old experiment, August Kundt was able to see the sunlight with the naked eye even when it had passed an iron layer with thickness greater than 200nm. To explain this observation, we propose a second kind of light which was introduced in a different context by Abdus Salam. A tabletop experiment can verify this possibility.

id: hep-lat/0010002
title: Wigner Functions on a Lattice
authors: A. Takami, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: 11 pages, no figures, REVTEX
journal: Phys.Rev. A64 (2001) 032114
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-lat/0010002
abstract: The Wigner functions on the one dimensional lattice are studied. Contrary to the previous claim in literature, Wigner functions exist on the lattice with any number of sites, whether it is even or odd. There are infinitely many solutions satisfying the conditions which reasonable Wigner functions should respect. After presenting a heuristic method to obtain Wigner functions, we give the general form of the solutions. Quantum mechanical expectation values in terms of Wigner functions are also discussed.

id: hep-ph/0010019
title: q-Boson approach to multiparticle correlations
authors: D. V. Anchishkin, A. M. Gavrilik, N. Z. Iorgov
comments: 6 pages, revtex, 4 figures, to be published in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A15:1637-1646,2000
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0010019
abstract: An approach is proposed enabling to effectively describe, for relativistic heavy-ion collisions, the observed deviation from unity of the intercept \lambda (measured value corresponding to zero relative momentum {\bf p} of two registered identical pions or kaons) of the two-particle correlation function C(p,K). The approach uses q-deformed oscillators and the related picture of ideal gas of q-bosons. In effect, the intercept \lambda is connected with deformation parameter q. For a fixed value of q, the model predicts specific dependence of \lambda on pair mean momentum {\bf K} so that, when |{\bf K}|\gsim 500 - 600 MeV/c for pions or when |{\bf K}|\gsim 700 - 800 MeV/c for kaons, the intercept \lambda tends to a constant which is less than unity and determined by q. If q is fixed to be the same for pions and kaons, the intercepts \lambda_\pi and \lambda_K essentially differ at small mean momenta {\bf K}, but tend to be equal at {\bf K} large enough (|{\bf K}|\gsim 800MeV/c) where the effect of resonance decays can be neglected. We argue that it is of basic interest to check in the experiments on heavy ion collisions: (i) the exact shape of dependence \lambda = \lambda({\bf K}), and (ii) whether for |{\bf K}| \gsim 800 MeV/c the resulting \lambda_\pi and \lambda_K indeed coincide.

id: hep-ph/0010057
title: On the Significance of the Quantity "A Squared"
authors: F.V.Gubarev, L. Stodolsky, V.I. Zakharov
comments: 6 pages, one figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.86:2220-2222,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0010057
abstract: We consider the gauge potential A and argue that the minimum value of the volume integral of A squared (in Euclidean space) may have physical meaning, particularly in connection with the existence of topological structures. A lattice simulation comparing compact and non-compact ``photodynamics'' shows a jump in this quantity at the phase transition, supporting this idea.

id: hep-ph/0010092
title: Quest for the dynamics of $_{mu} \to _{tau}$ conversion
authors: A. M. Gago, E. M. Santos, W. J. C. Teves, R. Zukanovich Funchal
comments: 34 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D63:113013,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0010092
abstract: We perform a quantitative analysis of the capability of K2K, MINOS, OPERA and a neutrino factory in a muon collider to discriminate the standard mass induced vacuum oscillation from the pure decoherence solution to the atmospheric neutrino problem and thereby contribute to unravel the dynamics that governs the observed $\nu_mu$ disappearence.

id: hep-ph/0010108
title: A generalized Bell-Inequality and Decoherence for the K^0\bar{K^0}-System
authors: B. C. Hiesmayr
comments: 16 pages
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 14 (2001) 231-245
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0010108
abstract: First a generalized Bell-inequality for different times and for different quasi-spin states is developed. We focus on special quasi-spin eigenstates and times. The inequality based on a local realistic theory is violated by the CP-violating parameter, if the quantum theory is used to recalculate the probabilities. Next the quantum mechanical probabilities are modified by the decoherence approach which enables the initial state to factorize spontaneously. In this way we get a lower limit for the decoherence parameter \zeta, which measures the degree of decoherence. This result is compared with the experimental value of the decoherence parameter \zeta deduced from the data of the CPLEAR-experiment.

id: hep-ph/0010276
title: Neutral Kaons in Medium: Decoherence Effects
authors: A.A. Andrianov, R.Tarrach, J.Taron
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett. B507 (2001) 200-206
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0010276
abstract: We consider departures from hamiltonian dynamics in the evolution of neutral kaons due to their interactions with environment that generate entanglement among them. We propose a phenomenological model of stochastic re-scattering and estimate the coefficients of the effective hamiltonian and decoherence terms. Finally we analyze the interplay between the weak interaction and matter effects and propose the observables suitable to measure the matter characteristics of CPT violation and decoherence.

id: hep-th/0010013
title: Damped harmonic oscillators in the holomorphic representation
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 19 pages, plain-TeX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A33:8139,2000
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010013
abstract: Quantum dynamical semigroups are applied to the study of the time evolution of harmonic oscillators, both bosonic and fermionic. Explicit expressions for the density matrices describing the states of these systems are derived using the holomorphic representation. Bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom are then put together to form a supersymmetric oscillator; the conditions that assure supersymmetry invariance of the corresponding dynamical equations are explicitly derived.

id: hep-th/0010033
title: Duality and quasiparticles in the Calogero-Sutherland model: Some exact results
authors: Ivan Andric, Larisa Jonke
comments: RevTeX, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A65 (2002) 034707
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010033
abstract: The quantum-mechanical many-body system with the potential proportional to the pairwise inverse-square distance possesses a strong-weak coupling duality. Based on this duality, particle and/or quasiparticle states are described as SU(1,1) coherent states. The constructed quasiparticle states are of hierarchical nature.

id: hep-th/0010107
title: Jacobson generators, Fock representations and statistics of sl(n+1)
authors: T.D. Palev, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: LaTeX-file, 33 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.43:3850-3873,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010107
abstract: The properties of A-statistics, related to the class of simple Lie algebras sl(n+1) (Palev, T.D.: Preprint JINR E17-10550 (1977); hep-th/9705032), are further investigated. The description of each sl(n+1) is carried out via generators and their relations, first introduced by Jacobson. The related Fock spaces W_p (p=1,2,...) are finite-dimensional irreducible sl(n+1)-modules. The Pauli principle of the underlying statistics is formulated. In addition the paper contains the following new results: (a) The A-statistics are interpreted as exclusion statistics; (b) Within each W_p operators B(p)_1^\pm, ..., B(p)_n^\pm, proportional to the Jacobson generators, are introduced. It is proved that in an appropriate topology the limit of B(p)_i^\pm for p going to infinity is equal to B_i^\pm, where B_i^\pm are Bose creation and annihilation operators; (c) It is shown that the local statistics of the degenerated hard-core Bose models and of the related Heisenberg spin models is p=1 A-statistics.

id: hep-th/0010174
title: Smooth Loops, Generalized Coherent States and Geometric Phases
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Lev V. Sabinin
comments: LATeX file, 11 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 36 (1997) 1981-1989
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010174
abstract: A description of generalized coherent states and geometric phases in the light of the general theory of smooth loops is given.

id: hep-th/0010176
title: Critical Phenomenon of a Consistent q-Deformed Squeezed State
authors: Per Osland, Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, including 2 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 290 (2001) 45-52
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010176
abstract: Within a self-consistent framework of q-deformed Heisenberg algebra and its equivalent framework of q-deformed boson commutation relations, which relate to the under-cutting phenomenon of Heisenberg's minimal uncertainty relation, special q-deformed squeezed states are constructed. Besides the similar local maximum squeezing as the one in the undeformed case, new strong squeezing appears when the amplitude of the related coherent state increases to large values. A critical phenomenon appears at a large value of the amplitude: the variance of one component of the quadrature of the light field approaches zero, but the variance of the corresponding conjugate quantity remains finite, which is a surprising deviation from Heisenberg's uncertainty relation. The qualitative character exposed by this q-squeezed state may provide some evidence about q-deformed effects in current experiments.

id: hep-th/0010220
title: Non-Commutative Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Gamboa, M. Loewe, J.C. Rojas
comments: Minors corrections and some references removed. To appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev. D64 (2001) 067901
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010220
abstract: A general non-commutative quantum mechanical system in a central potential $V=V(r)$ in two dimensions is considered. The spectrum is bounded from below and for large values of the anticommutative parameter $\theta $, we find an explicit expression for the eigenvalues. In fact, any quantum mechanical system with these characteristics is equivalent to a commutative one in such a way that the interaction $V(r)$ is replaced by $V = V ({\hat H}_{HO}, {\hat L}_z)$, where ${\hat H}_{HO}$ is the hamiltonian of the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator and ${\hat L}_z$ is z- component of the angular momentum. For other finite values of $\theta$ the model can be solved by using perturbation theory.

id: hep-th/0010234
title: Clocks, computers, black holes, spacetime foam, and holographic principle
authors: Y. Jack Ng
comments: 3 LateX pages (2 columns); to appear in Proceedings of conference held at the Chinese University of Hong Kong (July 31 - August 4, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010234
abstract: What do simple clocks, simple computers, black holes, space-time foam, and holographic principle have in common? I will show that the physics behind them is inter-related, linking together our concepts of information, gravity, and quantum uncertainty. Thus, the physics that sets the limits to computation and clock precision also yields Hawking radiation of black holes and the holographic principle. Moreover, the latter two strongly imply that space-time undergoes much larger quantum fluctuations than what the folklore suggests --- large enough to be detected with modern gravitational-wave interferometers through future refinements.

id: hep-th/0010290
title: Space- and Time-Like Superselection Rules in Conformal Quantum Field Theory
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: Minor typos corrected, 13 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0010290
abstract: In conformally invariant quantum field theories one encounters besides the standard DHR superselection theory based on spacelike (Einstein-causal) commutation relations and their Haag duality another timelike (''Huygens'') based superselection structure. Whereas the DHR theory based on spacelike causality of observables confirmed the Lagrangian internal symmetry picture on the level of the physical principles of local quantum physics, the attempts to understand the timelike based superselection charges (associated with the center of the conformal covering group) in terms of timelike localized charges lead to a more dynamical role of charges outside the DR theorem and even outside the Coleman-Mandula setting. The ensuing plektonic timelike structure of conformal theories explains the spectrum of the anomalous scale dimensions in terms of phase factors in admissable braid group representations, similar to the explanation of the possible anomalous spin spectrum expected from stringlike d=1+2 fields with braid group statistics.

id: math-ph/0010009
title: Semi-classical motion of dressed electrons
authors: Stefan Teufel, Herbert Spohn
comments: Latex2e, 32 pages. Statement and proof of Lemma 11 clarified
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0010009
abstract: We consider an electron coupled to the quantized radiation field and subject to a slowly varying electrostatic potential. We establish that over sufficiently long times radiation effects are negligible and the dressed electron is governed by an effective one-particle Hamiltonian. In the proof only a few generic properties of the full Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian H_PF enter. Most importantly, H_PF must have an isolated ground state band for |p| < p_c <= \infty with p the total momentum and p_c indicating that the ground state band may terminate. This structure demands a local approximation theorem, in the sense that the one- particle approximation holds until the semi-classical dynamics violates |p|<p_c. Within this framework we prove an abstract Hilbert space theorem which uses no additional information on the Hamiltonian away from the band of interest. Our result is applicable to other time-dependent semi-classical problems. We discuss semi-classical distributions for the effective one-particle dynamics and show how they can be translated to the full dynamics by our results.

id: math-ph/0010017
title: Quadratic algebras :Three-mode bosonic realizations and applications
authors: V. SunilKumar, B. A. Bambah, R. Jagannathan
comments: 17 pages, Latex, Submitted to Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0010017
abstract: Quadratic algebras of the type $\lsb Q_0, Q_\pm \rsb$ $=$ $\pm Q_\pm$, $\lsb Q_+, Q_- \rsb$ $=$ $aQ_0^2 + bQ_0 + c$ are studied using three-mode bosonic realizations. Matrix representations and single variable differential operator realizations are obtained. Examples of physical relevance of such algebras are given.

id: math-ph/0010046
title: Bound states of infinite curved polymer chains
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX2e, 12 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 57 (2001), 87-96
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0010046
abstract: We investigate an infinite array of point interactions of the same strength in R^d, d=2,3, situated at vertices of a polygonal curve with a fixed edge length. We demonstrate that if the curve is not a line, but it is asymptotically straight in a suitable sense, the corresponding Hamiltonian has bound states. Example is given in which the number of these bound states can exceed any positive integer.

id: math-ph/0010049
title: How to relate the oscillator and Coulomb systems on spheres and pseudospheres?
authors: Armen Nersessian
comments: 12 pages, Based on talk given at XXIII Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (July 31-August 5, 2000, Dubna)
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl.65:1070-1075,2002; Yad.Fiz.65:1103-1108,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0010049
abstract: We show that the oscillators on a sphere and pseudosphere are related, by the so-called Bohlin transformation, with the Coulomb systems on the pseudosphere: the even states of an oscillator yields the conventional Coulomb system on pseudosphere, while the odd states yield the Coulomb system on pseudosphere in the presence of magnetic flux tube generating half spin. In the higher dimensions the oscillator and Coulomb(-like) systems are connected in the similar way. In particular, applying the Kustaanheimo-Stiefel transformation to the oscillators on sphere and pseudosphere, we obtained the preudospherical generalization of MIC-Kepler problem describing three-dimensional charge-dyon system.

id: nlin/0010038
title: Quantum correlations and classical resonances in an open chaotic system
authors: Wentao T. Lu, Kristi Pance, Prabhakar Pradhan, S. Sridhar
comments: 10 pages, 5 eps figures, "Quantum chaos Y2K" Nobel symposium, to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: Physica Scripta T90, 238-245 (2001)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0010038
abstract: We show that the autocorrelation of quantum spectra of an open chaotic system is well described by the classical Ruelle-Pollicott resonances of the associated chaotic strange repeller. This correspondence is demonstrated utilizing microwave experiments on 2-D n-disk billiard geometries, by determination of the wave-vector autocorrelation C(\kappa) from the experimental quantum spectra S_{21}(k). The correspondence is also established via "numerical experiments" that simulate S_{21}(k) and C(\kappa) using periodic orbit calculations of the quantum and classical resonances. Semiclassical arguments that relate quantum and classical correlation functions in terms of fluctuations of the density of states and correlations of particle density are also examined and support the experimental results. The results establish a correspondence between quantum spectral correlations and classical decay modes in an open systems.

id: nucl-th/0010050
title: At the edge of nuclear stability: nonlinear quantum amplifiers
authors: Attila Csoto
comments: 3 pages with 3 figures. The postscript file and more information are available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0010050
abstract: We show that nuclear states lying at the edge of stability may show enormously enhanced response to small perturbations. For example, a 0.1% change in the strength of the strong nucleon-nucleon interaction can cause almost a hundred times bigger change in the resonance energy of the 0+_2 state of 12C.

id: physics/0010003
title: On Wolfgang Pauli's most important contributions to physics
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: Opening lecture at the symposium: Wolfgang Pauli And Modern Physics, in honor of the 100th anniversary of Wolfgang Pauli's birthday, ETH (Zurich), May 4-6 2000; in German
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0010003
abstract: After some brief biographical notes, Wolfgang Pauli's main contributions to general relativity, quantum theory, quantum field theory, and elementary particle physics are reviewed. A detailed description is given how Pauli descovered - before the advent of the new quantum mechanics - his exclusion principle.

id: physics/0010031
title: Pathways to double ionization of atoms in strong fields
authors: Krzysztof Sacha, Bruno Eckhardt
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures; fig.6 and 7 exchanged in the final version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 043414 (2001).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0010031
abstract: We discuss the final stages of double ionization of atoms in a strong linearly polarized laser field within a classical model. We propose that all trajectories leading to non-sequential double ionization pass close to a saddle in phase space which we identify and characterize. The saddle lies in a two degree of freedom subspace of symmetrically escaping electrons. The distribution of longitudinal momenta of ions as calculated within the subspace shows the double hump structure observed in experiments. Including a symmetric bending mode of the electrons allows us to reproduce the transverse ion momenta. We discuss also a path to sequential ionization and show that it does not lead to the observed momentum distributions.

id: physics/0010038
title: Resummation of the Divergent Perturbation Series for a Hydrogen Atom in an Electric Field
authors: U. D. Jentschura
comments: 14 pages, RevTeX, 3 tables, 1 figure; numerical accuracy of results enhanced; one section and one appendix added and some minor changes and additions; to appear in phys. rev. a
journal: Phys.Rev. A64 (2001) 013403
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0010038
abstract: We consider the resummation of the perturbation series describing the energy displacement of a hydrogenic bound state in an electric field (known as the Stark effect or the LoSurdo-Stark effect), which constitutes a divergent formal power series in the electric field strength. The perturbation series exhibits a rich singularity structure in the Borel plane. Resummation methods are presented which appear to lead to consistent results even in problematic cases where isolated singularities or branch cuts are present on the positive and negative real axis in the Borel plane. Two resummation prescriptions are compared: (i) a variant of the Borel-Pade resummation method, with an additional improvement due to utilization of the leading renormalon poles (for a comprehensive discussion of renormalons see [M. Beneke, Phys. Rep. vol. 317, p. 1 (1999)]), and (ii) a contour-improved combination of the Borel method with an analytic continuation by conformal mapping, and Pade approximations in the conformal variable. The singularity structure in the case of the LoSurdo-Stark effect in the complex Borel plane is shown to be similar to (divergent) perturbative expansions in quantum chromodynamics.

