id: quant-ph/0011001
title: Quantum computing by pairing trapped ultracold ions
authors: Feng Mang, Zhu Xiwen, Gao Kelin, Shi Lei
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011001
abstract: The superpositional wave function oscillations for finite-time implementation of quantum algorithms modifies the desired interference required for quantum computing. We propose a scheme with trapped ultracold ion-pairs being qubits to diminish the detrimental effect of the wave function oscillations, and apply the scheme to the two-qubit Grover's search. It can be also found that the qubits in our scheme are more robust against the decoherence caused by the environment, and the model is scalable.

id: quant-ph/0011002
title: Quantum entanglement and classical separability in NMR computing
authors: Alexander R. Kessel, Vladimir L. Ermakov
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011002
abstract: In the discussion about the quantumness of NMR computation a conclusion is done that computational states are separable and therefore can not be entangled. This conclusion is based on the assumption that the initial density matrix of an individual molecule coincides with whole sample molecules distribution over single molecule energy levels. This means that quantum stochasticity is replaced by classical stochasticity. In the present paper it is shown, that quantum NMR computation can create genuine entangled states if initial system states are thermodynamical equilibrium ones. A separability analysis problem can arise when one interprets the readout signal from whole sample.

id: quant-ph/0011003
title: Quantum-limited linewidth of a good-cavity laser: An analytical theory from near to far above threshold
authors: Ulrike Herzog, J¨¢nos A. Bergou
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011003
abstract: The problem of the quantum-limited or intrinsic linewidth of a good-cavity laser is revisited. Starting from the Scully-Lamb master equation, we present a fully analytical treatment to determine the correlation function and the spectrum of the cavity field at steady state. For this purpose, we develop an analytical approximation method that implicitly incorporates the microscopic fluctuations of both the phase and intensity of the field, and, in addition, takes full account of the saturation of the nonlinear gain. Our main result is a simple formula for the quantum-limited linewidth that is valid from near to far above threshold and also includes the presence of thermal photons. Close to the threshold, the linewidth is twice as large as predicted by the standard phase-diffusion treatment neglecting intensity fluctuations, and even 50% above threshold the increase is still considerable. In general, quantum fluctuations of the intensity are present and continue to influence the linewidth as long as the photon-number distribution is not strictly Poissonian. This inherent relationship is displayed by a formula relating the linewidth and the Mandel Q-parameter. More than 100% above treshold the linewidth is found to be smaller than predicted by the standard treatment, since the simple phase-diffusion model increasingly overestimates the rate of phase fluctuations by neglecting gain saturation. In the limit of a very large mean photon number the expected perfectly coherent classical field is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0011004
title: Polynomial Heisenberg algebras and higher order supersymmetry
authors: David J. Fernandez C., Veronique Hussin
comments: 9 pages, latex, 3 postscript figures; talk given at the XXIII ICGTMP, Dubna (Russia) August 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011004
abstract: It is shown that the higher order supersymmetric partners of the harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian provide the simplest non-trivial realizations of the polynomial Heisenberg algebras. A linearized version of the corresponding annihilation and creation operator leads to a Fock representation which is the same as for the harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian

id: quant-ph/0011005
title: Polynomial procedure of avoiding multiqubit errors arising due to qubit-qubit interaction
authors: L. Fedichkin
comments: no figures
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing 1, 84 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011005
abstract: Recently proposed implementations of quantum computer suffer from unavoidable interaction between quantum bits depending upon data being written in them. Novel procedure of avoiding multiqubit errors arising due to uncontrollable qubit-qubit interaction by using addititonal intermediate qubits is proposed. It is shown that the scheme requires only polynomial increase in number of qubits and algorithmic steps.

id: quant-ph/0011006
title: Entanglement of coherent states and decoherence
authors: Radim Filip, Jaroslav Rehacek, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011006
abstract: A possibility to produce entangled superpositions of strong coherent states is discussed. A recent proposal by Howell and Yazell [Phys. Rev. A 62, 012102 (2000)] of a device which entangles two strong coherent coherent states is critically examined. A serious flaw in their design is found. New modified scheme is proposed and it is shown that it really can generate non-classical states that can violate Bell inequality. Moreover, a profound analysis of the effect of losses and decoherence on the degree of entanglement is accomplished. It reveals the high sensitivity of the device to any disturbances and the fragility of generated states.

id: quant-ph/0011007
title: The effect of multi-pair signal states in quantum cryptography with entangled photons
authors: Miloslav Dusek, Kamil Bradler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011007
abstract: Real sources of entangled photon pairs (like parametric down conversion) are not perfect. They produce quantum states that contain more than only one photon pair with some probability. In this paper it is discussed what happens if such states are used for the purpose of quantum key distribution. It is shown that the presence of "multi-pair" signals (together with low detection efficiencies) causes errors in transmission even if there is no eavesdropper. Moreover, it is shown that even the eavesdropping, that draws information only from these "multi-pair" signals, increases the error rate. Information, that can be obtained by an eavesdropper from these signals, is calculated.

id: quant-ph/0011008
title: Branch points in the complex plane and information loss in quantum systems at high level density
authors: I. Rotter
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011008
abstract: The mechanism of avoided level crossings in quantum systems is studied. It is traced back to the existence of branch points in the complex plane which influence the properties of resonance states as well as of discrete states. An avoided level crossing of two states causes not only an exchange of the two wave functions but, above all, correlations between them. The correlations play an important role at high level density since they cause the loss of information on the individual properties of the states.

id: quant-ph/0011009
title: N-fold Supersymmetry for a Periodic Potential
authors: Hideaki Aoyama, Masatoshi Sato, Toshiaki Tanaka, Mariko Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. B498 (2001) 117-122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011009
abstract: We report a new type of supersymmetry, "N-fold supersymmetry", in one-dimensional quantum mechanics. Its supercharges are N-th order polynomials of momentum: It reduces to ordinary supersymmetry for N=1, but for other values of N the anticommutator of the supercharges is not the ordinary Hamiltonian, but is a polynomial of the Hamiltonian. (For this reason, the original Hamiltonian is referred to as the "Mother Hamiltonian".) This supersymmetry shares some features with the ordinary variety, the most notable of which is the non-renormalization theorem. An N-fold supersymmetry was earlier found for a quartic potential whose supersymmetry is spontaneously broken. Here we report that it also holds for a periodic potential, albeit with somewhat different supercharges, whose supersymmetry is not broken.

id: quant-ph/0011010
title: Relativity of Entanglement
authors: W.Y. Hwang, J. Lee, D. Ahn, S.W. Hwang
comments: no essential correction, 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTex
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 42, 167 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011010
abstract: It has recently been suggested that various entanglement measures for bipartite mixed states do not in general give the same ordering even in the asymptotic cases [S. Virmani and M. B. Plenio, Phys. Lett. A {\bf 268}, 31 (2000)]. That is, for two certain mixed states, the order of the degree of entanglement depends on the measures. Therefore, incomparable pairs of mixed states which cannot be transformed to each other with unit efficiency by any combinations of local quantum operations and classical communications exist. We make an analogy of the relativity of the order of the degree of entanglement to the relativity of temporal orders in the special theory of relativity.

id: quant-ph/0011011
title: Classical analysis of correlated multiple ionization in strong fields
authors: Bruno Eckhardt, Krzysztof Sacha
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, proceedings of Nobel symposium on Quantum Chaos, Physica Scripta (in press)
journal: Physica Scripta T90, 185 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011011
abstract: We discuss the final stages of the simultaneous ionization of two or more electrons due to a strong laser pulse. An analysis of the classical dynamics suggests that the dominant pathway for non-sequential escape has the electrons escaping in a symmetric arrangement. Classical trajectory models within and near to this symmetry subspace support the theoretical considerations and give final momentum distributions in close agreement with experiments.

id: quant-ph/0011012
title: On the equivalence of the Langevin and auxiliary field quantization methods for absorbing dielectrics
authors: A. Tip, L. Knoll, S. Scheel, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011012
abstract: Recently two methods have been developed for the quantization of the electromagnetic field in general dispersing and absorbing linear dielectrics. The first is based upon the introduction of a quantum Langevin current in Maxwell's equations [T. Gruner and D.-G. Welsch, Phys. Rev. A 53, 1818 (1996); Ho Trung Dung, L. Kn\"{o}ll, and D.-G. Welsch, Phys. Rev. A 57, 3931 (1998); S. Scheel, L. Kn\"{o}ll, and D.-G. Welsch, Phys. Rev. A 58, 700 (1998)], whereas the second makes use of a set of auxiliary fields, followed by a canonical quantization procedure [A. Tip, Phys. Rev. A 57, 4818 (1998)]. We show that both approaches are equivalent.

id: quant-ph/0011013
title: Basic concepts in quantum computation
authors: Artur Ekert, Patrick Hayden, Hitoshi Inamori
comments: 37 pages, lectures given at les Houches Summer School on "Coherent Matter Waves", July-August 1999
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011013
abstract: Section headings: 1 Qubits, gates and networks 2 Quantum arithmetic and function evaluations 3 Algorithms and their complexity 4 From interferometers to computers 5 The first quantum algorithms 6 Quantum search 7 Optimal phase estimation 8 Periodicity and quantum factoring 9 Cryptography 10 Conditional quantum dynamics 11 Decoherence and recoherence 12 Concluding remarks

id: quant-ph/0011014
title: Indeterminate-length quantum coding
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011014
abstract: The quantum analogues of classical variable-length codes are indeterminate-length quantum codes, in which codewords may exist in superpositions of different lengths. This paper explores some of their properties. The length observable for such codes is governed by a quantum version of the Kraft-McMillan inequality. Indeterminate-length quantum codes also provide an alternate approach to quantum data compression.

id: quant-ph/0011015
title: Semiclassical dressed states of two-level quantum systems driven by nonresonant and/or strong laser fields
authors: A. Santana, J. M. Gomez Llorente, V. Delgado
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX. Final version to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B, 34 (2001) 2371
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011015
abstract: Analytical expressions for the semiclassical dressed states and corresponding quasienergies are obtained for a two-level quantum system driven by a nonresonant and/or strong laser field in a coherent state. These expressions are of first order in a proper perturbative expansion, and already contain all the relevant physical information on the dynamical and spectroscopic properties displayed by these systems under such particular conditions. The influence of the laser field parameters on transition frequencies, selection rules, and line intensities can be easily understood in terms of the quasienergy-level diagram and the allowed transitions between the different semiclassical dressed states.

id: quant-ph/0011016
title: The EPR Argument in a Relational Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Federico Laudisa
comments: 21 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters, vol. 14 (2) 2001, pp. 119-132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011016
abstract: It is shown that in the Rovelli relational interpretation of quantum mechanics, in which the notion of absolute or observer independent state is rejected, the conclusion of the ordinary EPR argument turns out to be frame-dependent, provided the conditions of the original argument are suitably adapted to the new interpretation. The consequences of this result for the `peaceful coexistence' of quantum mechanics and special relativity are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0011017
title: Comment on `Decomposition of pure states of a quantum register'
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 1 page, 2 columns REVTeX, v3 is small, but essential modification
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011017
abstract: I. Raptis and R. Zapatrin in the quant-ph/0010104 show possibility to express general state of $l$-qubits quantum register as sum at most $2^l-l$ product states. In the comment is suggested more simple construction with possibility of generalization for decomposition of tensor product of Hilbert spaces with arbitrary dimension $n$ (here simplicial complexes used in the article mentioned above would not be applied directly). In this case it is decomposition with $n^l-(n^2-n)l/2$ product states.

id: quant-ph/0011018
title: Optical Transition and Momentum Transfer in Atomic Wave Packets
authors: A. Zh. Muradyan, V. A. Poghosyan
comments: 6 pages, 10 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011018
abstract: It is shown that the population Rabi-floppings in a lossless two-level atom, interacting with a monochromatic electromagnetic field, in general are convergent in time. The well-known continuous floppings take place because the restricted choosing of initial conditions, that is when the atom initially is chosen on ground or excited level before the interaction, simultaneously having a definite value of momentum there. The convergence of Rabi-floppings in atomic wave-packet-states is a direct consequence of Doppler effect on optical transition rates (Rabi-frequencies): it gradually leads to ''irregular'' chaotic-type distributions of momentum in ground and excited energy levels, smearing the amplitudes of Rabi-floppings. Conjointly with Rabi-floppings, the coherent accumulation of momentum on each internal energy level monotonically diminishes too.

id: quant-ph/0011019
title: Quantum Multi-object Search Algorithm with the Availability of Partial Information
authors: Goong Chen, Zijian Diao
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011019
abstract: Consider the unstructured search of an unknown number l of items in a large unsorted database of size N. The multi-object quantum search algorithm consists of two parts. The first part of the algorithm is to generalize Grover's single-object search algorithm to the multi-object case and the second part is to solve a counting problem to determine l. In this paper, we study the multi-object quantum search algorithm (in continuous time), but in a more structured way by taking into account the availability of partial information. The modeling of available partial information is done simply by the combination of several prescribed, possibly overlapping, information sets with varying weights to signify the reliability of each set. The associated statistics is estimated and the algorithm efficiency and complexity are analyzed. Our analysis shows that the search algorithm described here may not be more efficient than the unstructured (generalized) multi-object Grover search if there is ``misplaced confidence''. However, if the information sets have a ``basic confidence'' property in the sense that each information set contains at least one search item, then a quadratic speedup holds on a much smaller data space, which further expedite the quantum search for the first item.

id: quant-ph/0011020
title: Characteristics of Quantum-Classical Correspondence for Two Interacting Spins
authors: J. Emerson, L.E. Ballentine
comments: New introduction, accepted in Phys Rev A (May 2001 issue), 12 latex figures, 3 ps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 052103 (2001); Erratum in PRA 64, 029901 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011020
abstract: The conditions of quantum-classical correspondence for a system of two interacting spins are investigated. Differences between quantum expectation values and classical Liouville averages are examined for both regular and chaotic dynamics well beyond the short-time regime of narrow states. We find that quantum-classical differences initially grow exponentially with a characteristic exponent consistently larger than the largest Lyapunov exponent. We provide numerical evidence that the time of the break between the quantum and classical predictions scales as log(${\cal J}/ \hbar$), where ${\cal J}$ is a characteristic system action. However, this log break-time rule applies only while the quantum-classical deviations are smaller than order hbar. We find that the quantum observables remain well approximated by classical Liouville averages over long times even for the chaotic motions of a few degree-of-freedom system. To obtain this correspondence it is not necessary to introduce the decoherence effects of a many degree-of-freedom environment.

id: quant-ph/0011021
title: Duality and Decoherence Free Subspaces
authors: David D. Song, Richard J. Szabo
comments: 14 pages LaTeX, 1 figure, uses epsf.tex; Typos corrected and some clarifying comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011021
abstract: Quantum error avoiding codes are constructed by exploiting a geometric interpretation of the algebra of measurements of an open quantum system. The notion of a generalized Dirac operator is introduced and used to naturally construct families of decoherence free subspaces for the encoding of quantum information. The members of the family are connected to each other by the discrete Morita equivalences of the algebra of observables, which render possible several choices of noiseless code in which to perform quantum computation. The construction is applied to various examples of discrete and continuous quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0011023
title: Quantum algorithms for solvable groups
authors: John Watrous
comments: 13 pages. Several corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011023
abstract: In this paper we give a polynomial-time quantum algorithm for computing orders of solvable groups. Several other problems, such as testing membership in solvable groups, testing equality of subgroups in a given solvable group, and testing normality of a subgroup in a given solvable group, reduce to computing orders of solvable groups and therefore admit polynomial-time quantum algorithms as well. Our algorithm works in the setting of black-box groups, wherein none of these problems can be computed classically in polynomial time. As an important byproduct, our algorithm is able to produce a pure quantum state that is uniform over the elements in any chosen subgroup of a solvable group, which yields a natural way to apply existing quantum algorithms to factor groups of solvable groups.

id: quant-ph/0011024
title: Raman Sideband Cooling in presence of Multiple Decay Channels
authors: G. Morigi, H. Baldauf, W. Lange, H. Walther
comments: 8 pages, 4 Figures. To appear in Optics Communications
journal: Opt. Comm. 187 (2001), Pages 171-177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011024
abstract: We have investigated the efficiency of pulsed Raman sideband cooling in the presence of multiple decay and excitation channels. By applying sum rules we identify parameter regimes in which multiple scattering of photons can be described by an effective wave vector. Using this method we determine the rate of heating caused by optical pumping inside and outside the Lamb-Dicke regime. On this basis we discuss also the efficiency of a recently proposed scheme for ground-state cooling outside the Lamb-Dicke regime [G. Morigi, J.I. Cirac, M. Lewenstein, and P. Zoller, Europhys. Lett. {\bf 39}, 13 (1997)].

id: quant-ph/0011025
title: Multiparticle entanglement and its experimental detection
authors: W. D¨¹r, J. I. Cirac
comments: 9 pages, no figures; submitted to The Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, special issue in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, Vol. 34, No. 35, 6837-6850 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011025
abstract: We discuss several aspects of multiparticle mixed state entanglement and its experimental detection. First we consider entanglement between two particles which is robust against disposals of other particles. To completely detect these kinds of entanglement, full knowledge of the multiparticle density matrix (or of all reduced density matrixes) is required. Then we review the relation of the separability properties of l-partite splittings of a state $\rho$ to its multipartite entanglement properties. We show that it suffices to determine the diagonal matrix elements of $\rho$ in a certain basis in order to detect multiparticle entanglement properties of $\rho$. We apply these observations to analyze two recent experiments, where multiparticle entangled states of 3 (4) particles were produced. Finally, we focus on bound entangled states (non-separable, non-distillable states) and show that they can be activated by joint actions of the parties. We also provide several examples which show the activation of bound entanglement with bound entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0011026
title: Classical behaviour of the Dirac bispinor
authors: Sarah B. M. Bell, John P. Cullerne, Bernard M. Diaz
comments: Notation tidied - no other changes, 39 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics Vol 30 No 1 (2000) 35-57
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011026
abstract: It is usually supposed that the Dirac and radiation equations predict that the phase of a fermion will rotate through half the angle through which the fermion is rotated, which means, via the measured dynamical and geometrical phase factors, that the fermion must have a half-integral spin. We demonstrate that this is not the case and that the identical relativistic quantum mechanics can also be derived with the phase of the fermion rotating through the same angle as does the fermion itself. Under spatial rotation and Lorentz transformation the bispinor transforms as a four-vector like the potential and Dirac current. Previous attempts to provide this form of transformational behaviour have foundered because a satisfactory current could not be derived.(14)

id: quant-ph/0011027
title: Possible peculiarities of synchrotron radiation in a strong magnetic field
authors: B.I. Lev, A.A. Semenov, C.V. Usenko
comments: 7 pages, no figures, Contribution to the 8-th Ukrainian Conference on Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion, Alushta, Crimea, 11-17 September, 2000
journal: Space Science and Technology [Kosmichna Nauka i Tehnologiya]. Appendix, 7, 84--88 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011027
abstract: Relativistic quantum effects on physical observables of scalar charged particles are studied. Possible peculiarities of their behavior that can be verified in an experiment can confirm several fundamental conceptions of quantum mechanics. For observables independent of charge variable, we propose relativistic Wigner function formalism that contains explicitly the measurement device frame. This approach can provide the description of charged particles gas (plasma). It differs from the traditional one but is consistent with the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. The effects that are connected with this approach can be observed in astrophysical objects - neutron stars.

id: quant-ph/0011028
title: Dipole Blockade and Quantum Information Processing in Mesoscopic Atomic Ensembles
authors: M. D. Lukin, M. Fleischhauer, R.Cote, L. M. Duan, D. Jaksch, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011028
abstract: We describe a technique for manipulating quantum information stored in collective states of mesoscopic ensembles. Quantum processing is accomplished by optical excitation into states with strong dipole-dipole interactions. The resulting ``dipole blockade'' can be used to inhibit transitions into all but singly excited collective states. This can be employed for a controlled generation of collective atomic spin states as well as non-classical photonic states and for scalable quantum logic gates. An example involving a cold Rydberg gas is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0011029
title: The Wigner Kernel of a Particle obtained from the Wigner Kernel of a Spin by Group Theoretical Contraction
authors: Jean-Pierre Amiet, Stefan Weigert
comments: 5 pages, Latex, Proceedings of the XIII International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics, 31 July - 5 August 2000, Dubna, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011029
abstract: The Moyal formalism for a particle can be derived from the Moyal formalism for a spin. This is done by contracting the group of rotations to the oscillator group. A new derivation is given for the contraction of the spin Wigner-kernel to the Wigner kernel of a particle.

id: quant-ph/0011030
title: Formal context for cryptographic models
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011030
abstract: To clarify what is involved in linking models to instruments, we adapt quantum mechanics to define models that display explicitly the points at which they can be linked to statistics of results of the use of instruments. Extending an earlier proof that linking models to instruments takes guesswork, we show: Any model of cryptographic instruments can be *enveloped*, nonuniquely, by another model that expresses conditions of instruments that must be met if the first model is to fit a set of measured outcomes. As a result, model A of key distribution can be enveloped in various ways to reveal alternative models that Eve can try to implement, in conflict with model A and its promise of security. A different enveloping model can help Alice and Bob by expressing necessities of synchronization that they manipulate to improve their detection of eavesdropping. Finally we show that models based on pre-quantum physics are also open to envelopment.

id: quant-ph/0011031
title: Comment on ``Manipulating the frequency entangled states by an acoutic-optical modulator''
authors: K.J. Resch, S.H. Myrskog, J.S. Lundeen, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures submitted to Phys. Rev A
journal: Physical Review A 64, 056101 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011031
abstract: A recent theoretical paper [1] proposes a scheme for entanglement swapping utilizing acousto-optic modulators without requiring a Bell-state measurement. In this comment, we show that the proposal is flawed and no entanglement swapping can occur without measurement.

id: quant-ph/0011032
title: Dynamical analysis of the buildup process near resonance
authors: Jorge Villavicencio, Roberto Romo
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol. 77, No. 3, 379 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011032
abstract: The time evolution of the buildup process inside a double-barrier system for off-resonance incidence energies is studied by considering the analytic solution of the time dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation with cutoff plane wave initial conditions. We show that the buildup process exhibits invariances under arbitrary changes on the system parameters, which can be successfully described by a simple and easy-to-use one-level formula. We find that the buildup of the off-resonant probability density is characterized by an oscillatory pattern modulated by the resonant case which governs the duration of the transient regime. This is evidence that off-resonant and resonant tunneling are two correlated processes, whose transient regime is characterized by the same transient time constant of two lifetimes.

id: quant-ph/0011033
title: Lorentz Invariant Superluminal Tunneling
authors: Partha Ghose, M. K. Samal
comments: 10 pages revtex, no figure, more discussions added, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 036620 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011033
abstract: It is shown that superluminal optical signalling is possible without violating Lorentz invariance and causality via tunneling through photonic band gaps in inhomogeneous dielectrics of a special kind.

id: quant-ph/0011034
title: Quantum key distribution via quantum encryption
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 Pages, No Figure. Final version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 024302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011034
abstract: A quantum key distribution protocol based on quantum encryption is presented in this Brief Report. In this protocol, the previously shared Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs act as the quantum key to encode and decode the classical cryptography key. The quantum key is reusable and the eavesdropper cannot elicit any information from the particle Alice sends to Bob. The concept of quantum encryption is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0011035
title: Entanglement and Extreme Spin Squeezing
authors: Anders Sorensen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minor changes in the presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4431 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011035
abstract: For any mean value of a cartesian component of a spin vector we identify the smallest possible uncertainty in any of the orthogonal components. The corresponding states are optimal for spectroscopy and atomic clocks. We show that the results for different spin J can be used to identify entanglement and to quantity the depth of entanglement in systems with many particles. With the procedure developed in this letter, collective spin measurements on an ensemble of particles can be used as an experimental proof of multi-particle entanglement

id: quant-ph/0011036
title: Quantum information theory
authors: M. A. Nielsen
comments: 259 pages, reformatted version of Dissertation submitted for the Doctor of Philosophy in Physics at the University of New Mexico, August 1998
journal: PhD Dissertation, The University of New Mexico (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011036
abstract: Quantum information theory is the study of the achievable limits of information processing within quantum mechanics. Many different types of information can be accommodated within quantum mechanics, including classical information, coherent quantum information, and entanglement. Exploring the rich variety of capabilities allowed by these types of information is the subject of quantum information theory, and of this Dissertation. In particular, I demonstrate several novel limits to the information processing ability of quantum mechanics. Results of especial interest include: the demonstration of limitations to the class of measurements which may be performed in quantum mechanics; a capacity theorem giving achievable limits to the transmission of classical information through a two-way noiseless quantum channel; resource bounds on distributed quantum computation; a new proof of the quantum noiseless channel coding theorem; an information-theoretic characterization of the conditions under which quantum error-correction may be achieved; an analysis of the thermodynamic limits to quantum error-correction, and new bounds on channel capacity for noisy quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0011037
title: An expectation value expansion of Hermitian operators in a discrete Hilbert space
authors: Roberth Asplund, Gunnar Bjork, Mohamed Bourenanne
comments: A mild update. In particular, I. D. Ivanovic's earlier derivation of the expansion is properly acknowledged. 16 pages, one PS figure, 1 table, written in RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011037
abstract: We discuss a real-valued expansion of any Hermitian operator defined in a Hilbert space of finite dimension N, where N is a prime number, or an integer power of a prime. The expansion has a direct interpretation in terms of the operator expectation values for a set of complementary bases. The expansion can be said to be the complement of the discrete Wigner function. We expect the expansion to be of use in quantum information applications since qubits typically are represented by a discrete, and finite-dimensional physical system of dimension N=2^p, where p is the number of qubits involved. As a particular example we use the expansion to prove that an intermediate measurement basis (a Breidbart basis) cannot be found if the Hilbert space dimension is 3 or 4.

id: quant-ph/0011038
title: Comment on "Foundations of quantum mechanics: Connection with stochastic processes"
authors: D. Alonso, J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011038
abstract: Recently, Olavo has proposed several derivations of the Schrodinger equation from different sets of hypothesis ("axiomatizations") [Phys. Rev. A 61, 052109 (2000)]. One of them is based on the infinitesimal inverse Weyl transform of a classically evolved phase space density. We show however that the Schrodinger equation can only be obtained in that manner for linear or quadratic potential functions.

id: quant-ph/0011039
title: Einselection and Decoherence from an Information Theory Perspective
authors: W. H. Zurek
comments: Proceedings of the Planck constant centenary meeting. Uses annalen.cls and fleqn.sty
journal: Annalen der Physik (Leipzig) 9 (5) 855 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011039
abstract: We introduce and investigate a simple model of conditional quantum dynamics. It allows for a discussion of the information-theoretic aspects of quantum measurements, decoherence, and environment-induced superselection (einselection).

id: quant-ph/0011040
title: Generalization of the entanglement of formation for multi-party systems
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Revtex, Revised Version -- introducing our physical idea and argument to define the generalization of the entanglement of formation for multi-party systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011040
abstract: We present the generalization of the entanglement of formation for three-party systems in a pure state. For three qubit system we derive out its explicit and closed expression which is a linear combination of the binary entropy functions with various arguments, and these arguments are clearly determined in terms of the components of state vector of three qubits. As a reasonable measure of entanglement, the main behaviors and elementary properties of this generalized entanglement of formation are showed through discussing some important and interesting examples. Moreover, we propose how to extend our definition to a mixed state in according to the familiar idea. Then, we suggest the generalization of the entanglement of formation for multi-party systems which is consistent with the regular definition for two-party systems and our definition for three-party systems.

id: quant-ph/0011041
title: Absorption by cold Fermi atoms in a harmonic trap
authors: Gediminas Juzeliunas, Marius Masalas
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011041
abstract: We study the absorption spectrum for a strongly degenerate Fermi gas confined in a harmonic trap. The spectrum is calculated using both the exact summation and also the Thomas-Fermi (TF) approximation. In the latter case, relatively simple analytical expressions are obtained for the absorption lineshape at large number of trapped atoms. At zero temperature, the approximated lineshape is characterized by a $(1-z^2)^{5/2}$ dependence which agrees well with the exact numerical calculations. At non-zero temperature, the spectrum becomes broader, although remains non-Gaussian as long as the fermion gas is degenerate. The changes in the trap frequency for an electronically excited atom can introduce an additional line broadening.

id: quant-ph/0011042
title: Hiding bits in Bell states
authors: Barbara M. Terhal, David P. DiVincenzo, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 4 pages RevTex, 1 figure, various small changes and additional paragraph on optics implementation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5807--5810 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011042
abstract: We present a scheme for hiding bits in Bell states that is secure even when the sharers Alice and Bob are allowed to carry out local quantum operations and classical communication. We prove that the information that Alice and Bob can gain about a hidden bit is exponentially small in $n$, the number of qubits in each share, and can be made arbitrarily small for hiding multiple bits. We indicate an alternative efficient low-entanglement method for preparing the shared quantum states. We discuss how our scheme can be implemented using present-day quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0011043
title: Reply to the comment on `` Manipulating the frequency-entangled states by an acoustic-optical modulator''
authors: B.-S Shi, Y.-K Jiang, G.-C Guo
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011043
abstract: In the paper [1], authors claim that the scheme for entanglement swapping using an acoustic-optical modulator [2] is flaw. In this reply, we show there is a trivial mistake in the scheme [2], but the main conclusion is still correct, that is, the acoustic-optical modulator can be used to manipulate the frequency-entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0011044
title: Ptolemyness of conventional program for microcosm investigations and alternative research program
authors: Yuri A. Rylov
comments: 30 pages. The paper is replaced in connection with a correction of a misprint
journal: printed in Russian in Fizicheskaya Mysl Rossii (Physical Thought of Russia), issue 1, 1-23, (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011044
abstract: It is shown that the conventional approach to microcosm investigations uses an incorrect supposition (incorrect space-time model) whose incorrectness is compensated by means of additional hypotheses, known as quantum mechanics principles. Such a conception reminds the Ptolemaic doctrine of celestial mechanics. Alternative research program, which uses a more correct space-time model and does not need additional hypotheses (quantum principles) for free explanations of quantum effects, is suggested. If the more correct space-time model were known in the beginning of XXth century, when research of microcosm started, quantum mechanics could develop in other way. The alternative research program appeared with a secular delay, because all this time the necessary mathematical technique was not available for researchers. Absence of necessary mathematical technique is connected with some prejudices which have been overcame at the construction of new conception of geometry and that of statistical description. Basic statements of the new mathematical technique and principles of its application in alternative research program are presented in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0011045
title: Quadrupole Contribution in Semiclassical Radiation Theory
authors: Bijan Saha
comments: 5 pages, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011045
abstract: Within the frame-work of semiclassical theory two-level approximation in atomic system has been considered. Model proposed by M.D. Crisp and E.T. Jaynes has been modified. It has been shown that the time-dependent frequency shift depends on the higher multipole moments, retained in the Taylor expansion of electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0011046
title: Quantum Algorithmic Entropy
authors: Peter Gacs
comments: 20 pages. Minor Tex problem corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 34:1--22, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011046
abstract: We extend algorithmic information theory to quantum mechanics, taking a universal semicomputable density matrix (``universal probability'') as a starting point, and define complexity (an operator) as its negative logarithm. A number of properties of Kolmogorov complexity extend naturally to the new domain. Approximately, a quantum state is simple if it is within a small distance from a low-dimensional subspace of low Kolmogorov complexity. The von Neumann entropy of a computable density matrix is within an additive constant from the average complexity. Some of the theory of randomness translates to the new domain. We explore the relations of the new quantity to the quantum Kolmogorov complexity defined by Vitanyi (we show that the latter is sometimes as large as 2n - 2log n and the qubit complexity defined by Berthiaume, Dam and Laplante. The ``cloning'' properties of our complexity measure are similar to those of qubit complexity.

id: quant-ph/0011047
title: Fidelity of a t-error correcting quantum code with more than t errors
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: 9 pages, ReVTeX4 beta 5. To be published in Phys. Rev. A. The lower bound is made tighter in version 4 and 5. All approximations in the first version are removed, and a lower bound for the average of the fidelity is given in the second version. A critical error is corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 022314 (2001); Erratum: Phys. Rev. A 66, 059901 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011047
abstract: It is important to study the behavior of a t-error correcting quantum code when the number of errors is greater than t, because it is likely that there are also small errors besides t large correctable errors. We give a lower bound for the fidelity of a t-error correcting stabilizer code over a general memoryless channel, allowing more than t errors. We also show that the fidelity can be made arbitrary close to 1 by increasing the code length.

id: quant-ph/0011048
title: Fejer average and the short term behaviors of a wave packet in infinite square well
authors: Quan-Hui Liu, Wei-Hong Qi, Li-Ping Fu, Bambi Hu
comments: Revtex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011048
abstract: The first two period behaviors of a quantum wave packet in an infinite square well potential is studied. First, the short term behavior of expectation value of a quantity on an equally weighted wave packet (EWWP) is in classical limit proved to reproduce the Fej'{e}r average of the Fourier series decomposition of the corresponding classical quantity. Second, in order to best mimic the classical behavior, a nice relation between number $N$ of stationary states in the EWWP with the average quantum number $n$ as $N\thickapprox \sqrt{n}$ is revealed. Third, since the Fej\'{e}r average can only approximate the classical quantity, it carries an uncertainty which in large quantum number case is almost the same as the quantum uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0011049
title: String Matching in ${\tilde O}(\sqrt{n}+\sqrt{m})$ Quantum Time
authors: H. Ramesh, V. Vinay
comments: 7 pages Latex2e file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011049
abstract: We show how to determine whether a given pattern p of length m occurs in a given text t of length n in ${\tilde O}(\sqrt{n}+\sqrt{m})$\footnote{${\tilde O}$ allows for logarithmic factors in m and $n/m$} time, with inverse polynomial failure probability. This algorithm combines quantum searching algorithms with a technique from parallel string matching, called {\em Deterministic Sampling}.

id: quant-ph/0011050
title: Optimal Creation of Entanglement Using a Two--Qubit Gate
authors: B. Kraus, J.I. Cirac
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011050
abstract: We consider a general unitary operator acting on two qubits in a product state. We find the conditions such that the state of the qubits after the action is as entangled as possible. We also consider the possibility of using ancilla qubits to increase the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0011051
title: Quantum Computation with Ballistic Electrons
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Gehan Amaratunga, Florin Udrea
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX4, 5 figures, uses epsf, latexsym, times
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. B15, 125 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011051
abstract: We describe a solid state implementation of a quantum computer using ballistic single electrons as flying qubits in 1D nanowires. We show how to implement all the steps required for universal quantum computation: preparation of the initial state, measurement of the final state and a universal set of quantum gates. An important advantage of this model is the fact that we do not need ultrafast optoelectronics for gate operations. We use cold programming (or pre-programming), i.e., the gates are set before launching the electrons; all programming can be done using static electric fields only.

id: quant-ph/0011052
title: Quantum Finite State Transducers
authors: R. Freivalds, A. Winter
comments: LaTeX2e, 14 pages, short version to appear in Proc. SOFSEM 2001. Requires cl2emult.cls and some packages
journal: Proc. SOFSEM 2001, pp. 233--242, Springer, Berlin 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011052
abstract: We introduce quantum finite state transducers (qfst), and study the class of relations which they compute. It turns out that they share many features with probabilistic finite state transducers, especially regarding undecidability of emptiness (at least for low probability of success). However, like their `little brothers', the quantum finite automata, the power of qfst is incomparable to that of their probabilistic counterpart. This we show by discussing a number of characteristic examples.

id: quant-ph/0011053
title: On the fidelity of two pure states
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: LaTeX2e, 8 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. and Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., vol. 34(35), pp 7095-7101, 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011053
abstract: The fidelity of two pure states (also known as transition probability) is a symmetric function of two operators, and well-founded operationally as an event probability in a certain preparation-test pair. Motivated by the idea that the fidelity is the continuous quantum extension of the combinatorial equality function, we enquire whether there exists a symmetric operational way of obtaining the fidelity. It is shown that this is impossible. Finally, we discuss the optimal universal approximation by a quantum operation.

id: quant-ph/0011054
title: Effect of symmetry breaking on level curvature distributions
authors: M. S. Hussein, C. P. Malta, M. P. Pato, A. P. B. Tufaile
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011054
abstract: We derive an exact general formalism that expresses the eigenvector and the eigenvalue dynamics as a set of coupled equations of motion in terms of the matrix elements dynamics. Combined with an appropriate model Hamiltonian, these equations are used to investigate the effect of the presence of a discrete symmetry in the level curvature distribution. An explanation of the unexpected behavior of the data regarding frequencies of acoustic vibrations of quartz block is provided.

id: quant-ph/0011055
title: NMR implementation of a building block for scalable quantum computation
authors: D.E. Chang, L.M.K. Vandersypen, M. Steffen
comments: published in Chem. Phys. Lett. 338 (4-6) (2001) pp. 337-344. Corrected statement above Eq. (4), added references, small changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011055
abstract: We report the implementation of the central building block of the Schulman-Vazirani procedure for fully polarizing a subset of two-level quantum systems which are initially only partially polarized. This procedure consists of a sequence of unitary operations and incurs only a quasi-linear overhead in the number of quantum systems and operations required. The key building block involves three quantum systems and was implemented on a homonuclear three-spin system using room temperature liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. This work was inspired by the state initialization challenges in current NMR quantum computers but also shines new light on polarization transfer in NMR.

id: quant-ph/0011056
title: Efficient Quantum Key Distribution Scheme And Proof of Its Unconditional Security
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, H. F. Chau, M. Ardehali
comments: Paper published in J. of Cryptology. Preprint version: 46 pages
journal: J. of Cryptology, 18, Number 2, (2005) 133-165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011056
abstract: We devise a simple modification that essentially doubles the efficiency of the BB84 quantum key distribution scheme proposed by Bennett and Brassard. We also prove the security of our modified scheme against the most general eavesdropping attack that is allowed by the laws of physics. The first major ingredient of our scheme is the assignment of significantly different probabilities to the different polarization bases during both transmission and reception, thus reducing the fraction of discarded data. A second major ingredient of our scheme is a refined analysis of accepted data: We divide the accepted data into various subsets according to the basis employed and estimate an error rate for each subset *separately*. We then show that such a refined data analysis guarantees the security of our scheme against the most general eavesdropping strategy, thus generalizing Shor and Preskill's proof of security of BB84 to our new scheme. Up till now, most proposed proofs of security of single-particle type quantum key distribution schemes have relied heavily upon the fact that the bases are chosen uniformly, randomly and independently. Our proof removes this symmetry requirement.

id: quant-ph/0011057
title: Optimal phase estimation and square root measurement
authors: M. Sasaki, A. Carlini, A. Chefles
comments: Latex, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011057
abstract: We present an optimal strategy having finite outcomes for estimating a single parameter of the displacement operator on an arbitrary finite dimensional system using a finite number of identical samples. Assuming the uniform {\it a priori} distribution for the displacement parameter, an optimal strategy can be constructed by making the {\it square root measurement} based on uniformly distributed sample points. This type of measurement automatically ensures the global maximality of the figure of merit, that is, the so called average score or fidelity. Quantum circuit implementations for the optimal strategies are provided in the case of a two dimensional system.

id: quant-ph/0011058
title: Creating Bell states and decoherence effects in quantum dots system
authors: X. X. Yi, G. R. Jin, D. L. Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 2figures, corrected some typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 63(2001)062307.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011058
abstract: We show how to improve the efficiency for preparing Bell states in coupled two quantum dots system. A measurement to the state of driven quantum laser field leads to wave function collapse. This results in highly efficiency preparation of Bell states. The effect of decoherence on the efficiency of generating Bell states is also discussed in this paper. The results show that the decoherence does not affect the relative weight of $|00>$ and $|11>$ in the output state, but the efficiency of finding Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0011059
title: Quantum-mechanical tunneling: differential operators, zeta-functions and determinants
authors: J.Casahorran
comments: 27 pages, RevTex
journal: Fortsch. der Phys. 50 (2002) 405-424
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011059
abstract: We consider in detail the quantum-mechanical problem associated with the motion of a one-dimensional particle under the action of the double-well potential. Our main tool will be the euclidean (imaginary time) version of the path-integral method. Once we perform the Wick rotation, the euclidean equation of motion is the same as the usual one for the point particle in real time, except that the potential at issue is turned upside down. In doing so, our double-well potential becomes a two-humped potential. As required by the semiclassical approximation we may study the quadratic fluctuations over the instanton which represents in this context the localised finite-action solutions of the euclidean equation of motion. The determinants of the quadratic differential operators are evaluated by means of the zeta-function method. We write in closed form the eigenfunctions as well as the energy eigenvalues corresponding to such operators by using the shape-invariance symmetry. The effect of the multi-instantons configurations is also included in this approach.

id: quant-ph/0011060
title: New optimal tests of quantum nonlocality
authors: Itamar Pitowsky, Karl Svozil
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 014102 (2001) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011060
abstract: We explore correlation polytopes to derive a set of all Boole-Bell type conditions of possible classical experience which are both maximal and complete. These are compared with the respective quantum expressions for the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) case and for two particles with spin state measurements along three directions.

id: quant-ph/0011061
title: The spinor equation for the electromagnetic field
authors: Baoxia Su
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011061
abstract: We develop a spinor equation of the electromagnetic field, which is equivalent to the Maxwell equation and has a similar form as the Dirac equation. The spinor is the very conjugate momentum of the vector potential in the Lagrangian mechanics. In this framework the electromagnetic field described by the spinor exhibits the SU(2) internal symmetry. The quantization and the problem of longinal and scalar photons are disscussed.

id: quant-ph/0011062
title: Symmetries and solutions of the three-dimensional Paul trap
authors: Michael Martin Nieto, D. Rodney Truax
comments: Opex2 LaTeX, 9 pages, 1 figure. Typos corrected
journal: Optics Express 2, 123-130 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011062
abstract: Using the symmetries of the three-dimensional Paul trap, we derive the solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for this system, in both Cartesian and cylindrical coordinates. Our symmetry calculations provide insights that are not always obvious from the conventional viewpoint.

id: quant-ph/0011063
title: On the units of bipartite entanglement: Is sixteen ounces of entanglement always equal to one pound?
authors: M. A. Nielsen
comments: 6 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General 34 (35): 6987-6995 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011063
abstract: In a good physical theory dimensionless quantities such as the ratio m_p / m_e of the mass of the proton to the mass of the electron do not depend on the system of units being used. This paper demonstrates that one widely used method for defining measures of entanglement violates this principle. Specifically, in this approach dimensionless ratios E(rho) / E(sigma) of entanglement measures may depend on what state is chosen as the basic unit of entanglement. This observation leads us to suggest three novel approaches to the quantification of entanglement. These approaches lead to unit-free definitions for the entanglement of formation and the distillable entanglement, and suggest natural measures of entanglement for multipartite systems. We also show that the behaviour of one of these novel measures, the entanglement of computation, is related to some open problems in computational complexity.

id: quant-ph/0011064
title: Introduction to quantum information theory
authors: M. A. Nielsen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011064
abstract: This is an expanded and revised text for a fifteen minute talk given at the University of Queensland Physics Camp, September 2000. The focus is on the goals and motivations for studying quantum information theory, rather than on technical results.

id: quant-ph/0011065
title: Sharp Quantum vs. Classical Query Complexity Separations
authors: J. Niel de Beaudrap, Richard Cleve, John Watrous
comments: 13 pages, change in title, improvements in presentation, and minor corrections. To appear in Algorithmica
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011065
abstract: We obtain the strongest separation between quantum and classical query complexity known to date -- specifically, we define a black-box problem that requires exponentially many queries in the classical bounded-error case, but can be solved exactly in the quantum case with a single query (and a polynomial number of auxiliary operations). The problem is simple to define and the quantum algorithm solving it is also simple when described in terms of certain quantum Fourier transforms (QFTs) that have natural properties with respect to the algebraic structures of finite fields. These QFTs may be of independent interest, and we also investigate generalizations of them to noncommutative finite rings.

id: quant-ph/0011066
title: Separable approximations of density matrices of composite quantum systems
authors: S. Karnas, M. Lewenstein
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011066
abstract: We investigate optimal separable approximations (decompositions) of states rho of bipartite quantum systems A and B of arbitrary dimensions MxN following the lines of Ref. [M. Lewenstein and A. Sanpera, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 2261 (1998)]. Such approximations allow to represent in an optimal way any density operator as a sum of a separable state and an entangled state of a certain form. For two qubit systems (M=N=2) the best separable approximation has a form of a mixture of a separable state and a projector onto a pure entangled state. We formulate a necessary condition that the pure state in the best separable approximation is not maximally entangled. We demonstrate that the weight of the entangled state in the best separable approximation in arbitrary dimensions provides a good entanglement measure. We prove in general for arbitrary M and N that the best separable approximation corresponds to a mixture of a separable and an entangled state which are both unique. We develop also a theory of optimal separable approximations for states with positive partial transpose (PPT states). Such approximations allow to decompose any density operator with positive partial transpose as a sum of a separable state and an entangled PPT state. We discuss procedures of constructing such decompositions.

id: quant-ph/0011067
title: Efficient Quantum Algorithms for Shifted Quadratic Character Problems
authors: Wim van Dam, Sean Hallgren
comments: LaTeX2e, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011067
abstract: We introduce the Shifted Legendre Symbol Problem and some variants along with efficient quantum algorithms to solve them. The problems and their algorithms are different from previous work on quantum computation in that they do not appear to fit into the framework of the Hidden Subgroup Problem. The classical complexity of the problem is unknown despite the various results on the irregularity of Legendre Sequences.

id: quant-ph/0011068
title: Information-Theoretic Description of No-go Theorem of a Bit Commitment
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu, Yoshie Chiba-Kohno
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, Revtex; v2: some improvements in explanation, linguistic errors are corrected, changed format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011068
abstract: We give a comprehensive and constructive proof of the no-go theorem of a bit commitment given by Mayers, Lo, and Chau from the viewpoint of quantum information theory. It is shown that there is a trade-off relation between information acquired by Bob during the commitment phase and the ability to change a commit bit by Alice during the opening phase. It is clarified that a protocol that is unbiased to both Alice and Bob cannot be, at the same time, secure against both parties. Fundamental physical constraints that govern this no-go theorem are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0011069
title: Quantum channel locally interacting with environment
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted to Phys. Rev. A, Brief Report
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 034301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011069
abstract: The quantum channel subject to local interaction with two-level environment is studied. The two-level environment is regarded as a quantum bit (qubit) as well as a pair of particles owned by Alice and Bob. The amount of entanglement initially shared by Alice and Bob is distributed among these three qubits due to the interaction. In this model, we show that the singlet fraction of the decohered quantum channel is uniquely determined by the distributed entanglement. When the decohered quantum channel is used under the standard teleportation scheme, the optimal teleportation fidelity is well understood by considering the remaining entanglement between environment and transmitted state.

id: quant-ph/0011070
title: The Bargmann representation for the quantum mechanics on a sphere
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: LaTeX
journal: J. Math. Phys., 42 (2001) 4138-4147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011070
abstract: The Bargmann representation is constructed corresponding to the coherent states for a particle on a sphere introduced in: K. Kowalski and J. Rembielinski, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 33, 6035 (2000). The connection is discussed between the introduced formalism and the standard approach based on the Hilbert space of square integrable functions on a sphere S^2.

id: quant-ph/0011071
title: Quantum Chaos and the Black Body Radiation
authors: Giulio Casati
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011071
abstract: We discuss a mechanical model which mimics the main features of the radiation matter interaction in the black body problem. The pure classical dynamical evolution, with a simple discretization of the action variables, leads to the Stefan- Boltzmann law and to the Planck distribution without any additional statistical assumption.

id: quant-ph/0011072
title: On the reversible extraction of classical information from a quantum source
authors: Howard Barnum, Patrick Hayden, Richard Jozsa, Andreas Winter
comments: 22 pages, Latex2e, journal version
journal: Proc. Roy. Soc. (Lond.) A (2001), vol 457, p2019-2039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011072
abstract: Consider a source E of pure quantum states with von Neumann entropy S. By the quantum source coding theorem, arbitrarily long strings of signals may be encoded asymptotically into S qubits/signal (the Schumacher limit) in such a way that entire strings may be recovered with arbitrarily high fidelity. Suppose that classical storage is free while quantum storage is expensive and suppose that the states of E do not fall into two or more orthogonal subspaces. We show that if E can be compressed with arbitrarily high fidelity into A qubits/signal plus any amount of auxiliary classical storage then A must still be at least as large as the Schumacher limit S of E. Thus no part of the quantum information content of E can be faithfully replaced by classical information. If the states do fall into orthogonal subspaces then A may be less than S, but only by an amount not exceeding the amount of classical information specifying the subspace for a signal from the source.

id: quant-ph/0011073
title: Quantum Cloning and Distributed Measurements
authors: Dagmar Bruss, John Calsamiglia, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042308 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011073
abstract: We study measurements on various subsystems of the output of a universal 1 to 2 cloning machine, and establish a correspondence between these measurements at the output and effective measurements on the original input. We show that one can implement sharp effective measurement elements by measuring only two out of the three output systems. Additionally, certain complete sets of sharp measurements on the input can be realised by measurements on the two clones. Furthermore, we introduce a scheme that allows to restore the original input in one of the output bits, by using measurements and classical communication -- a protocol that resembles teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0011074
title: Non-Markovian homodyne-mediated feedback on a two-level atom: a quantum trajectory treatment
authors: Jin Wang, H.M. Wiseman, G.J. Milburn
comments: Changed content, Added references and Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011074
abstract: Quantum feedback can stabilize a two-level atom against decoherence (spontaneous emission), putting it into an arbitrary (specified) pure state. This requires perfect homodyne detection of the atomic emission, and instantaneous feedback. Inefficient detection was considered previously by two of us. Here we allow for a non-zero delay time $\tau$ in the feedback circuit. Because a two-level atom is a nonlinear optical system, an analytical solution is not possible. However, quantum trajectories allow a simple numerical simulation of the resulting non-Markovian process. We find the effect of the time delay to be qualitatively similar to that of inefficient detection. The solution of the non-Markovian quantum trajectory will not remain fixed, so that the time-averaged state will be mixed, not pure. In the case where one tries to stabilize the atom in the excited state, an approximate analytical solution to the quantum trajectory is possible. The result, that the purity ($P=2{\rm Tr}[\rho^{2}]-1$) of the average state is given by $P=1-4\gamma\tau$ (where $\gamma$ is the spontaneous emission rate) is found to agree very well with the numerical results.

id: quant-ph/0011075
title: Entangled-State Lithography: Tailoring any Pattern with a Single State
authors: Gunnar Bjork, Luis L. Sanchez-Soto, Jonas Soderholm
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 86 (2001) 4516-4519
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011075
abstract: We demonstrate a systematic approach to Heisenberg-limited lithographic image formation using four-mode reciprocal binominal states. By controlling the exposure pattern with a simple bank of birefringent plates, any pixel pattern on a $(N+1) \times (N+1)$ grid, occupying a square with the side half a wavelength long, can be generated from a $2 N$-photon state.

id: quant-ph/0011076
title: Extended covariance under nonlinear canonical transformation in Weyl quantization
authors: T. Hakioglu
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011076
abstract: A theory of nonunitary-invertible as well as unitary canonical transformations is formulated in the context of Weyl's phase space representations. Exact solutions of the transformation kernels and the phase space propagators are given for the three fundamental canonical maps as fractional-linear, gauge and contact (point) transformations. Under the nonlinear maps a phase space representation is mapped to another phase space representation thereby extending the standard concept of covariance. This extended covariance allows Dirac-Jordan transformation theory to naturally emerge from the Hilbert space representations in the Weyl quantization.

id: quant-ph/0011077
title: Zeno and anti-Zeno effects for photon polarization dephasing
authors: A. G. Kofman, G. Kurizki, T. Opatrny
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 042108 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011077
abstract: We discuss a simple, experimentally feasible scheme, which elucidates the principles of controlling ("engineering") the reservoir spectrum and the spectral broadening incurred by repeated measurements. This control can yield either the inhibition (Zeno effect) or the acceleration (anti-Zeno effect) of the quasi-exponential decay of the observed state by means of frequent measurements. In the discussed scheme, a photon is bouncing back and forth between two perfect mirrors, each time passing a polarization rotator. The horizontal and vertical polarizations can be viewed as analogs of an excited and a ground state of a two level system (TLS). A polarization beam splitter and an absorber for the vertically polarized photon are inserted between the mirrors, and effect measurements of the polarization. The polarization angle acquired in the electrooptic polarization rotator can fluctuate randomly, e.g., via noisy modulation. In the absence of an absorber the polarization randomization corresponds to TLS decay into an infinite-temperature reservoir. The non-Markovian nature of the decay stems from the many round-trips required for the randomization. We consider the influence of the polarization measurements by the absorber on this non-Markovian decay, and develop a theory of the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in this system.

id: quant-ph/0011078
title: Quantum Strategy Without Entanglement
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Xiaodong Xu, Hui Li, Mingjun Shi, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011078
abstract: In this paper we quantize the Card Game. In the classical version of this game, one player (Alice) can always win with propability 2/3. But when the other player (Bob) is allowed to apply quantum strategy, the original unfair game turns into a fair and zero-sum game. Further more, the procedure in which Bob perform his quantum strategy does not include any ingredient of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0011079
title: Competition-induced shifts of spectral peaks in photon coincidence spectroscopy
authors: L. Horvath, B. C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 053812 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011079
abstract: We show that shifts in locations of two-photon coincidence spectral peaks, for a bichromatically-driven two-level atom passing through a single-mode cavity, are due to competition between excitation pathways for a Jaynes-Cummings system. We also discuss an analogous shift of (single-photon) spectral peaks for a driven three-level V-system, which demonstrates that competition between excitation pathways is also important in this simple system.

id: quant-ph/0011080
title: Quantum Computation with Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Barry C. Sanders, Benjamin T. H. Varcoe, Hubert de Guise
comments: 4 pages, version as it appears in conference proceedings
journal: Proceedings of IQC'01, ed. R. G. Clark, Rinton, Princeton NJ (2001) pp. 344-347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011080
abstract: By encoding a qudit in a harmonic oscillator and investigating the infinite limit, we give an entirely new realization of continuous-variable quantum computation. The generalized Pauli group is generated by number and phase operators for harmonic oscillators. We describe a physical realization in terms of modes in a microwave cavity, coupled via a standard Kerr nonlinearity.

id: quant-ph/0011081
title: Multiparticle Quantum Superposition and Stimulated Entanglement by Parity Selective Amplification of Entangled States
authors: Francesco De Martini, Giovanni Di Giuseppe
comments: 13 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011081
abstract: A multiparticle quantum superposition state has been generated by a novel phase-selective parametric amplifier of an entangled two-photon state. This realization is expected to open a new field of investigations on the persistence of the validity of the standard quantum theory for systems of increasing complexity, in a quasi decoherence-free environment. Because of its nonlocal structure the new system is expected to play a relevant role in the modern endeavor on quantum information and in the basic physics of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0011082
title: Diese verdammte quantenspringerei
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: LaTeX, 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys. 33 (2002), 387-411
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011082
abstract: It is argued that the conventional formulation of quantum mechanics is inadequate: the usual interpretation of the mathematical formalism in terms of the results of measurements cannot be applied to situations in which discontinuous transitions ("quantum jumps) are observed as they happen, since nothing that can be called a measurement happens at the moment of observation. Attempts to force such observations into the standard mould lead to absurd results: "a watched pot never boils". Experiments show both that this result is correct when the experiment does indeed consist of a series of measurements, and that it is not when the experiment consists of a period of observation: quantum jumps do happen. The possibilities for improving the formalism by incorporating transitions in the basic postulates are reviewed, and a satisfactory postulate is obtained by modifying a suggestion of Bell's. This requires a distinction between the external description of the whole of a physical system and internal descriptions which are themselves physical events in the system. It is shown that this gives correct results for simple unstable systems and for the quantum-jump experiments.

id: quant-ph/0011083
title: Teleportation: from probability distributions to quantum states
authors: M. Koniorczyk, T. Kiss, J. Janszky
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A (Math. Gen.)
journal: J. Phys A (Math. Gen.) vol. 34, pp. 6949-6955 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011083
abstract: The role of the off-diagonal density matrix elements of the entangled pair is investigated in quantum teleportation of a qbit. The dependence between them and the off-diagonal elements of the teleported density matrix is shown to be linear. In this way the ideal quantum teleportation is related to an entirely classical communication protocol: the one-time pad cypher. The latter can be regarded as the classical counterpart of Bennett's quantum teleportation scheme. The quantum-to-classical transition is demonstrated on the statistics of a gedankenexperiment.

id: quant-ph/0011084
title: Why am I me? and why is my world so classical?
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: LaTeX, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011084
abstract: This is an attempt to apply Nagel's distinction between internal and external statements to the interpretation of quantum mechanics. I propose that this distinction resolves the contradiction between unitary evolution and the projection postulate. I also propose a more empirically realistic version of the projection postulate. The result is a version of Everett's relative-state interpretation, including a proposal for how probabilities are to be understood. Based on a talk given at the 9th UK Foundations of Physics meeting in Birmingham on 12 September 2000.

id: quant-ph/0011085
title: Quantum Rate-Distortion Theory for I.I.D. Sources
authors: Igor Devetak, Toby Berger
comments: Latex, 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011085
abstract: We formulate quantum rate-distortion theory in the most general setting where classical side information is included in the tradeoff. Using a natural distortion measure based on entanglement fidelity and specializing to the case of an unrestricted classical side channel, we find the exact quantum rate-distortion function for a source of isotropic qubits. An upper bound we believe to be exact is found in the case of biased sources. We establish that in this scenario optimal rate-distortion codes produce no entropy exchange with the environment of any individual qubit.

id: quant-ph/0011086
title: The Observer in the Quantum Experiment
authors: Bruce Rosenblum, Fred Kuttner
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011086
abstract: A goal of most interpretations of quantum mechanics is to avoid the apparent intrusion of the observer into the measurement process. Such intrusion is usually seen to arise because observation somehow selects a single actuality from among the many possibilities represented by the wavefunction. The issue is typically treated in terms of the mathematical formulation of the quantum theory. We attempt to address a different manifestation of the quantum measurement problem in a theory-neutral manner. With a version of the two-slit experiment, we demonstrate that an enigma arises directly from the results of experiments. Assuming that no observable physical phenomena exist beyond those predicted by the theory, we argue that no interpretation of the quantum theory can avoid a measurement problem involving the observer.

id: quant-ph/0011087
title: Decoherence of a Pointer by a Gas Reservoir
authors: Michael Kleckner, Amiram Ron
comments: 41 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011087
abstract: We study the effect of the environment on the process of the measurement of a state of a microscopic spin half system. The measuring apparatus is a heavy particle, whose center of mass coordinates can be considered at the end of the measurement as approximately classical, and thus can be used as a pointer. The state of the pointer, which is the result of its interaction with the spin, is transformed into a mixed state by the coupling of the pointer to the environment. The environment is considered to be a gas reservoir, whose particles interact with the pointer. This results in a Fokker-Planck equation for the reduced density matrix of the pointer. The solution of the equation shows that the quantum coherences, which are characteristic to the entangled state between the probabilities to find the pointer in one of two positions, decays exponentially fast in time. We calculate the exponential decay function of this decoherence effect, and express it in terms of the parameters of the model.

id: quant-ph/0011088
title: Quantum interferometric optical lithography:towards arbitrary two-dimensional patterns
authors: Pieter Kok, Agedi N. Boto, Daniel S. Abrams, Colin P. Williams, Samuel L. Braunstein, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 063407 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011088
abstract: As demonstrated by Boto et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2733 (2000)], quantum lithography offers an increase in resolution below the diffraction limit. Here, we generalize this procedure in order to create patterns in one and two dimensions. This renders quantum lithography a potentially useful tool in nanotechnology.

id: quant-ph/0011089
title: A New Class of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians with Real Spectra
authors: F. Cannata, M. Ioffe, R. Roychoudhury, P. Roy
comments: 9 pages, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A281 (2001) 305-310
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011089
abstract: We investigate complex PT-symmetric potentials, associated with quasi-exactly solvable non-hermitian models involving polynomials and a class of rational functions. We also look for special solutions of intertwining relations of SUSY Quantum Mechanics providing a partnership between a real and a complex PT-symmetric potential of the kind mentioned above. We investigate conditions sufficient to ensure the reality of the full spectrum or, for the quasi-exactly solvable systems, the reality of the energy of the finite number of levels.

id: quant-ph/0011090
title: Schr?dinger cat state of trapped ions in harmonic and anharmonic oscillator traps
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: Revised version, 16 pages,6 figures. Revtex
journal: J.Phys. B35 (2002) 1643
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011090
abstract: We examine the time evolution of a two level ion interacting with a light field in harmonic oscillator trap and in a trap with anharmonicities. The anharmonicities of the trap are quantified in terms of the deformation parameter $\tau $ characterizing the q-analog of the harmonic oscillator trap. Initially the ion is prepared in a Schr\"{o}dinger cat state. The entanglement of the center of mass motional states and the internal degrees of freedom of the ion results in characteristic collapse and revival pattern. We calculate numerically the population inversion I(t), quasi-probabilities $Q(t),$ and partial mutual quantum entropy S(P), for the system as a function of time. Interestingly, small deformations of the trap enhance the contrast between population inversion collapse and revival peaks as compared to the zero deformation case. For \beta =3 and $4,(% \beta $ determines the average number of trap quanta linked to center of mass motion) the best collapse and revival sequence is obtained for \tau =0.0047 and \tau =0.004 respectively. For large values of \tau decoherence sets in accompanied by loss of amplitude of population inversion and for \tau \sim 0.1 the collapse and revival phenomenon disappear. Each collapse or revival of population inversion is characterized by a peak in S(P) versus t plot. During the transition from collapse to revival and vice-versa we have minimum mutual entropy value that is S(P)=0. Successive revival peaks show a lowering of the local maximum point indicating a dissipative irreversible change in the ionic state. Improved definition of collapse and revival pattern as the anharminicity of the trapping potential increases is also reflected in the Quasi- probability versus t plots.

id: quant-ph/0011091
title: Bounds on the generalized entanglement of formation for multi-party systems
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011091
abstract: We present a general method to find the upper and lower bounds on the generalized entanglement of formation for multi-party systems. The upper and lower bounds can be expressed in terms of the bi-partite entanglements of formation and/or entropies of various subsystems. The examples for tri- and four-party systems in the both pure states and mixed states are given. We also suggest a little modified definition of generalized entanglement of formation for multi-party systems if EPR pairs are thought of belonging to the set of maximally entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0011092
title: Selecting molecules in the vibrational and rotational ground state by deflection
authors: P. Domokos, T. Kiss, J. Janszky
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX. To appear in the European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011092
abstract: A beam of diatomic molecules scattered off a standing wave laser mode splits according to the rovibrational quantum state of the molecules. Our numerical calculation shows that single state resolution can be achieved by properly tuned, monochromatic light. The proposed scheme allows for selecting non-vibrating and non-rotating molecules from a thermal beam, implementing a laser Maxwell's demon to prepare a rovibrationally cold molecular ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0011093
title: Quantum Jacobi fields in Hamiltonian mechanics
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011093
abstract: Jacobi fields of classical solutions of a Hamiltonian mechanical system are quantized in the framework of vertical-extended Hamiltonian formalism. Quantum Jacobi fields characterize quantum transitions between classical solutions.

id: quant-ph/0011094
title: Experimental Test of Complementarity by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Techniques
authors: Xiwen Zhu, Ximing Fang, Xinhua Peng, Mang Feng, Kelin Gao, Fei Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011094
abstract: We have tested complementarity for the ensemble-averaged spin states of nuclei $^{13}$C in the molecule of $^{13}$CHCl$_{3}$ by the use of the spin states of another nuclei $^{1}$H as the path marker. It turns out that the wave-particle duality holds when one merely measures the probability density of quantum states, and that the wave- and particle-like behavior is simultaneously observed with the help of measuring populations and coherence in a single nuclear magnetic resonance(NMR) experiment. Effects of path-marking schemes and causes of the appearance and disappearance of the wave behavior are analysed.

id: quant-ph/0011095
title: On the LOCC Classification of Bipartite Density Matrices
authors: Patrick Hayden, Barbara M. Terhal, Armin Uhlmann
comments: 11 pages RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011095
abstract: We provide a unifying framework for exact, probabilistic, and approximate conversions by local operations and classical communication (LOCC) between bipartite states. This framework allows us to formulate necessary and sufficient conditions for LOCC conversions from pure states to mixed states and it provides necessary conditions for LOCC conversions between mixed states. The central idea is the introduction of convex sets for exact, probabilistic, and approximate conversions, which are closed under LOCC operations and which are largely characterized by simple properties of pure states.

id: quant-ph/0011096
title: su(2) and su(1,1) displaced number states and their nonclassical properties
authors: Hongchen Fu, Xiaoguang Wang, Chong Li, Jiangong Wang
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B, 14(30)(2000)1099-1108.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011096
abstract: We study su(2) and su(1,1) displaced number states. Those states are eigenstates of density-dependent interaction systems of quantized radiation field with classical current. Those states are intermediate states interpolating between number and displaced number states. Their photon number distribution, statistical and squeezing properties are studied in detail. It is show that these states exhibit strong nonclassical properties.

id: quant-ph/0011097
title: Stochastic description for open quantum systems
authors: Esteban Calzetta, Albert Roura, Enric Verdaguer
comments: 16 pages, RevTeX, 1 figure (uses epsf.sty). Shortened version. Partially rewritten to emphasize those aspects which are new. Some references added
journal: Physica A319 (2003) 188-212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011097
abstract: A linear open quantum system consisting of a harmonic oscillator linearly coupled to an infinite set of independent harmonic oscillators is considered; these oscillators have a general spectral density function and are initially in a Gaussian state. Using the influence functional formalism a formal Langevin equation can be introduced to describe the system's fully quantum properties even beyond the semiclassical regime. It is shown that the reduced Wigner function for the system is exactly the formal distribution function resulting from averaging both over the initial conditions and the stochastic source of the formal Langevin equation. The master equation for the reduced density matrix is then obtained in the same way a Fokker-Planck equation can always be derived from a Langevin equation characterizing a stochastic process. We also show that a subclass of quantum correlation functions for the system can be deduced within the stochastic description provided by the Langevin equation. It is emphasized that when the system is not Markovian more information can be extracted from the Langevin equation than from the master equation.

id: quant-ph/0011098
title: Giant Radiative Interactions Among Distant Atoms
authors: G. S. Agarwal, S. Dutta Gupta
comments: 4 figures included in the postscript file, to appear in "Current trens in Atomic and Molecular Physics", edited by R. Srivastava (Phoenix publishing House, New Delhi, India, 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011098
abstract: We examine the feasibility of enhancing the fundamental radiative interactions between distant atoms. We present general arguments for producing enhancement. In particular, we show how giant dipole-dipole interaction can be produced by considering dipoles placed close to micron sized silica spheres. The giant interaction arises as the whispering gallery modes can resonantly couple the dipoles.

id: quant-ph/0011099
title: On the level spacing distribution in quantum graphs
authors: F. Barra, P. Gaspard
comments: 33 pages and 11 figures
journal: J. Stat. Phys. vol 101, pag. 283 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011099
abstract: We derive a formula for the level spacing probability distribution in quantum graphs. We apply it to simple examples and we discuss its relation with previous work and its possible application in more general cases. Moreover, we derive an exact and explicit formula for the level spacing distribution of integrable quantum graphs.

id: quant-ph/0011100
title: Slow-light pulses in moving media
authors: J. Fiurasek, U. Leonhardt, R. Parentani
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 011802
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011100
abstract: Slow light in moving media reaches a paradoxical regime when the flow speed of the medium approaches the group velocity of light. Pulses can penetrate a region where a counter-propagating flow exceeds the group velocity. When the counter-flow slows down pulses are reflected.

id: quant-ph/0011101
title: Schrodinger's Cataplex
authors: Thomas Curtright
comments: 10 pp Scientific Workplace Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011101
abstract: We discuss elementary entwiners that cross-weave the variables of certain integrable models: Liouville, sine-Gordon, and sinh-Gordon field theories in two-dimensional spacetime, and their quantum mechanical reductions. First we define a complex time parameter that varies from one energy-shell to another. Then we explain how field propagators can be simply expressed in terms of elementary functions through the combination of an evolution in this complex time and a duality transformation.

id: quant-ph/0011102
title: Tunable whispering gallery modes for spectroscopy and CQED experiments
authors: Wolf von Klitzing, Romain Long, Vladimir S. Ilchenko, Jean Hare, Valerie Lefevre-Seguin
comments: ReVTeX, 16 pages, 9 color figures
journal: New Journal of Physics : 141-1414 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011102
abstract: We have tuned the whispering gallery modes of a fused silica micro- resonator over nearly 1 nm at 800 nm, i.e.over half of a free spectral range or the equivalent of 10^6 linewidths of the resonator.This has been achieved by a new method based on the stretching of a two-stem microsphere.The devices described below will permit new Cavity-QED experiments with this ultra high .nesse optical resonator when it is desirable to optimise its coupling to emitters with given transition frequencies. The tuning capability demonstrated is compatible with both UHV and low temperature operation which should be useful for future experiments with laser cooled atoms or single quantum dots.A general overview of the current state of the art in microspheres is given as well as a more general introduction.

id: quant-ph/0011103
title: Approximate Decoherence of Histories and 't Hooft's Deterministic Quantum Theory
authors: J. J. Halliwell
comments: 41 pages, plain Tex
journal: Phys.Rev. D63 (2001) 085013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011103
abstract: This paper explores the possibility that an exactly decoherent set of histories may be constructed from an approximately decoherent set by small distortions of the operators characterizing the histories. In particular, for the case of histories of positions and momenta, this is achieved by doubling the set of operators and then finding, amongst this enlarged set, new position and momentum operators which commute, so decohere exactly, and which are ``close'' to the original operators. The enlarged, exactly decoherent, theory has the same classical dynamics as the original one, and coincides with the so-called deterministic quantum theories of the type recently studied by 't Hooft. These results suggest that the comparison of standard and deterministic quantum theories may provide an alternative method of characterizing emergent classicality. A side-product is the surprising result that histories of momenta in the quantum Brownian motion model (for the free particle in the high-temperature limit) are exactly decoherent.

id: quant-ph/0011104
title: On the mystery of quantum probabilistic rule: trigonometric and hyperbolic probabilistic behaviours
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011104
abstract: We demonstrate the quantum probabilistic rule (which differ from classical Bayes' formula by the cosinus factor) can be obtained on purely classical basis as a consequence of the perturbation effect of preparation procedures. In any case the interference can be easily simulated for macrosystems. Moreover, we obtain the classification of all possible transformations of probablities which can arise via perturbation effects. There are two main transformation classes: with trigonometric and hyperbolic ("interference") perturbations of classical Bayes' formula. Quantum probabilistic rule is just a particular case of trigonometric probablistic behaviour. Hyperbolic probablistic behaviour can be easily simulated. However, the question of its observation for "real physical phenomena" is open.

id: quant-ph/0011105
title: Dynamical diffraction in sinusoidal potentials: uniform approximations for Mathieu functions
authors: Duncan H. J. O'Dell
comments: 36 pages, 16 figures. This updated version includes important references to existing work on uniform approximations, such as Olver's method applied to the modified Mathieu equation. It is emphasised that the paper presented here pertains to Fourier space uniform approximations
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34, 3897 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011105
abstract: Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of Mathieu's equation are found in the short wavelength limit using a uniform approximation (method of comparison with a `known' equation having the same classical turning point structure) applied in Fourier space. The uniform approximation used here relies upon the fact that by passing into Fourier space the Mathieu equation can be mapped onto the simpler problem of a double well potential. The resulting eigenfunctions (Bloch waves), which are uniformly valid for all angles, are then used to describe the semiclassical scattering of waves by potentials varying sinusoidally in one direction. In such situations, for instance in the diffraction of atoms by gratings made of light, it is common to make the Raman-Nath approximation which ignores the motion of the atoms inside the grating. When using the eigenfunctions no such approximation is made so that the dynamical diffraction regime (long interaction time) can be explored.

id: quant-ph/0011106
title: On 1-qubit channels
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: 12 pages, several printing or latex errors corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34 (2001) 7047 - 7055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011106
abstract: The entropy H_T(rho) of a state rho with respect to a channel T and the Holevo capacity of the channel require the solution of difficult variational problems. For a class of 1-qubit channels, which contains all the extremal ones, the problem can be significantly simplified by associating an Hermitian antilinear operator theta to every channel of the considered class. The concurrence of the channel can be expressed by theta and turns out to be a flat roof. This allows to write down an explicit expression for H_T. Its maximum would give the Holevo (1-shot) capacity.

id: quant-ph/0011107
title: Loading of a Bose-Einstein condensate in the boson-accumulation regime
authors: F. Floegel, L. Santos, M. Lewenstein
comments: 7 pages, 5 eps figures, uses epl.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011107
abstract: We study the optical loading of a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate by spontaneous emission of atoms in excited electronic state in the Boson-Accumulation Regime. We generalize the previous simplified analysis of ref. [Phys. Rev. A 53, 2466 (1996)], to a 3D case in which more than one trap level of the excited state trap is considered. By solving the corresponding quantum many-body master equation, we demonstrate that also for this general situation the photon reabsorption can help to increase the condensate fraction. Such effect could be employed to realize a continuous atom laser, and to overcome condensate losses.

id: quant-ph/0011108
title: Local Realistic Theories and Quantum Mechanics for the two-neutral-kaon system
authors: R. H. Dalitz, G. Garbarino
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nucl.Phys. B606 (2001) 483
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011108
abstract: The predictions of local realistic theories for the observables concerning the evolution of a $K^0\bar{K}^0$ quantum entangled pair (created in the decay of the $\phi$-meson) are discussed. It is shown, in agreement with Bell's theorem, that the most general local hidden-variable model fails in reproducing the whole set of quantum-mechanical joint probabilities. We achieve these conclusion by employing two different approaches. In a first one the local realistic observables are deduced from the most general premises concerning locality and realism, and Bell-like inequalities are not employed. The other approach makes use of Bell's inequalities. Within the former scheme, under particular conditions for the detection times, the discrepancy between quantum mechanics and local realism for the time-dependent asymmetry turns out to be not less than 20%. The same incompatibility can be made evident by means of a Bell-type test by employing both Wigner's and (once properly normalized probabilities are used) Clauser-Holt-Shimony-Holt's inequalities. Because of the relatively low experimental accuracy, the data obtained by the CPLEAR collaboration for the asymmetry parameter do not allow for a decisive test of local realism. Such a test, both with and without the use of Bell's inequalities, should be feasible in the future at the Frascati $\Phi$-factory.

id: quant-ph/0011109
title: An Exponentially Fast Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Goong Chen, Zijian Diao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011109
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors.

id: quant-ph/0011110
title: Maximally entangled mixed states of two qubits
authors: Frank Verstraete, Koenraad Audenaert, Tijl De Bie, Bart De Moor
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A (\bf 64), 012316 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011110
abstract: We consider mixed states of two qubits and show under which global unitary operations their entanglement is maximized. This leads to a class of states that is a generalization of the Bell states. Three measures of entanglement are considered: entanglement of formation, negativity and relative entropy of entanglement. Surprisingly all states that maximize one measure also maximize the others. We will give a complete characterization of these generalized Bell states and prove that these states for fixed eigenvalues are all equivalent under local unitary transformations. We will furthermore characterize all nearly entangled states closest to the maximally mixed state and derive a new lower bound on the volume of separable mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0011111
title: Local filtering operations on two qubits
authors: Frank Verstraete, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A (\bf 64), 010101(R) (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011111
abstract: We consider one single copy of a mixed state of two qubits and investigate how its entanglement changes under local quantum operations and classical communications (LQCC) of the type $\rho'\sim (A\otimes B)\rho(A\otimes B)^{\dagger}$. We consider a real matrix parameterization of the set of density matrices and show that these LQCC operations correspond to left and right multiplication by a Lorentz matrix, followed by normalization. A constructive way of bringing this matrix into a normal form is derived. This allows us to calculate explicitly the optimal local filterin operations for concentrating entanglement. Furthermore we give a complete characterization of the mixed states that can be purified arbitrary close to a Bell state. Finally we obtain a new way of calculating the entanglement of formation.

id: quant-ph/0011112
title: Generation of coherent superposition of Fock states in a cavity. Entanglement of atomic coherent states
authors: Mikayel Khanbekyan
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011112
abstract: A scheme for preparation of coherent superposition of Fock states of electromagnetic field is constructed. The superposition state is created inside the cavity via a strong interaction of a four-level atom with quantum field of the cavity and classic laser fields. We demonstrate the possibility to create desired arbitrary superposition of the cavity Fock states just by changing the relative delay of the fields. Then, as another application of our model, we study a means of creating entanglement of neutral four-level atoms using different sequences of interactions with the cavity and laser fields.

id: quant-ph/0011113
title: Continuous loading of a magnetic trap
authors: J. Stuhler, P. O. Schmidt, S. Hensler, J. Werner, J. Mlynek, T. Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version 2, modified references, included additional detailed information, minor changes in figure 3 and in text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011113
abstract: We have realized a scheme for continuous loading of a magnetic trap (MT). ^{52}Cr atoms are continuously captured and cooled in a magneto-optical trap (MOT). Optical pumping to a metastable state decouples atoms from the cooling light. Due to their high magnetic moment (6 Bohr magnetons), low-field seeking metastable atoms are trapped in the magnetic quadrupole field provided by the MOT. Limited by inelastic collisions between atoms in the MOT and in the MT, we load 10^8 metastable atoms at a rate of 10^8 atoms/s below 100 microkelvin into the MT. After loading we can perform optical repumping to realize a MT of ground state chromium atoms.

id: quant-ph/0011114
title: Multi-Dimensional Hermite Polynomials in Quantum Optics
authors: Pieter Kok, Samuel L Braunstein
comments: 10 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A, removed spurious file
journal: J. Phys. A 34, 6185 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011114
abstract: We study a class of optical circuits with vacuum input states consisting of Gaussian sources without coherent displacements such as down-converters and squeezers, together with detectors and passive interferometry (beam-splitters, polarisation rotations, phase-shifters etc.). We show that the outgoing state leaving the optical circuit can be expressed in terms of so-called multi-dimensional Hermite polynomials and give their recursion and orthogonality relations. We show how quantum teleportation of photon polarisation can be modelled using this description.

id: quant-ph/0011115
title: Generalizing the Heisenberg uncertainty relation
authors: Eric D. Chisolm
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Contains corrections to errors in the published edition
journal: Am J Phys 69, 368-371 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011115
abstract: The proof of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation is modified to produce two improvements: (a) the resulting inequality is stronger because it includes the covariance between the two observables, and (b) the proof lifts certain restrictions on the state to which the relation is applied, increasing its generality. The restrictions necessary for the standard inequality to apply are not widely known, and they are discussed in detail. The classical analog of the Heisenberg relation is also derived, and the two are compared. Finally, the modified relation is used to address the apparent paradox that eigenfunctions of the z component of angular momentum L_z do not satisfy the \phi-L_z Heisenberg relation; the resolution is that the restrictions mentioned above make the usual inequality inapplicable to these states. The modified relation does apply, however, and it is shown to be consistent with explicit calculations.

id: quant-ph/0011116
title: The Relaxation Method for Solving the Schrodinger Equation in Configuration Space with the Coulomb and Linear Potentials
authors: Alfred Tang, Daniel R. Shillinglaw, George Nill
comments: Latex, 26 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables and program listing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011116
abstract: The non-relativistic Schrodinger equation with the linear and Coulomb potentials is solved numerically in configuration space using the relaxation method. The numerical method presented in this paper is a plain explicit Schrodinger solver which is conceptually simple and is suitable for advanced undergraduate research.

id: quant-ph/0011117
title: Separable states are more disordered globally than locally
authors: M. A. Nielsen, J. Kempe
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 86, 5184-7 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011117
abstract: A remarkable feature of quantum entanglement is that an entangled state of two parties, Alice (A) and Bob (B), may be more disordered locally than globally. That is, S(A) > S(A,B), where S(.) is the von Neumann entropy. It is known that satisfaction of this inequality implies that a state is non-separable. In this paper we prove the stronger result that for separable states the vector of eigenvalues of the density matrix of system AB is majorized by the vector of eigenvalues of the density matrix of system A alone. This gives a strong sense in which a separable state is more disordered globally than locally and a new necessary condition for separability of bipartite states in arbitrary dimensions. We also investigate the extent to which these conditions are sufficient to characterize separability, exhibiting examples that show separability cannot be characterized solely in terms of the local and global spectra of a state. We apply our conditions to give a simple proof that non-separable states exist sufficiently close to the completely mixed state of $n$ qudits.

id: quant-ph/0011118
title: Searching with Quantum Computers
authors: Lov K. Grover
comments: Introductory article on the quantum search algorithm for computer scientists. Scheduled to appear in the April 2001 issue of Dr. Dobbs Journal. Feedback will be appreciated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011118
abstract: This article introduces quantum computation by analogy with probabilistic computation. A basic description of the quantum search algorithm is given by representing the algorithm as a C program in a novel way.

id: quant-ph/0011119
title: On the Qualitative Theory of Non-Gamov Decay States
authors: V. M. Chabanov, B. N. Zakhariev
comments: 5 pages with 9 figures, LaTeX, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011119
abstract: Complex potential transformations which add imaginary parts to chosen energy levels are given and qualitatively explained. Unexpected shape similarity of potential perturbations for real and imaginary E-shifts of bound states are exhibited. The imaginary E-shifts in the continuous spectrum lead to a surprising quasi-periodic field raking up initial propagating waves into localized states. Complex periodic potentials without lacunas (!) are constructed. The fission of quasi-bound states when neighbour complex eigenvalues approach one another is demonstrated. E-shift algorithms represent wide classes of exactly solvable quantum models for non-self-adjoint operators.

id: quant-ph/0011120
title: Berry's phase for compact Lie groups
authors: E. Strahov
comments: 24 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011120
abstract: The Lie group adiabatic evolution determined by a Lie algebra parameter dependent Hamiltonian is considered. It is demonstrated that in the case when the parameter space of the Hamiltonian is a homogeneous K\"ahler manifold its fundamental K\"ahler potentials completely determine Berry geometrical phase factor. Explicit expressions for Berry vector potentials (Berry connections) and Berry curvatures are obtained using the complex parametrization of the Hamiltonian parameter space. A general approach is exemplified by the Lie algebra Hamiltonians corresponding to SU(2) and SU(3) evolution groups.

id: quant-ph/0011121
title: A geometrical approach to non-adiabatic transitions in quantum theory: applications to NMR, over-barrier reflection and parametric excitation of quantum oscillator
authors: M. S. Marinov, E. Strahov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011121
abstract: This article deals with non-adiabatic processes (i.e. processes excluded by the adiabatic theorem) from the geometrical (group-theoretical) point of view. An approximated formula for the probabilities of the non-adiabatic transitions is derived in the adiabatic regime for the case when the parameter-dependent Hamiltonian represents a smooth curve in the Lie algebra and the quantal dynamics is determined by the corresponding Lie group evolution operator. We treat the spin precession in a time-dependent magnetic field and the over-barrier reflection problem in a uniform way using the first-order dynamical equations on SU(2) and $SU(1.1)$ group manifolds correspondingly. A comparison with analytic solutions for simple solvable models is provided.

id: quant-ph/0011122
title: Algorithmic Theories of Everything
authors: Juergen Schmidhuber
comments: 10 theorems, 50 pages, 100 refs, 20000 words. Minor revisions: added references; improved readability
journal: Sections 1-5 in: Hierarchies of generalized Kolmogorov complexities and nonenumerable universal measures computable in the limit. International Journal of Foundations of Computer Science 13(4):587-612 (2002). Section 6 in: The Speed Prior: A New Simplicity Measure Yielding Near-Optimal Computable Predictions. In J. Kivinen and R. H. Sloan, editors, Proceedings of the 15th Annual Conference on Computational Learning Theory (COLT 2002), Sydney, Australia, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, pages 216--228. Springer, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Learning (cs.LG); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011122
abstract: The probability distribution P from which the history of our universe is sampled represents a theory of everything or TOE. We assume P is formally describable. Since most (uncountably many) distributions are not, this imposes a strong inductive bias. We show that P(x) is small for any universe x lacking a short description, and study the spectrum of TOEs spanned by two Ps, one reflecting the most compact constructive descriptions, the other the fastest way of computing everything. The former derives from generalizations of traditional computability, Solomonoff's algorithmic probability, Kolmogorov complexity, and objects more random than Chaitin's Omega, the latter from Levin's universal search and a natural resource-oriented postulate: the cumulative prior probability of all x incomputable within time t by this optimal algorithm should be 1/t. Between both Ps we find a universal cumulatively enumerable measure that dominates traditional enumerable measures; any such CEM must assign low probability to any universe lacking a short enumerating program. We derive P-specific consequences for evolving observers, inductive reasoning, quantum physics, philosophy, and the expected duration of our universe.

id: quant-ph/0011123
title: Frequently Asked Questions about Decoherence
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 18 pages, latex. This is a non-technical, critical review article on decoherence developed from material in a course on advanced quantum mechanics. The revised version has an additional introductory section and minor changes
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 41 (2002) 1573-1590
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011123
abstract: We give a short, critical review of the issue of decoherence. We establish the most general framework in which decoherence can be discussed, how it can be quantified and how it can be measured. We focus on environment induced decoherence and its degree of usefulness for the interpretation of quantum theory. We finally discuss the emergence of a classical world. An overall emphasis is given in pointing at common fallacies and misconceptions.

id: quant-ph/0011124
title: Teleportation of entangled states and dense coding using a multiparticle quantum channel
authors: V.N. Gorbachev, A.I. Trubilko, A.I. Zhiliba, E.S. Yakovleva
comments: 10 pages, latex, a topic on capacity is added, stylistic improvements, conclusions and results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011124
abstract: A set of protocols for teleportation and dense coding tasks with the use of a N particle quantum channel, presented by entangled states of the GHZ class, is introduced, when N>2. Using a found representation for the multiparticle entangled states of the GHZ class, it has shown, that for dense coding schemes enhancement of the classical capacity of the channel due from entanglement is N/N-1. If N>2 there is no one - to -one correspondence between teleportation and dense coding schemes in comparison with the EPR channel is exploited. A set of schemes, for which two additional operations as entanglement and disentanglement are permitted, is considered.

id: quant-ph/0011125
title: Stochastic Reduction in Nonlinear Quantum Mechanics
authors: D.C. Brody, L.P. Hughston
comments: 4 pages
journal: Proc. R. Soc. London A458 (2002) 1117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0011125
abstract: Stochastic extensions of the Schrodinger equation have attracted attention recently as plausible models for state reduction in quantum mechanics. Here we formulate a general approach to stochastic Schrodinger dynamics in the case of a nonlinear state space of the type proposed by Kibble. We derive a number of new identities for observables in the nonlinear theory, and establish general criteria on the curvature of the state space sufficient to ensure collapse of the wave function.

id: astro-ph/0011403
title: X Ray Precursors in GRBs and SGRs: outer X tails around a Precessing Gamma Jet
authors: Daniele Fargion
comments: Vulcano Workshop 2000,14 pages,8 figures,Vulcano Workshop 2000, May 22th - May 27th, 2000 -Italy. Marginal editorial corrections (abstract missing) introduced in the text
journal: Frontier in Astr. and Part. Phys. Ed. Giovannelli et al. SIF Conf. Vol.73,347-360 (2001)
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0011403
abstract: Weak isolated X-ray precursor events before the main Gamma Ray Burst, GRB, and also rare Soft Gamma Repeaters, SGR, events are in disagreement with any Fireball, or Magnetar, scenarios. These models are originated by an unique explosive event leading, by internal-external shock waves, to softer secondary trains following a main gamma signals. Indeed the earliest GRB980519,GRB981226 events as well as the latest and most distant identified one as GRB000131 are showing rare but well identified and distinct X Ray precursor, occurring tens of seconds or even a minute before the main GRB eruption. These weak X precursors bursts correspond to non-negligible energy powers, up to million Supernova ones. They are rare, about (3-6)% of all GRBs, but not unique. Similar huge explosive precursor are in total disagreement with a successive main Fireball GRB outburst. Comparable brief X-ray precursor flashes are found also in rarest and most detailed SGRs events as those observed on 27 and 29 August 1999 from SGR 1900+14. They are inconsistent with a Magnetar Fireball explosion. We interpret them as earlier marginal blazing of outlying X conical Jet tails surrounding a narrower gamma precessing,spinning beamed Jet in blazing mode toward the Earth; later re-crossing and better hitting of the target -the satellite detectors- is source of the main GRB (and SGR) observed structured event. The X Ray precursor existence is an additional remarkable evidence of the Precessing relativistic Jet Nature of both GRBs and SGRs.

id: cond-mat/0011040
title: Detection of Geometric Phases in Superconducting Nanocircuits
authors: Giuseppe Falci, Rosario Fazio, G. Massimo Palma, Jens Siewert, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 12 pages
journal: Nature Vol. 407, 355 (2000)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011040
abstract: When a quantum mechanical system undergoes an adiabatic cyclic evolution it acquires a geometrical phase factor in addition to the dynamical one. This effect has been demonstrated in a variety of microscopic systems. Advances in nanotechnologies should enable the laws of quantum dynamics to be tested at the macroscopic level, by providing controllable artificial two-level systems (for example, in quantum dots and superconducting devices). Here we propose an experimental method to detect geometric phases in a superconducting device. The setup is a Josephson junction nanocircuit consisting of a superconducting electron box. We discuss how interferometry based on geometrical phases may be realized, and show how the effect may applied to the design of gates for quantum computation.

id: cond-mat/0011151
title: A nonlinear differential approach to the Saffman-Taylor finger
authors: G. K?lbermann, R. Wallach
comments: Latex format, expanded and ameliorated version
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011151
abstract: Nonlinear time-dependent differential equations for the Hele-Shaw, Saffman-Taylor problem are derived. The equations are obtained using a separable ansatz expansion for the stream function of the displaced fluid obeying a Darcian flow. Suitable boundary conditions on the stream function, provide a potential term for the nonlinear equation. The limits for the finger widths derived from the potential and boundary conditions are $1>\lambda>\frac{1}{\sqrt{5}}$, in units of half the width of the Hele-Shaw cell, in accordance with observation. Stationary solutions with no free phenomenological parameters are found numerically. The dependence of asymptotic finger width on the physical parameters of the cell compares satisfactorily with experiment. The correct dispersion relation for the instabilities is obtained from the time dependent equation.

id: cond-mat/0011204
title: From Completely Positive Maps to the Quantum Markovian Semigroup Master Equation
authors: Daniel A. Lidar, Zsolt Bihary, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 16 pages, including 1 figure. This version to appear in special issue on dynamics of open quantum systems of Chemical Physics. Minor differences in presentation from previous version
journal: Chemical Physics 268, 35-53 (2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011204
abstract: A central problem in the theory of the dynamics of open quantum systems is the derivation of a rigorous and computationally tractable master equation for the reduced system density matrix. Most generally, the evolution of an open quantum system is described by a completely positive linear map. We show how to derive a completely positive Markovian master equation (the Lindblad equation) from such a map by a coarse graining procedure. We provide a novel and explicit recipe for calculating the coefficients of the master equation, using perturbation theory in the weak-coupling limit. The only parameter external to our theory is the coarse-graining time-scale. We illustrate the method by explicitly deriving the master equation for the spin-boson model. The results are evaluated for the exactly solvable case of pure dephasing, and an excellent agreement is found within the timescale where the Markovian approximation is expected to be valid. The method can be extended in principle to include non-Markovian effects.

id: cond-mat/0011269
title: Quantum state engineering with Josephson-junction devices
authors: Yuriy Makhlin, Gerd Schoen, Alexander Shnirman
comments: An article prepared for Reviews of Modern Physics, 46 pages, 23 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 73, 357-400 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011269
abstract: We review recent theoretical and experimental progress in quantum state engineering with Josephson junction devices. The concepts of quantum computing have stimulated an increased activity in the field. Either charges or phases (fluxes) of the Josephson systems can be used as quantum degrees of freedom, and their quantum state can be manipulated coherently by voltage and current pulses. They thus can serve as qubits, and quantum logic gates can be performed. Their phase coherence time, which is limited, e.g., by the electromagnetic fluctuations in the control circuit, is long enough to allow a series of these manipulations. The quantum measurement process performed by a single-electron transistor, a SQUID, or further nanoelectronic devices is analyzed in detail.

id: cond-mat/0011288
title: Nuclear-spin qubits interaction in mesoscopic wires and rings
authors: Yu. V. Pershin, I. D. Vagner, P. Wyder
comments: 3 figures, 12 pages
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 15 No 6 (19 February 2003) 997-1006
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011288
abstract: Theoretical study of the indirect coupling of nuclear spins (qubits) embedded into a mesoscopic ring and in a finite length quantum wire in a magnetic field is presented. It is found that the hyperfine interaction, via the conduction electrons, between nuclear spins exhibits sharp maxima as function of the magnetic field and nuclear spin positions. This phenomenon can be used for manipulation of qubits with almost atomic precision. Experimental feasibility and implications for quantum logics devices is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0011340
title: Anisotropic exchange interaction of localized conduction-band electrons in semiconductor structures
authors: K.V.Kavokin
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.B 64, 075305 (2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011340
abstract: The spin-orbit interaction in semiconductors is shown to result in an anisotropic contribution into the exchange Hamiltonian of a pair of localized conduction-band electrons. The anisotropic exchange interaction exists in semiconductor structures which are not symmetric with respect to spatial inversion, for instance in bulk zinc-blend semiconductors. The interaction has both symmetric and antisymmetric parts with respect to permutation of spin components. The antisymmetric (Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya) interaction is the strongest one. It contributes significantly into spin relaxation of localized electrons; in particular, it governs low-temperature spin relaxation in n-GaAs with the donor concentration near 10^16cm-3. The interaction must be allowed for in designing spintronic devices, especially spin-based quantum computers, where it may be a major source of decoherence and errors.

id: cond-mat/0011389
title: Statistical thermodynamics of quantum Brownian motion: Birth of perpetuum mobile of the second kind
authors: Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen, A.E. Allahverdyan
comments: Revised version restricted to harmonic potential. Includes violation of the Clausius inequality, negative energy dispersion, negative entropy production and work extraction cycles. 62 pages, 10 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011389
abstract: The Brownian motion of a quantum particle in a harmonic confining potential and coupled to a harmonic quantum thermal bath is exactly solvable. It is shown that at low enough temperatures the stationary state is non-Gibbsian due to an entanglement with the bath. In physical terms, this happens when the cloud of bath modes around the particle starts to play a non-trivial role. Indeed, equilibrium thermodynamics of the total system, particle plus bath, does not imply standard equilibrium thermodynamics for the particle itself at low $T$. Various formulations of the second law are found to be invalid at low $T$. First, the Clausius inequality can be violated, because heat can be extracted from the zero point energy of the cloud of bath modes. Second, when the width of the confining potential is suddenly changed, there occurs a relaxation to equilibrium during which the entropy production is partly negative. Third, for non-adiabatic changes of system parameters the rate of energy dissipation can be negative, and, out of equilibrium, cyclic processes are possible which extract work from the bath. Conditions are put forward under which perpetuum mobile of the second kind, having one or several work extraction cycles, enter the realm of condensed matter physics. Fourth, it follows that the equivalence between different formulations of the second law (e.g. those by Clausius and Thomson) can be violated at low temperatures. These effects are the consequence of quantum entanglement in the presence of the slightly off-equilibrium nature of the thermal bath, and become important when the characteristic quantum time scale $\hbar/k_BT$ is larger than or comparable to other timescale of the system. They show that there is no general consensus between standard thermodynamics and quantum mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0011467
title: Refinement of Bethe ansatz string and its alternative
authors: Anjan Kundu
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0011467
abstract: The well known string solution to Bethe ansatz equations is shown to be inconsistent in its widely accepted form. A valid refinement demanding higher order corrections in subsequent roots is identified. A new alternative string solution is proposed for finite long chains, consistent with the non-Bethe strings observed earlier.

id: gr-qc/0011003
title: Cosmic Censorship: The Role of Quantum Gravity
authors: Shahar Hod, Tsvi Piran
comments: 7 pages. This essay received the Second Prize from the Gravity Research Foundation 2000
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 32 (2000) 2333-2338
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0011003
abstract: The cosmic censorship hypothesis introduced by Penrose thirty years ago is still one of the most important open questions in {\it classical} general relativity. In this essay we put forward the idea that cosmic censorship is intrinsically a {\it quantum gravity} phenomena. To that end we construct a gedanken experiment in which cosmic censorship is violated within the purely {\it classical} framework of general relativity. We prove, however, that {\it quantum} effects restore the validity of the conjecture. This suggests that classical general relativity is inconsistent and that cosmic censorship might be enforced only by a quantum theory of gravity.

id: gr-qc/0011011
title: On Quantum Mechanics in Friedmann-Robertson-Walker Universe
authors: E.A.Tagirov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0011011
abstract: It is shown that only in the space-times admitting a 1+3-foliation by flat Cauchy hypesurfaces (i.e., in the Bianchi I type space-times the isotropic version of which the spatially flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker space-times are) the canonical quantization of geodesic motion and quantum-mechanics obtained as an asymptotics of the quantum theory of scalar field lead to the same canonical commutation relations (CCR). Otherwise, the field-theoretical approach leads to a deformation of CCR (particularly, operators of coordinates do not commute), and the Principle of Correspondence is broken in a sense. Thus, the spatially flat cosmology is distinguished intrinsically in the quantum theory.

id: gr-qc/0011111
title: Quantum correlation functions and the classical limit
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 30 pages, latex; minor changes, added some explanations and refeences
journal: Phys.Rev. D63 (2001) 125024
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0011111
abstract: We study the transition from the full quantum mechanical description of physical systems to an approximate classical stochastic one. Our main tool is the identification of the closed-time-path (CTP) generating functional of Schwinger and Keldysh with the decoherence functional of the consistent histories approach. Given a degree of coarse-graining in which interferences are negligible, we can explicitly write a generating functional for the effective stochastic process in terms of the CTP generating functional. This construction gives particularly simple results for Gaussian processes. The formalism is applied to simple quantum systems, quantum Brownian motion, quantum fields in curved spacetime. Perturbation theory is also explained. We conclude with a discussion on the problem of backreaction of quantum fields in spacetime geometry.

id: hep-ph/0011068
title: Synchronisation and MSW sharpening of neutrinos propagating in a flavour blind medium
authors: Nicole F. Bell, R. F. Sawyer, Raymond R. Volkas
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B500:16-21,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0011068
abstract: We consider neutrino oscillations in a medium in which scattering processes are blind to the neutrino flavour. We present an analytical derivation of the synchronised behaviour obtained in the limit where the average scattering rate is much larger than the oscillation frequency. We also examine MSW transitions in these circumstances, and show that a sharpening of the transition can result.

id: hep-ph/0011137
title: Some exact solutions of the Dirac equation
authors: A.S. de Castro, J. Franklin
comments: 4 pages. No figures. Presented in Hadron 2000: International Workshop on Hadron Physics, Caraguatatuba, SP, Brasil, April 2000
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0011137
abstract: Exact analytic solutions are found to the Dirac equation for a combination of Lorentz scalar and vector Coulombic potentials with additional non-Coulombic parts. An appropriate linear combination of Lorentz scalar and vector non-Coulombic potentials, with the scalar part dominating, can be chosen to give exact analytic Dirac wave functions.

id: hep-th/0011005
title: Charged particles in external fields as physical examples of quasi-exactly solvable models: a unified treatment
authors: Chun-Ming Chiang, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: RevTex, 15 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A63 (2001) 062105
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011005
abstract: We present a unified treatment of three cases of quasi-exactly solvable problems, namely, charged particle moving in Coulomb and magnetic fields, for both the Schr\"odinger and the Klein-Gordon case, and the relative motion of two charged particles in an external oscillator potential. We show that all these cases are reducible to the same basic equation, which is quasi-exactly solvable owing to the existence of a hidden $sl_2$ algebraic structure. A systematic and unified algebraic solution to the basic equation using the method of factorization is given. Analytic expressions of the energies and the allowed frequencies for the three cases are given in terms of the roots of one and the same set of Bethe ansatz equations.

id: hep-th/0011065
title: Strings from Logic
authors: Christof Schmidhuber
comments: Talk, 19 pp, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011065
abstract: What are strings made of? The possibility is discussed that strings are purely mathematical objects, made of logical axioms. More precisely, proofs in simple logical calculi are represented by graphs that can be interpreted as the Feynman diagrams of certain large-N field theories. Each vertex represents an axiom. Strings arise, because these large-N theories are dual to string theories. These ``logical quantum field theories'' map theorems into the space of functions of two parameters: N and the coupling constant. Undecidable theorems might be related to nonperturbative field theory effects.

id: hep-th/0011096
title: New Solvable Singular Potentials
authors: R. Dutt, A. Gangopadhyaya, C. Rasinariu, U. Sukhatme
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.A34:4129-4142,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011096
abstract: We obtain three new solvable, real, shape invariant potentials starting from the harmonic oscillator, P\"oschl-Teller I and P\"oschl-Teller II potentials on the half-axis and extending their domain to the full line, while taking special care to regularize the inverse square singularity at the origin. The regularization procedure gives rise to a delta-function behavior at the origin. Our new systems possess underlying non-linear potential algebras, which can also be used to determine their spectra analytically.

id: hep-th/0011126
title: Multi Parametric Deformed Heisenberg Algebras: A Route to Complexity
authors: E. M. F. Curado, M. A. Rego-Monteiro
comments: latex, 17 pages, 5 PS figures; to be published in J. Phys. A: Math and Gen (2001); a few sentences were added in order to clarify some points
journal: J.Phys.A34:3253-3264,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011126
abstract: We introduce a generalization of the Heisenberg algebra which is written in terms of a functional of one generator of the algebra, $f(J_0)$, that can be any analytical function. When $f$ is linear with slope $\theta$, we show that the algebra in this case corresponds to $q$-oscillators for $q^2 = \tan \theta$. The case where $f$ is a polynomial of order $n$ in $J_0$ corresponds to a $n$-parameter deformed Heisenberg algebra. The representations of the algebra, when $f$ is any analytical function, are shown to be obtained through the study of the stability of the fixed points of $f$ and their composed functions. The case when $f$ is a quadratic polynomial in $J_0$, the simplest non-linear scheme which is able to create chaotic behavior, is analyzed in detail and special regions in the parameter space give representations that cannot be continuously deformed to representations of Heisenberg algebra.

id: hep-th/0011137
title: Generating All Wigner Functions
authors: Thomas Curtright, Tsuneo Uematsu, Cosmas Zachos
comments: LaTex2e, 21 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.42:2396,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011137
abstract: In the context of phase-space quantization, matrix elements and observables result from integration of c-number functions over phase space, with Wigner functions serving as the quasi-probability measure. The complete sets of Wigner functions necessary to expand all phase-space functions include off-diagonal Wigner functions, which may appear technically involved. Nevertheless, it is shown here that suitable generating functions of these complete sets can often be constructed, which are relatively simple, and lead to compact evaluations of matrix elements. New features of such generating functions are detailed and explored for integer-indexed sets, such as for the harmonic oscillator, as well as continuously indexed ones, such as for the linear potential and the Liouville potential. The utility of such generating functions is illustrated in the computation of star functions, spectra, and perturbation theory in phase space.

id: hep-th/0011150
title: Quons in Relativistic Theories Must be Bosons or Fermions
authors: Chi-Keung Chow, O.W. Greenberg
comments: 9 pages, no figures, latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A283 (2001) 20-24
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011150
abstract: The quon algebra describes particles, ``quons,'' that are neither fermions nor bosons using a label q that parametrizes a smooth interpolation between bosons (q = +1) and fermions (q = -1). We derive ``conservation of statistics'' relations for quons in relativistic theories, and show that in relativistic theories quons must be either bosons or fermions.

id: hep-th/0011188
title: Rotating Super Black Hole as Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 20 pages, Latex, talk given at the NATO Advanced Research Workshop "Non-commutative Structures in Mathematics and Physics", Kiev, September 2000 (Submitted to the Proceedings of ARW)
journal: Noncommutative Structures in Mathematics and Physics. Eds S.Duplij and J.Wess. Kluwer Acad. Press. NATO Sc. Series II. 22(2001)181-193
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0011188
abstract: We give a review of the works devoted to the treatment of the Kerr super black hole solution as a spinning particle. The real, complex and stringy structures of the Kerr and super-Kerr geometries are discussed, as well as the recent results on the regular matter source for the Kerr spinning particle. It is shown that the source has to represent a rotating bag-like bubble having (A)dS interior and a smooth domain wall boundary. The given by Morris supersymmetric generalization of the U(I) x U'(I) field model (which was used by Witten to describe cosmic superconducting strings) is considered, and it is shown that this model can be adapted for description of superconducting bags having a long range external electromagnetic field and another gauge field confined inside the bag.

id: math-ph/0011009
title: A model of interband radiative transitions
authors: J. Dittrich, P. Exner, M. Hirokawa
comments: 42 pages
journal: J. Math. Soc. Japan 56 (2004), 753-786.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0011009
abstract: We consider a simple model which is a caricature of a crystal interacting with a radiation field. The model has two bands of continuous spectrum and the particle can pass from the upper one to the lower by radiating a photon, the coupling between the excited and deexcited states being of a Friedrichs type. Under suitable regularity and analyticity assumptions we find the continued resolvent and show that for weak enough coupling it has a curve-type singularity in the lower halfplane which is a deformation of the upper-band spectral cut. We then find a formula for the decay amplitude and show that for a fixed energy it is approximately exponential at intermediate times, while the tail has a power-like behaviour.

id: math-ph/0011012
title: Numerical Study of Length Spectra and Low-lying Eigenvalue Spectra of Compact Hyperbolic 3-manifolds
authors: Kaiki Taro Inoue
comments: 19 pages, 18 EPS figures and 2 GIF figures (fig.10) Description of cusped manifolds in section 2 is corrected
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 18 No.4 629-652 (2001)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0011012
abstract: In this paper, we numerically investigate the length spectra and the low-lying eigenvalue spectra of the Laplace-Beltrami operator for a large number of small compact(closed) hyperbolic (CH) 3-manifolds. The first non-zero eigenvalues have been successfully computed using the periodic orbit sum method, which are compared with various geometric quantities such as volume, diameter and length of the shortest periodic geodesic of the manifolds. The deviation of low-lying eigenvalue spectra of manifolds converging to a cusped hyperbolic manifold from the asymptotic distribution has been measured by $\zeta-$ function and spectral distance.

id: math-ph/0011015
title: Geometrically induced spectrum in curved leaky wires
authors: Pavel Exner, Takashi Ichinose
comments: LaTeX2e, 16 pages
journal: J. Phys. A34 (2001), 1439-1450
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0011015
abstract: We study measure perturbations of the Laplacian in $L^2(\R^2)$ supported by an infinite curve $\Gamma$ in the plane which is asymptotically straight in a suitable sense. We show that if $\Gamma$ is not a straight line, such a ``leaky quantum wire'' has at least one bound state below the threshold of the essential spectrum.

id: math-ph/0011024
title: Symmetries Shared by Particle Physics and Quantum Optics
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: RevTex 11 pages, 3 psfigs, presented at the 23rd International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (Dubna, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0011024
abstract: It is known that two coupled harmonic oscillators can support the symmetry group as rich as O(3,3) which corresponds to the Lorentz group applicable to three space-like and three time-like coordinates. This group contains many subgroups, including O(3), O(3,2), O(2,1) which are already familiar to us. In this report, we discuss the symmetry of O(1,1) which plays pivotal roles in quantum optics and particle physics. For this one-parameter group, a full-fledged group theory is not necessary, and we can start the discussion from the Hamiltonian of the coupled oscillator system. It is shown first that, from the group theoretical point of view, the squeeze state of light is a representation of this O(1,1) group. It is then shown that the same mathematical device supports three seemingly different ideas of Feynman, namely the parton model, the relativistic quark model for hadrons, and the ``rest of the universe'' in connection with the density matrix. If these three theories are combined, they produce a covariant picture of Feynman's parton model with a built-in decoherence mechanism.

id: math/0011063
title: Gromov-Hausdorff Distance for Quantum Metric Spaces
authors: Marc A. Rieffel
comments: 81 pages. Several minor improvements and several references added. To appear Memoirs Amer. Math. Soc
journal: Mem. Amer. Math. Soc. 168 (2004) no. 796, 1-65
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0011063
abstract: By a quantum metric space we mean a C^*-algebra (or more generally an order-unit space) equipped with a generalization of the Lipschitz seminorm on functions which is defined by an ordinary metric. We develop for compact quantum metric spaces a version of Gromov-Hausdorff distance. We show that the basic theorems of the classical theory have natural quantum analogues. Our main example involves the quantum tori, $A_{\th}$. We show, for consistently defined ``metrics'', that if a sequence $\{\th_n\}$ of parameters converges to a parameter $\th$, then the sequence $\{A_{\th_n}\}$ of quantum tori converges in quantum Gromov-Hausdorff distance to $A_{\th}$.

id: math/0011208
title: Quantum Logic in Intuitionistic Perspective
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 32 pages; Camera ready version; indications and references on current progress on the matter have been included
journal: Studia Logica 70, 411-440 (2002)
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0011208
abstract: In their seminal paper Birkhoff and von Neumann revealed the following dilemma: "... whereas for logicians the orthocomplementation properties of negation were the ones least able to withstand a critical analysis, the study of mechanics points to the distributive identities as the weakest link in the algebra of logic." In this paper we eliminate this dilemma, providing a way for maintaining both. Via the introduction of the "missing" disjunctions in the lattice of properties of a physical system while inheriting the meet as a conjunction we obtain a complete Heyting algebra of propositions on physical properties. In particular there is a bijective correspondence between property lattices and propositional lattices equipped with a so called operational resolution, an operation that exposes the properties on the level of the propositions. If the property lattice goes equipped with an orthocomplementation, then this bijective correspondence can be refined to one with propositional lattices equipped with an operational complementation, as such establishing the claim made above. Formally one rediscovers via physical and logical considerations as such respectively a specification and a refinement of the purely mathematical result by Bruns and Lakser (1970) on injective hulls of meet-semilattices. From our representation we can derive a truly intuitionistic functional implication on property lattices, as such confronting claims made in previous writings on the matter. We also make a detailed analysis of disjunctivity vs. distributivity and finitary vs. infinitary conjunctivity, we briefly review the Bruns-Lakser construction and indicate some questions which are left open.

id: math/0011209
title: Disjunctive Quantum Logic in Dynamic Perspective
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 13 Pages; camera ready version; some corrections are made; indications and references on current progress on the matter have been included
journal: Studia Logica 71, 1-10 (2002)
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0011209
abstract: In arXiv: math.LO/0011208 we proposed the {\sl intuitionistic or disjunctive representation of quantum logic}, i.e., a representation of the property lattice of physical systems as a complete Heyting algebra of logical propositions on these properties, where this complete Heyting algebra goes equipped with an additional operation, the {\sl operational resolution}, which identifies the properties within the logic of propositions. This representation has an important application ``towards dynamic quantum logic'', namely in describing the temporal indeterministic propagation of actual properties of physical systems. This paper can as such by conceived as an addendum to ``Quantum Logic in Intuitionistic Perspective'' that discusses spin-off and thus provides an additional motivation. We derive a quantaloidal semantics for dynamic disjunctive quantum logic and illustrate it for the particular case of a perfect (quantum) measurement.

id: nlin/0011013
title: Darboux-integrable equations with non-Abelian nonlinearities
authors: Nikolai V. Ustinov, Marek Czachor
comments: LaTeX, 19 pages
journal: in ''Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Computation, Axiomatics'' (eds. Aerts D., Czachor M. and Durt T.), World Scientific, Singapore, 2002, 335-353
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0011013
abstract: We introduce a new class of nonlinear equations admitting a representation in terms of Darboux-covariant compatibility conditions. Their special cases are, in particular, (i) the "general" von Neumann equation $i\dot\rho=[H,f(\rho)]$, with $[f(\rho),\rho]=0$, (ii) its generalization involving certain functions $f(\rho)$ which are non-Abelian in the sense that $[f(\rho),\rho]\neq0$, and (iii) the Nahm equations.

id: nlin/0011050
title: Classical 1D maps, quantum graphs and ensembles of unitary matrices
authors: Prot Pakonski, Karol Zyczkowski, Marek Kus
comments: REVTeX 13 pages, 12 figures included, final published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34 (2001) 9303-9317
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0011050
abstract: We study a certain class of classical one dimensional piecewise linear maps. For these systems we introduce an infinite family of Markov partitions into equal cells. The symbolic dynamics generated by these systems is described by bistochastic (doubly stochastic) matrices. We analyze the structure of graphs generated from the corresponding symbolic dynamics. We demonstrate that the spectra of quantized graphs corresponding to the regular classical systems have locally Poissonian statistics, while quantized graphs derived from classically chaotic systems display statistical properties characteristic of Circular Unitary Ensemble, even though the corresponding unitary matrices are sparse.

id: nucl-th/0011009
title: Squeezing mode in nuclear collisions
authors: Klaus Morawetz, Pavel Lipavsk?
comments: final corrections
journal: Phys.Rev. C63 (2001) 061602
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0011009
abstract: The time dependent Schroedinger equation is solved analytically for a simplified model of moving infinite walls. A new knock-out mode is described which might occur during heavy ion collisions. The outer shell-nucleons are ionised due to the increase of level energy when two nuclei are approaching fast enough. This is analogous to the Mott effect but in contrast occurs only if the reaction time is short enough that no common ionisation threshold in the compound system is established. To demonstrate this pure nonequilibrium effect a simulation of realistic heavy ion collision by a nonlocal Boltzmann equation is performed.

id: physics/0011019
title: Driving superfluidity with photoassociation
authors: Matt Mackie, Eddy Timmermans, Robin Cote, Juha Javanainen
comments: 7 (preprint) pages; submitted to Optics Express
journal: Optics Express 8, 118 (2000)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0011019
abstract: We theoretically examine photoassociation of a two-component Fermi degenerate gas. Our focus is on adjusting the atom-atom interaction, and thereby increasing the critical temperature of the BCS transition to the superfluid state. In order to avoid spontaneous decay of the molecules, the photoassociating light must be far-off resonance. Very high light intensities are therefore required for effective control of the BCS transition.

id: physics/0011059
title: On a correspondence between classical and quantum particle systems
authors: Klaus Morawetz
comments: 5 pages, slightly corrected version (2 figures)
journal: Phys.Rev.E66:022103,2002
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0011059
abstract: An exact correspondence is established between a $N$-body classical interacting system and a $N-1$-body quantum system with respect to the partition function. The resulting quantum-potential is a $N-1$-body one. Inversely the Kelbg potential is reproduced which describes quantum systems at a quasi-classical level. The found correspondence between classical and quantum systems allows also to approximate dense classical many body systems by lower order quantum perturbation theory replacing Planck's constant properly by temperature and density dependent expressions. As an example the dynamical behaviour of an one - component plasma is well reproduced concerning the formation of correlation energy after a disturbance utilising solely the analytical quantum - Born result for dense degenerated Fermi systems. As a practical guide the quantum - Bruckner parameter $r_s$ has been replaced by the classical plasma parameter $\Gamma$ as $r_s\approx0.3 \Gamma^{3/2}$

