id: quant-ph/0012001
title: Quantum versus Classical Domains for Teleportation with Continuous Variables
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Christopher A. Fuchs, H. J. Kimble, P. van Loock
comments: 15 pages with 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A. Minor corrections made, conclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012001
abstract: Fidelity F{classical} = 1/2 has been established as setting the boundary between classical and quantum domains in the teleportation of coherent states of the electromagnetic field (S. L. Braunstein, C. A. Fuchs, and H. J. Kimble, J. Mod. Opt. 47, 267 (2000)). Two recent papers by P. Grangier and F. Grosshans (quant-ph/0009079 and quant-ph/0010107) introduce alternate criteria for setting this boundary and as a result claim that the appropriate boundary should be F = 2/3. Although larger fidelities would lead to enhanced teleportation capabilities, we show that the new conditions of Grangier and Grosshans are largely unrelated to the questions of entanglement and Bell-inequality violations that they take to be their primary concern. With regard to the quantum-classical boundary, we demonstrate that fidelity F{classical} = 1/2 remains the appropriate point of demarcation. The claims of Grangier and Grosshans to the contrary are simply wrong, as we show by an analysis of the conditions for nonseparability (that complements our earlier treatment) and by explicit examples of Bell-inequality violations.

id: quant-ph/0012002
title: Perturbative corrections to photon coincidence spectroscopy
authors: L. Horvath, B. C. Sanders
comments: 30 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 34, 1-22 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012002
abstract: Photon coincidence spectroscopy is a promising technique for probing the nonlinear regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics in the optical domain, however its accuracy is mitigated by two factors: higher-order photon correlations, which contribute to an enhanced pair count rate, and non-simultaneity of emitted photon pairs from the optical cavity. We show that the technique of photon coincidence spectroscopy is effective in the presence of these effects if the quantitative predictions are adjusted to include non-simultaneity and higher-order correlations.

id: quant-ph/0012003
title: Entangled Quantum Clocks for Measuring Proper-Time Difference
authors: W.Y. Hwang, D. Ahn, S.W. Hwang, Y.D. Han
comments: no correction, 4 pages, RevTex
journal: European Physical Journal D 19, 129 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012003
abstract: We report that entangled pairs of quantum clocks (non-degenerate quantum bits) can be used as a specialized detector for precisely measuring difference of proper-times that each constituent quantum clock experiences. We describe why the proposed scheme would be more precise in the measurement of proper-time difference than a scheme of two-separate-quantum-clocks. We consider possibilities that the proposed scheme can be used in precision test of the relativity theory.

id: quant-ph/0012004
title: Singular potentials and absorption problem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Vladimir D. Skarzhinsky, Juergen Audretsch
comments: gz-compressed .tar LaTeX file, 9 pages, to be published in Proceedings of Int.Conference "Quantization, Gauge Theory and Strings", Moscow, June 5-10, 2000. The extended version of this talk will be published
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012004
abstract: We discuss a possible approach to the absorption problem in Quantum Mechanics based on using of singular attractive potentials in the corresponding Schr\"{o}dinger equations. Possible criteria for selection of exact solutions of these equations are considered and it is shown that different models of absorption can be realized by a special choice of exact solutions. As an example, the motion of charged particles in the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) and the scalar attractive $\rho^{-2}$ potentials is investigated in detail. Other attractive potentials are briefly considered.

id: quant-ph/0012005
title: Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of 31P donors in silicon quantum computer
authors: A.A. Larionov, L.E. Fedichkin, A.A. Kokin, K.A. Valiev
comments: 12 pages,, 3 figures
journal: Nanotechnology 11, 392 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012005
abstract: The influence of the electric field created by a gate potential of the silicon quantum computer on the hyperfine interaction constant (HIC) is obtained. The errors due to technological inaccuracy of location of donor atoms under a gate are evaluated. The energy spectra of electron-nuclear spin system of two interacting donor atoms with various values of HIC are calculated. The presence of two pairs of anticrossing levels in the ground electronic state is shown. Parameters of the structure at which errors rate can be greatly minimized are found.

id: quant-ph/0012006
title: Optimal encoding and decoding of a spin direction
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, A. Brey, R. Munoz-Tapia, R. Tarrach
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A63, 052309 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012006
abstract: For a system of N spins 1/2 there are quantum states that can encode a direction in an intrinsic way. Information on this direction can later be decoded by means of a quantum measurement. We present here the optimal encoding and decoding procedure using the fidelity as a figure of merit. We compute the maximal fidelity and prove that it is directly related to the largest zeroes of the Legendre and Jacobi polynomials. We show that this maximal fidelity approaches unity quadratically in 1/N. We also discuss this result in terms of the dimension of the encoding Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0012007
title: Levels of Reality as Source of Quantum Indeterminacy
authors: Basarab Nicolescu
comments: 18 pages
journal: "Determinismo e complessita", Fondazione Nova Spes and Armando Editore, Roma, 2000, pp.127-158, edited by F. Tito Arecchi
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012007
abstract: We show that the notion of "levels of Reality" introduced by Werner Heisenberg in his "Manuscript of 1942" (1984) and by myself (1983-1985) could explain the quantum indeterminacy. General epistemological implications of this notion are also studied.

id: quant-ph/0012008
title: Mechanical analogy for the wave-particle: helix on a vortex filament
authors: Valery P. Dmitriyev
comments: 16 pages, links activated. See mesoscopic models at physics/9906019
journal: Journal of Applied Mathematics, vol. 2, No 5, pp. 241-263 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012008
abstract: The small amplitude-to-thread ratio helical configuration of a vortex filament in the ideal fluid behaves exactly as de Broglie wave. The complex-valued algebra of quantum mechanics finds a simple mechanical interpretation in terms of differential geometry of the space curve. The wave function takes the meaning of the velocity with which the helix rotates about the screw axis. The helices differ in type of the screw - right or left-handed. Two kinds of the helical waves deflect in the inhomogeneous fluid vorticity field in the same way as spin particles in the Stern-Gerlach experiment.

id: quant-ph/0012009
title: Noncommutative tori and universal sets of non-binary quantum gates
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 5 pages, REVTeX3.1, v2: spelling and misprints, 4 new refs
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 2959-2964
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012009
abstract: A problem of universality in simulation of evolution of quantum system and in theory of quantum computations is related with the possibility of expression or approximation of arbitrary unitary transformation by composition of specific unitary transformations (quantum gates) from given set. In an earlier paper (quant-ph/0010071) application of Clifford algebras to constructions of universal sets of binary quantum gates $U_k \in U(2^n)$ was shown. For application of a similar approach to non-binary quantum gates $U_k \in U(l^n)$ in present work is used rational noncommutative torus ${\Bbb T}^{2n}_{1/l}$. A set of universal non-binary two-gates is presented here as one example.

id: quant-ph/0012010
title: Bell's Theorem and Locality in Space
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 7 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012010
abstract: Bell's theorem states that some quantum correlations can not be represented by classical correlations of separated random variables. It has been interpreted as incompatibility of the requirement of locality with quantum mechanics. We point out that in fact the space part of the wave function was neglected in the proof of Bell's theorem. However this space part is crucial for considerations of property of locality of quantum system. Actually the space part leads to an extra factor in quantum correlations and as a result the ordinary proof of Bell's theorem fails in this case. We present a criterium of locality in a realist theory of hidden variables. It is argued that predictions of quantum mechanics for Gaussian wave functions can be consistent with Bell's inequalities and hence Einstein's local realism is restored in this case.

id: quant-ph/0012011
title: Symmetries, Quantum Geometry, and the Fundamental Interactions
authors: Jeeva Anandan
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, Revtex. The presentation in the earlier version of Dec. 15, 2000 has been improved and some misprints corrected
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 41 (2002) 199-220
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012011
abstract: A generalized Noether's theorem and the operational determination of a physical geometry in quantum physics are used to motivate a quantum geometry consisting of relations between quantum states that are defined by a universal group. Making these relations dynamical implies the non local effect of the fundamental interactions on the wave function, as in the Aharonov-Bohm effect and its generalizations to non Abelian gauge fields and gravity. The usual space-time geometry is obtained as the classical limit of this quantum geometry using the quantum state space metric.

id: quant-ph/0012012
title: Efficacy of non-locality theorems "without inequalities" for pairs of spin 1/2 particles
authors: Giuseppe Nistico'
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012012
abstract: We prove that recent theorems of non-locality without inequalities are not effective, for systems of two spacelike separated 2-level sub-systems, in proving non-locality of any empirically valid theory sharing a set of correlations with quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0012013
title: A Unified Treatment for XXX-Heisenberg Model and Haldane-Shastry Model Using Shift Operators
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Mo-Lin Ge, Kang Xue, Xian-Geng Zhao
comments: 26 pages, Latex file, Submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012013
abstract: A unified treatment is developed for the XXX-Heisenberg model and a long-ranged interaction model (the $H_2$ in Haldane-Shastry model) from the point of view of shift operators (or raising and lowering operators), based on which the energy spectra of the spin-chain models are determined. Some physical discussions are also made.

id: quant-ph/0012014
title: Quantum dynamical theory for squeezing the output of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Hui Jing, Jing-Ling Chen, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 6 pages, Latex file, Phys.Rev.A 63(2001)15601
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012014
abstract: A linear quantum dynamical theory for squeezing the output of the trapped Bose-Einstein condensate is presented with the Bogoliubov approximation. We observe that the non-classical properties, such as sub-Poisson distribution and quadrature squeezing effect, mutually oscillate between the quantum states of the applied optical field and the resulting atom laser beam with time. In particular, it is shown that an initially squeezed optical field will lead to squeezing in the outcoupled atomic beam at later times.

id: quant-ph/0012015
title: Optimal estimation of quantum dynamics
authors: A. Acin, E. Jane, G. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, REVTEX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 050302(R) (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012015
abstract: We construct the optimal strategy for the estimation of an unknown unitary transformation $U\in SU(d)$. This includes, in addition to a convenient measurement on a probe system, finding which is the best initial state on which $U$ is to act. When $U\in SU(2)$, such an optimal strategy can be applied to estimate simultaneously both the direction and the strength of a magnetic field, and shows how to use a spin 1/2 particle to transmit information about a whole coordinate system instead of only a direction in space.

id: quant-ph/0012016
title: Complete parameterization, and invariance, of diffusive quantum trajectories for Markovian open systems
authors: H.M. Wiseman, L. Diosi
comments: 10 pages, including 5 figures, submitted to J. Chem Phys special issue on open quantum systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012016
abstract: The state matrix $\rho$ for an open quantum system with Markovian evolution obeys a master equation. The master equation evolution can be unraveled into stochastic nonlinear trajectories for a pure state $P$, such that on average $P$ reproduces $\rho$. Here we give for the first time a complete parameterization of all diffusive unravelings (in which $P$ evolves continuously but non-differentiably in time). We give an explicit measurement theory interpretation for these quantum trajectories, in terms of monitoring the system's environment. We also introduce new classes of diffusive unravelings that are invariant under the linear operator transformations under which the master equation is invariant. We illustrate these invariant unravelings by numerical simulations. Finally, we discuss generalized gauge transformations as a method of connecting apparently disparate descriptions of the same trajectories by stochastic Schr\"odinger equations, and their invariance properties.

id: quant-ph/0012017
title: Time and Information
authors: Scott M. Hitchcock
comments: 11 pages, no figures, corrected equations and revised contents
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012017
abstract: The relationship between 'information' and 'time' is explored in order to look for a 'solution' to the 'Problem of Time'. 'Time' is found to be the result of the conversion of energy into 'information'. The 'time' number or label we assign to 'events' can be manufactured by processing information 'flowing' from a Feynman Clock (FC), via a 'signal', to a Feynman Detector (FD) in causal networks. Macroscopic arrows of time are built from the irreversible Quantum Arrow of Time (QAT) associated with unstable or excited states of quantum systems. The QAT is shown to be connected to the thermodynamic arrow of time. Collective Excitations, and causal networks provide a means for understanding 'time' in complex systems. The ordered set of the 'time' numbers labeling 'events' can be used to construct the 'direction' and 'dimension' associated with the usual conception of a 'time' axis or 'time' coordinate in quantum, classical and realtivistic mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0012018
title: Coherence-Preserving Quantum Bits
authors: D. Bacon, K.R. Brown, K.B. Whaley
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol 87 (24), 247902 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012018
abstract: Real quantum systems couple to their environment and lose their intrinsic quantum nature through the process known as decoherence. Here we present a method for minimizing decoherence by making it energetically unfavorable. We present a Hamiltonian made up solely of two-body interactions between four two-level systems (qubits) which has a two-fold degenerate ground state. This degenerate ground state has the property that any decoherence process acting on an individual physical qubit must supply energy from the bath to the system. Quantum information can be encoded into the degeneracy of the ground state and such coherence-preserving qubits will then be robust to local decoherence at low bath temperatures. We show how this quantum information can be universally manipulated and indicate how this approach may be applied to a quantum dot quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0012019
title: Control of a Coupled Two Spin System Without Hard Pulses
authors: V. Ramakrishna, R. J. Ober, K. L. Flores, H. Rabitz
comments: 21 pages, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012019
abstract: Constructive methods for controlling a coupled, two spin system via bounded amplitude, piecewise sinusoidal fields are provided. The fields are incident at the alrmor frequencies and take one of two phase values

id: quant-ph/0012020
title: Phase Conjugation of Continuous Quantum Variables
authors: N. J. Cerf, S. Iblisdir
comments: 3 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 032307 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012020
abstract: The phase conjugation of an unknown Gaussian state cannot be realized perfectly by any physical process. A semi-classical argument is used to derive a tight lower bound on the noise that must be introduced by an approximate phase conjugation operation. A universal transformation achieving the optimal imperfect phase conjugation is then presented, which is the continuous counterpart of the universal-NOT transformation for quantum bits. As a consequence, it is also shown that more information can be encoded into a pair of conjugate Gaussian states than using twice the same state.

id: quant-ph/0012021
title: Speakable and unspeakable after John Bell
authors: Ian C. Percival
comments: Given at the International Erwin Schroedinger Institute, Vienna at the November 2000 Conference in commemoration of John Bell. 10 pages including one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012021
abstract: `Philosophy' was speakable for John Bell but is not for many physicists. The border between philosophy and physics is here illustrated through Brownian motion and Bell experiments. `Measurement', however, was unspeakable for Bell. His insistence that the physics of quantum measurement should not be confined to the laboratory and that physics is concerned with the big world outside leads us to examples from zoology, meteorology and cosmology.

id: quant-ph/0012022
title: Distilling a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger State From an Arbitrary Pure State of Three Qubits
authors: Li-Xiang Cen, Shun-Jin Wang
comments: 5 pages, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012022
abstract: We present a general algorithm to achieve local operators which can produce the GHZ state for an arbitrary given three-qubit state. Thus the distillation process of the state can be realized optimally. The algorithm is shown to be sufficient for the three-qubit state on account of the fact that any state for which this distillation algorithm is invalid cannot be distilled to the GHZ state by any local actions. Moreover, an analytical result of distillation operations is achieved for the general state of three qubits.

id: quant-ph/0012023
title: Non-perturbative solution of nonlinear Heisenberg equations
authors: L. Mista Jr., R. Filip
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012023
abstract: A new non-perturbative method of solution of the nonlinear Heisenberg equations in the finite-dimensional subspace is illustrated. The method, being a counterpart of the traditional Schrodinger picture method, is based on a finite operator expansion into the elementary processes. It provides us with the insight into the nonlinear quantal interaction from the different point of view. Thus one can investigate the nonlinear system in both pictures of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0012024
title: A general computer program for the Bell detection loophole
authors: Roberto M. Basoalto, Ian C. Percival
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Revised version with additional reference to Pitowski and Svozil
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012024
abstract: The difference between ideal experiments to test Bell's weak nonlocality and the real experiments leads to loopholes. Ideal experiments involve either inequalities (Bell) or equalities (Greenberger, Horne, Zeilinger). Every real experiment has its own critical inequalities, which are almost all more complicated than the corresponding ideal inequalities and equalities. If one of these critical inequalities is violated, then the detection loophole is closed, with no further assumptions. If all the critical inequalities are satisfied, then it remains open, unless further assumptions are made. The computer program described here and published on the website this http URL obtains the critical inequalities for any real experiment, given the number of allowed settings of the angles and the corresponding possible output signals for a single run. Given all the necessary conditional probabilities or rates, it tests whether all these inequalities are satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0012025
title: Continuous variable cloning via network of parametric gates
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, F. De Martini, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. To appear on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 914 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012025
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme for the cloning machine of continuous quantum variables through a network of parametric amplifiers working as input-output four-port gates.

id: quant-ph/0012026
title: Feasible Entanglement Purification for Quantum Communication
authors: Jian-Wei Pan, Christoph Simon, Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature 410, 1067-1070 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012026
abstract: The distribution of entangled states between distant locations will be essential for the future large scale realization of quantum communication schemes such as quantum cryptography and quantum teleportation. Because of the unavoidable noise in the quantum communication channel, the entanglement between two particles is more and more degraded the further they propagate. Entanglement purification is thus essential to distill highly entangled states from less entangled ones. Existing general purification protocols are based on the quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) or similar quantum logic operations, which are very difficult to implement experimentally. Present realizations of CNOT gates are much too imperfect to be useful for long-distance quantum communication. Here we present a feasible scheme for the entanglement purification of general mixed entangled states, which does not require any CNOT operations, but only simple linear optical elements. Since the perfection of such elements is very high, the local operations necessary for purification can be performed with the required precision. Our procedure is within the reach of current technology and should significantly simplify the implementation of long-distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0012027
title: Comment on the Possibility of a Geometric Constraint in the Schroedinger Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Mostafazadeh
comments: to appear in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, 15 (2000) 2129-2130
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012027
abstract: It is shown that the geometric constraint advocated in [R. S. Kaushal, Mod. Phys. Lett. A 15 (2000) 1391] is trivially satisfied. Therefore, such a constraint does not exist. We also point out another flaw in Kaushal's paper.

id: quant-ph/0012028
title: New high-efficiency source of photon pairs for engineering quantum entanglement
authors: Kaoru Sanaka, Karin Kawahara, Takahiro Kuga
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, IQEC2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012028
abstract: We have constructed an efficient source of photon pairs using a waveguide-type nonlinear device and performed a two-photon interference experiment with an unbalanced Michelson interferometer. Parametric down-converted photons from the nonlinear device are detected by two detectors located at the output ports of the interferometer. Because the interferometer is constructed with two optical paths of different length, photons from the shorter path arrive at the detector earlier than those from the longer path. We find that the difference of arrival time and the time window of the coincidence counter are important parameters which determine the boundary between the classical and quantum regime. When the time window of the coincidence counter is smaller than the arrival time difference, fringes of high visibility (80$\pm$ 10%) were observed. This result is only explained by quantum theory and is clear evidence for quantum entanglement of the interferometer's optical paths.

id: quant-ph/0012029
title: Modified relative entropy of entanglement for multi-party systems
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Revtex, Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012029
abstract: We present the modified relative entropy of entanglement for multi-party systems by a given relative density matrix which is spanned by a linear combination of the direct products of so-called basis of relative density matrices and reduced density matrices for every party. For three qubit system in a pure state we derive out the explicit and closed expression of our relative density matrix which is a function of the components of the state vector of three qubits. Through computing the modified relative entropy of entanglement of some important and interesting examples, we display the main behaviors and elementary properties of the modified relative entropy of entanglement and compare it with the generalized entanglement of formation. Moreover, we also propose an assistant, as the upper bound, of the modified relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0012030
title: Atom Optics with Microfabricated Optical Elements
authors: G. Birkl, F.B.J. Buchkremer, R. Dumke, W. Ertmer
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Optics Communications, vol. 191, pp. 67 - 81 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012030
abstract: We introduce a new direction in the field of atom optics, atom interferometry, and neutral-atom quantum information processing. It is based on the use of microfabricated optical elements. With these elements versatile and integrated atom optical devices can be created in a compact fashion. This approach opens the possibility to scale, parallelize, and miniaturize atom optics for new investigations in fundamental research and application. It will lead to new, compact sources of ultracold atoms, compact sensors based on matter wave interference and new approaches towards quantum computing with neutral atoms. The exploitation of the unique features of the quantum mechanical behavior of matter waves and the capabilities of powerful state-of-the-art micro- and nanofabrication techniques lend this approach a special attraction.

id: quant-ph/0012031
title: Remarks on the Extended Characteristic Uncertainty Relations
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: LaTex, 4 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys. A34 (2001) L75-1804
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012031
abstract: Three remarks concerning the form and the range of validity of the state-extended characteristic uncertainty relations (URs) are presented. A more general definition of the uncertainty matrix for pure and mixed states is suggested. Some new URs are provided.

id: quant-ph/0012032
title: Realization of quantum process tomography in NMR
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Isaac L. Chuang, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 8 pages, 7 EPS figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012314 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012032
abstract: Quantum process tomography is a procedure by which the unknown dynamical evolution of an open quantum system can be fully experimentally characterized. We demonstrate explicitly how this procedure can be implemented with a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computer. This allows us to measure the fidelity of a controlled-not logic gate and to experimentally investigate the error model for our computer. Based on the latter analysis, we test an important assumption underlying nearly all models of quantum error correction, the independence of errors on different qubits.

id: quant-ph/0012033
title: A quantum-copying machine for equatorial qubits
authors: Heng Fan, Xiang-Bin Wang, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Latex file, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012033
abstract: Bu\v{z}ek and Hillery proposed a universal quantum-copying machine (UQCM) (i.e., transformation) to analyze the possibility of cloning arbitrary states. The UQCM copies quantum-mechanical states with the quality of its output does not depend on the input. We propose a slightly different transformation to analyze a restricted set of input states. We impose the conditions (I) the density matrices of the two output states are the same, and that (II) the distance between input density operator and the output density operators is input state independent. Using Hilbert-Schmidt norm and Bures fidelity, we show that our transformation can achieves the bound of the fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0012034
title: Exact solutions for classical few-body systems from the multichannel quantum inverse problem
authors: B.N. Zakhariev, V.M. Chabanov
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Few-Body Systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012034
abstract: A surprising "duality" of the Newton equation with time-dependent forces and the stationary Schroedinger equation is discussed. Wide classes of exact solutions not known before for few-body Newton equations are generated directly from exactly solvable multichannel models discovered in quantum mechanics due to the inverse problem and the supersymmetry (SUSYQ) approach. The application of this duality to the control of the stability (bifurcations) of classical motions is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0012035
title: Teleportation of general finite dimensional quantum systems
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A276 (2000) 8-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012035
abstract: Teleportation of finite dimensional quantum states by a non-local entangled state is studied. For a generally given entangled state, an explicit equation that governs the teleportation is presented. Detailed examples and the roles played by the dimensions of the Hilbert spaces related to the sender, receiver and the auxiliary space are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0012036
title: Covariant geometric quantization of non-relativistic Hamiltonian mechanics
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012036
abstract: We provide geometric quantization of the vertical cotangent bundle V^*Q equipped with the canonical Poisson structure. This is a momentum phase space of non-relativistic mechanics with the configuration bundle Q -> R. The goal is the Schrodinger representation of V^*Q. We show that this quantization is equivalent to the fibrewise quantization of symplectic fibres of V^*Q -> R, that makes the quantum algebra of non-relativistic mechanics an instantwise algebra. Quantization of the classical evolution equation defines a connection on this instantwise algebra, which provides quantum evolution in non-relativistic mechanics as a parallel transport along time.

id: quant-ph/0012037
title: Interfering with decay of a single photon in microwave cavities through single photon quantum non-demolition scheme
authors: J. G. Peixoto de Faria, P. Nussenzveig, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza, M. C. Nemes
comments: 6 pages, no figures, RevTeX, submitted to Europhys. Lett. New version of the quant-ph/0012037 manuscript. Content modified, one reference removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012037
abstract: The decay of a single photon in a microwave cavity is shown to be retarded by interaction with a resonant two-level atom in the experimental setup recently developed by Nogues and co-workers [see G. Nogues, A. Rauschenbeutel, S. Osnaghi, M. Brune, J. M. Raimond and S. Haroche, Nature vol 400, 239(1999)]. The effect may be interpreted in terms of the temporary removal of the photon from the cavity thereby protecting it from the effects of the environment to wich the cavity is coupled. Realistic parameters lead to a significative increase of the survival probability of the photon subsequently to the monitoring interaction.

id: quant-ph/0012038
title: Preparation of pseudo-pure states by line-selective pulses in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: Xinhua Peng, Xiwen Zhu, Ximing Fang, Mang Feng, Keli Gao, Xiaodong Yang, Maili Liu
comments: RevTEX,10 pages,5 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012038
abstract: A new method of preparing the pseudo-pure state of a spin system for quantum computation in liquid nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was put forward and demonstrated experimentally. Applying appropriately connected line-selective pulses simultaneously and a field gradient pulse techniques we acquired straightforwardly all pseudo-pure states for two qubits in a single experiment much efficiently. The signal intensity with the pseudo-pure state prepared in this way is the same as that of temporal averaging. Our method is suitable for the system with arbitrary numbers of qubits. As an example of application, a highly structured search algorithm----Hogg's algorithm was also performed on the pseudo-pure state $\mid 00>$ prepared by our method.

id: quant-ph/0012039
title: A Neutral Atom and a Charged Wire: From Elastic scattering to Absorption
authors: M.Bawin, S.A.Coon
comments: 7 pages, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012039
abstract: We solve the problem of a neutral atom interacting with a charged wire, giving rise to an attractive 1/r^2 potential in two dimensions. We show how a suitable average over all possible self-adjoint extensions of the radial Schroedinger Hamiltonian eventually leads to the classical formula for absorption of the atom, a formula shown to be in agreement with a recent experiment.

id: quant-ph/0012040
title: Resonant photon creation in a three dimensional oscillating cavity
authors: Martin Crocce, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 13 pages. New section on off-resonance motion is included. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 013808 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012040
abstract: We analyze the problem of photon creation inside a perfectly conducting, rectangular, three dimensional cavity with one oscillating wall. For some particular values of the frequency of the oscillations the system is resonant. We solve the field equation using multiple scale analysis and show that the total number of photons inside the cavity grows exponentially in time. This is also the case for slightly off-resonance situations. Although the spectrum of a cavity is in general non equidistant, we show that the modes of the electromagnetic field can be coupled, and that the rate of photon creation strongly depends on this coupling. We also analyze the thermal enhancement of the photon creation.

id: quant-ph/0012041
title: Comments on: ``Weinberg's Nonlinear Quantum Mechanics and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox'', by Joseph Polchinski
authors: Bogdan Mielnik
comments: style changes, one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012041
abstract: Contrary to the opinion of J. Polchinski [Phys.Rev.Lett. {\bf 66}, 397-400 (1991)], the phenomenon of superluminal messages in nonlinear versions of quantum mechanics is not a specific difficulty in a class of theories formulated by S. Weinberg [Ann.Phys. (N.Y.), {\bf 194}, 336-386 (1989)]. It appears in all schemes which try to enlarge the orthodox class of observables, while conserving the traditional structure of the pure and mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0012042
title: A continuum local hidden variable model for the EPR experiment
authors: Laszlo E. Szabo
comments: Withdrawn!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012042
abstract: The paper is withdrawn by the author, due to the fact that in Larsson's Phys.Lett. A256 (1999) 245-252 (quant-ph/9901074) a similar model was published with even higher efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0012043
title: Chaotic atomic population oscillations between two coupled Bose-Einstein condensates with time-dependent asymmetric trap potential
authors: Chaohong Lee, Lei Shi, Xiwen Zhu, Kelin Gao, Wenhua Hai, Yiwu Duan, Wing-Ki Liu
comments: Retex, 20 Pages, 9 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012043
abstract: We have investigated the chaotic atomic population oscillations between two coupled Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) with time-dependent asymmetric trap potential. In the perturbative regime, the population oscillations can be described by the Duffing equation, and the chaotic oscillations near the separatrix solution are analyzed. The sufficient-necessary conditions for stable oscillations depend on the physical parameters and initial conditions sensitively. The first-order necessary condition indicates that the Melnikov function is equal to zero, so the stable oscillations are Melnikov chaotic. For the ordinary parameters and initial conditions, the chaotic dynamics is simulated with numerical calculation. If the damping is absent, with the increasing of the trap asymmetry, the regular oscillations become chaotic gradually, the corresponding stroboscopic Poincare sections (SPS) vary from a single island to more islands, and then the chaotic sea. For the completely chaotic oscillations, the long-term localization disappears and the short-term localization can be changed from one of the BECs to the other through the route of Rabi oscillation. When there exists damping, the stationary chaos disappears, the transient chaos is a common phenomenon before regular stable frequency locked oscillations. And proper damping can keep localization long-lived.

id: quant-ph/0012044
title: Diagonalization of Hamiltonians, uncertainty matrices and Robertson inequality
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: 18 pages, Latex, no figures. To appear in the Proceedings of the Second Int. Conference on Geometry, Integrability and Quantization, Varna, June, 2000
journal: In "Geometry, Integrability and Quantization", eds: I.Mladenov and G.Naber (Coral Press, 2001) pp. 294-312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012044
abstract: The problem of diagonalization of Hamiltonians of N-dimensional boson systems by means of time-dependent canonical transformations (CT) is considered, the case of quadratic Hamiltonians being treated in greater detail. The unitary generator of time-dependent CT which can transform any Hamiltonian to that of a system of uncoupled stationary oscillators is constructed. The close relationship between methods of canonical transformations, time-dependent integrals of motion and dynamical symmetry is noted. The diagonalization and symplectic properties of the uncertainty matrix for 2N canonical observables are studied. It is shown that the normalized uncertainty matrix is symplectic for the squeezed multimode Glauber coherent states and for the squeezed Fock states with equal photon numbers in each mode. The Robertson uncertainty relation for the dispersion matrix of canonical observables is shown to be minimized in squeezed coherent states only.

id: quant-ph/0012045
title: Communication of Spin Directions with Product States and Finite Measurements
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 4 pages, minor changes, version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A64, 022305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012045
abstract: Total spin eigenstates can be used to intrinsically encode a direction, which can later be decoded by means of a quantum measurement. We study the optimal strategy that can be adopted if, as is likely in practical applications, only product states of $N$-spins are available. We obtain the asymptotic behaviour of the average fidelity which provides a proof that the optimal states must be entangled. We also give a prescription for constructing finite measurements for general encoding eigenstates.

id: quant-ph/0012046
title: Optimal cloning of coherent states with a linear amplifier and beam splitters
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Nicolas J. Cerf, Sofyan Iblisdir, Peter van Loock, Serge Massar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4938 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012046
abstract: A transformation achieving the optimal symmetric N-to-M cloning of coherent states is presented. Its implementation only requires a phase-insensitive linear amplifier and a network of beam splitters. An experimental demonstration of this continuous-variable cloner should therefore be in the scope of current technology. The link between optimal quantum cloning and optimal amplification of quantum states is also pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0012047
title: Analysis of Density Matrix reconstruction in NMR Quantum Computing
authors: G. L. Long, H. Y. Yan, Yang Sun
comments: 7 pages, title slightly changed and references added
journal: J. Opt. B: quantum semiclass Opt. 3(2001) 376-381
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012047
abstract: Reconstruction of density matrices is important in NMR quantum computing. An analysis is made for a 2-qubit system by using the error matrix method. It is found that the state tomography method determines well the parameters that are necessary for reconstructing the density matrix in NMR quantum computations. Analysis is also made for a simplified state tomography procedure that uses fewer read-outs. The result of this analysis with the error matrix method demonstrates that a satisfactory accuracy in density matrix reconstruction can be achieved even in a measurement with the number of read-outs being largely reduced.

id: quant-ph/0012048
title: Optical implementation of continuous-variable quantum cloning machines
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012048
abstract: We propose an optical implementation of the Gaussian continuous-variable quantum cloning machines. We construct a symmetric N -> M cloner which optimally clones coherent states and we also provide an explicit design of an asymmetric 1 -> 2 cloning machine. All proposed cloning devices can be built from just a single non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier and several beam splitters.

id: quant-ph/0012049
title: Entanglement Manipulation and Concentration
authors: R. T.Thew, W. J. Munro
comments: Accepted as Rapid Communication PRA
journal: Phys. Rev A. 63, 30302R (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012049
abstract: We introduce a simple, experimentally realisable, entanglement manipulation protocol for exploring mixed state entanglement. We show that for both non-maximally entangled pure, and mixed polarisation-entangled two qubit states, an increase in the degree of entanglement and purity, which we define as concentration, is achievable.

id: quant-ph/0012050
title: Coherent states and the quantization of 1+1-dimensional Yang-Mills theory
authors: Brian C. Hall
comments: 
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 13 (2001) 1281-1306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012050
abstract: This paper discusses the canonical quantization of 1+1-dimensional Yang-Mills theory on a spacetime cylinder, from the point of view of coherent states, or equivalently, the Segal-Bargmann transform. Before gauge symmetry is imposed, the coherent states are simply ordinary coherent states labeled by points in an infinite-dimensional linear phase space. Gauge symmetry is imposed by projecting the original coherent states onto the gauge-invariant subspace, using a suitable regularization procedure. We obtain in this way a new family of "reduced" coherent states labeled by points in the reduced phase space, which in this case is simply the cotangent bundle of the structure group K. The main result explained here, obtained originally in a joint work of the author with B. Driver, is this: The reduced coherent states are precisely those associated to the generalized Segal-Bargmann transform for K, as introduced by the author from a different point of view. This result agrees with that of K. Wren, who uses a different method of implementing the gauge symmetry. The coherent states also provide a rigorous way of making sense out of the quantum Hamiltonian for the unreduced system. Various related issues are discussed, including the complex structure on the reduced phase space and the question of whether quantization commutes with reduction.

id: quant-ph/0012051
title: Comment on "Measurement of time of arrival in quantum mechanics"
authors: A. D. Baute, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 3 inlined figures; comment on quant-ph/9709031
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012051
abstract: The analysis of the model quantum clocks proposed by Aharonov et al. [Phys. Rev. A 57 (1998) 4130 - quant-ph/9709031] requires considering evanescent components, previously ignored. We also clarify the meaning of the operational time of arrival distribution which had been investigated.

id: quant-ph/0012052
title: Reducing the communication complexity with quantum entanglement
authors: Peng Xue, Yun-Feng Huang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64 (2001) 032304.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012052
abstract: We propose a probabilistic two-party communication complexity scenario with a prior nonmaximally entangled state, which results in less communication than that is required with only classical random correlations. A simple all-optical implementation of this protocol is presented and demonstrates our conclusion.

id: quant-ph/0012053
title: Highly efficient photon-pair source using a Periodically Poled Lithium Niobate Waveguide
authors: S.Tanzilli, H.de Riedmatten, W.Tittel, H. Zbinden, P. Baldi, M. de Micheli, D.B. Ostrowsky, N. Gisin
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, accepted for publication in Electronic Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012053
abstract: We report on a new kind of correlated photon-pair source based on a waveguide integrated on a Periodically Poled Lithium Niobate substrate. Using a pump laser of a few micro-Watts at 657 nm, we generate degenerate photon-pairs at 1314 nm. Detecting about 1500 coincidences per second, we can infer a conversion rate of 10-6 pairs per pump photon, which is four orders of magnitude higher than that obtained with previous bulk sources. These results are very promising for the realization of sources for quantum communication and quantum metrology experiments requiring a high signal-to-noise ratio or working with more than one photon-pair at a time.

id: quant-ph/0012054
title: An Attack to Quantum Cryptography from Space
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012054
abstract: The promise of secure cryptographic quantum key distribution schemes is based on the use of quantum effects in the spin space. We point out that in fact in many current quantum cryptography protocols the space part of the wave function is neglected. However exactly the space part of the wave function describes the behaviour of particles in ordinary real three-dimensional space. As a result such schemes can be secure against eavesdropping attacks in the abstract spin space but could be insecure in the real three-dimensional space. We discuss an approach to the security of quantum key distribution in space by using Bell's inequality and a special preparation of the space part of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0012055
title: Multi-bit gates for quantum computing
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Anders Sorensen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor changes in the presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (17) (2001)3907-3910.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012055
abstract: We present a general technique to implement products of many qubit operators communicating via a joint harmonic oscillator degree of freedom in a quantum computer. By conditional displacements and rotations we can implement Hamiltonians which are trigonometric functions of qubit operators. With such operators we can effectively implement higher order gates such as Toffoli gates and C^n-NOT gates, and we show that the entire Grover search algorithm can be implemented in a direct way.

id: quant-ph/0012056
title: Theoretical efficient high capacity Quantum Key Distribution Scheme
authors: Gui Lu Long, Xiao Shu Liu
comments: 3 pages and 1 figure, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 032302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012056
abstract: A theoretical quantum key distribution scheme using EPR pairs is presented. This scheme is efficient in that it uses all EPR pairs in distributing the key except those chosen for checking eavesdroppers. The high capacity is achieved because each EPR pair carries 2 bits of key code.

id: quant-ph/0012057
title: Non-dissipative decoherence bounds on quantum computation
authors: Stefano Mancini, Rodolfo Bonifacio
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, ReVTeX, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 032310 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012057
abstract: We investigate the capabilities of a quantum computer based on cold trapped ions in presence of non-dissipative decoherence. The latter is accounted by using the evolution time as a random variable and then averaging on a properly defined probability distribution. Severe bounds on computational performances are found.

id: quant-ph/0012058
title: Ponderomotive entanglement purification
authors: Stefano Mancini
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, ReVTeX, Accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 279, 1 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012058
abstract: It is shown that ponderomotive force can be used to purify entangled states. The protocol is based on the possibility to exploit such force for a local quantum nondemolition measurement of the total excitation number of continuos variable entangled pairs.

id: quant-ph/0012059
title: Manipulating decay rates by entanglement and the Zeno effect
authors: A. F. R. de Toledo Piza, M. C. Nemes
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012059
abstract: We analyse a class of quantum dynamical processes which may lead to the hindering of the decay of a non-stationary state through appropriate entanglement with an additional two-level system. In this case the process can be considered as a module whose iteration is related to dynamical implementations of the so called quantum Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0012060
title: Quantum optical weak measurements can visualize photon dynamics in real time
authors: Jrgen Audretsch, Thomas Konrad, Artur Scherer
comments: 4 pages revtex, replacement with revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. A. We now take into account the finite lifetime of the cavity and limited efficiencies to detect the energy of the meter atoms
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012060
abstract: An experiment is proposed to visualize stroboscopically in real time the dynamics of a photon oscillating between two cavities. The visualization is implemented by a sequence of weak measurements (POVM), which are carried out by probing one of the cavities with a Rydberg atom and detecting a resulting phase shift by Ramsey interferometry. This way to measure the number of photons in a cavity was experimentally realized by Brune et al.. We suggest a feedback mechanism which minimizes the disturbance due to the measurement and enables a detection of the original evolution of the radiation field. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ta, 32.80.-t, 03.67.-a

id: quant-ph/0012061
title: Observation of decoherence with a movable mirror
authors: R. Folman, J. Schmiedmayer, H. Ritsch, D. Vitali
comments: Proceedings of the Lake Garda "quantum puzzles" conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012061
abstract: Recently it has been proposed to use parity as a measure of the mechanism behind decoherence or the transformation from quantum to classical. Here, we show that the proposed experiment is more feasible than previously thought, as even an initial thermal state would exhibit the hypothesized symmetry breaking.

id: quant-ph/0012062
title: Coherent Mechanism of Robust Population Inversion
authors: Jiri Vala, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012062
abstract: A coherent mechanism of robust population inversion in atomic and molecular systems by a chirped field is presented. It is demonstrated that a field of sufficiently high chirp rate imposes a certain relative phase between a ground and excited state wavefunction of a two-level system. The value of the relative phase angle is thus restricted to be negative and close to 0 or $-\pi$ for positive and negative chirp, respectively. This explains the unidirectionality of the population transfer from the ground to the excited state. In a molecular system composed of a ground and excited potential energy surface the symmetry between the action of a pulse with a large positive and negative chirp is broken. The same framwork of the coherent mechanism can explain the symmetry breaking and the population inversion due to a positive chirped field.

id: quant-ph/0012063
title: Telecloning and multiuser quantum channels for continuous variables
authors: P. van Loock, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012063
abstract: We propose entangled (M+1)-mode quantum states as a multiuser quantum channel for continuous-variable communication. Arbitrary quantum states can be sent via this channel simultaneously to M remote and separated locations with equal minimum excess noise in each output mode. For a set of coherent-state inputs, the channel realizes optimum symmetric 1-to-M cloning at a distance (``telecloning''). It also provides the optimal cloning of coherent states without the need of amplifying the state of interest. The generation of the multiuser quantum channel requires no more than two 10\log_{10}[(\sqrt{M}-1)/(\sqrt{M}+1)] dB squeezed states and M beam splitters.

id: quant-ph/0012064
title: Does nonorthogonality necessarily imply nonmaximal entanglement ?
authors: Dipankar Home, M K Samal
comments: 7 pages Revtex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012064
abstract: We show that bipartite entanglements involving non-orthogonal states are {\it necessarily nonmaximally} entangled, however {\it small} the non-orthogonality may be. How the deviation from maximal entanglement is related to nonorthogonality is quantified by using two independent measures of entanglement corresponding to the violation of Bell's inequality and the entropy measure respectively. This result is true even if one of the subsystems has orthogonal states. An application of this is that a maximal violation of Bell's inequality in entangled neutral kaons is not possible in the presence of CP violation.

id: quant-ph/0012065
title: General Forms of a N-fold Supersymmetric Family
authors: Hideaki Aoyama, Masatoshi Sato, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 11pages, REVTeX, few errata corrected
journal: Phys.Lett. B503 (2001) 423-429
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012065
abstract: We report general forms of one family of the N-fold supersymmetry in one-dimensional quantum mechanics. The N-fold supersymmetry is characterized by the supercharges which are N-th order in differential operators. The family reported here is defined as a particular form of the supercharges and is referred to as ``type A''. We show that a quartic and a periodic potentials, which were previously found to be N-fold supersymmetric by the authors, are realized as special cases of this type A family.

id: quant-ph/0012066
title: On generalized probabilities: correlation polytopes for automaton logic and generalized urn models, extensions of quantum mechanics and parameter cheats
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012066
abstract: Three extensions and reinterpretations of nonclassical probabilities are reviewed. (i) We propose to generalize the probability axiom of quantum mechanics to self-adjoint positive operators of trace one. Furthermore, we discuss the Cartesian and polar decomposition of arbitrary normal operators and the possibility to operationalize the corresponding observables. Thereby we review and emphasize the use of observables which maximally represent the context. (ii) In the second part, we discuss Pitowsky polytopes for automaton logic as well as for generalized urn models and evaluate methods to find the resulting Boole-Bell type (in)equalities. (iii) Finally, so-called ``parameter cheats'' are introduced, whereby parameters are transformed bijectively and nonlinearly in such a way that classical systems mimic quantum correlations and vice versa. It is even possible to introduce parameter cheats which violate the Boole-Bell type inequalities stronger than quantum ones, thereby trespassing the Tsirelson limit. The price to be paid is nonuniformity.

id: quant-ph/0012067
title: Storage of quantum dynamics on quantum states: a quasi-perfect programmable quantum gate
authors: G. Vidal, J. I. Cirac
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, REVTEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012067
abstract: We show how quantum dynamics (a unitary transformation) can be captured in the state of a quantum system, in such a way that the system can be used to perform, at a later time, the stored transformation almost perfectly on some other quantum system. Thus programmable quantum gates for quantum information processing are feasible if some small degree of imperfection is allowed. We discuss the possibility of using this fact for securely computing a secret function on a public quantum computer. Finally, our scheme for storage of operations also allows for a new form of quantum remote control.

id: quant-ph/0012068
title: A Scaling Law for the Energy Levels of a Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation
authors: R. Hasson, D. Richards
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012068
abstract: It is shown that the energy levels of the one-dimensional nonlinear Schrodinger, or Gross-Pitaevskii, equation with the homogeneous trap potential $x^{2p}$, $p\geq 1$, obey an approximate scaling law and as a consequence the energy increases approximately linearly with the quantum number. Moreover, for a quadratic trap, $p=1$, the rate of increase of energy with the quantum number is independent of the nonlinearity: this prediction is confirmed with numerical calculations. It is also shown that the energy levels computed using a variational approximation do not satisfy this scaling law.

id: quant-ph/0012069
title: 100 Years of Quanta: Complex-Dynamical Origin of Planck's Constant and Causally Complete Extension of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Andrei P. Kirilyuk
comments: 32 pages, 3 eqs, 46 refs; Dedicated to the 100th Anniversary of quanta appearance in Max Planck's report at the meeting of German Physical Society in Berlin 14 December 1900; Reviews a part of the author's book "Universal Concept of Complexity by the Dynamic Redundance Paradigm: Causal Randomness, Complete Wave Mechanics, and the Ultimate Unification of Knowledge" (Kyiv, Naukova Dumka, 1997; in English), see physics/9806002; new text format, stylistic corrections in v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012069
abstract: On 14 December 1900 Max Planck first formulated the idea of energy quanta related to a new universal constant now known as Planck's constant. Despite the following progress of thus initiated "quantum mechanics", the physical origin of both quantization and universality of Planck's constant remains mysterious, as well as other "peculiar" properties of quantum dynamics. In this paper we review a recent causal extension of quantum mechanics consistently explaining all its "mysteries" by irreducibly complex, "dynamically multivalued" behaviour of the underlying system of two interacting protofields (quant-ph/9902015, quant-ph/9902016). The theory contains no imposed postulates or entities except one, unavoidable assumption about the physical nature of the protofields. All the observed entities and their properties, starting from physically real space, time, and elementary particle structure, are consistently derived, in exact correspondence with their emergence in real, irreducibly complex system dynamics. The latter provides also natural (dynamic) unification of the causally extended versions of quantum mechanics, relativity, and field theory, including unification and causal understanding of particle interaction forces. Realism and wholeness of the obtained world picture are in agreement with the "absolute reality" quest of Max Planck and confirm his famous doubts about the conventional scheme of quantum mechanics (cf. quant-ph/9911107, quant-ph/0101129). We describe various applications of the obtained results providing successful solution to many fundamental and practical problems dangerously stagnating within conventional approaches.

id: quant-ph/0012070
title: Spectral Oscillations, Periodic Orbits, and Scaling
authors: S. A. Fulling
comments: 19 pages, RevTeX4 with PicTeX. Minor improvements in content, new references, typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A 35, 4049-4066 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012070
abstract: The eigenvalue density of a quantum-mechanical system exhibits oscillations, determined by the closed orbits of the corresponding classical system; this relationship is simple and strong for waves in billiards or on manifolds, but becomes slightly muddy for a Schrodinger equation with a potential, where the orbits depend on the energy. We discuss several variants of a way to restore the simplicity by rescaling the coupling constant or the size of the orbit or both. In each case the relation between the oscillation frequency and the period of the orbit is inspected critically; in many cases it is observed that a characteristic length of the orbit is a better indicator. When these matters are properly understood, the periodic-orbit theory for generic quantum systems recovers the clarity and simplicity that it always had for the wave equation in a cavity. Finally, we comment on the alleged "paradox" that semiclassical periodic-orbit theory is more effective in calculating low energy levels than high ones.

id: quant-ph/0012071
title: Tomography of Quantum Operations
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Lo Presti
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. 2 eps + 1 latex figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 86, pag. 4195 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012071
abstract: Quantum operations describe any state change allowed in quantum mechanics, including the evolution of an open system or the state change due to a measurement. In this letter we present a general method based on quantum tomography for measuring experimentally the matrix elements of an arbitrary quantum operation. As input the method needs only a single entangled state. The feasibility of the technique for the electromagnetic field is shown, and the experimental setup is illustrated based on homodyne tomography of a twin-beam.

id: quant-ph/0012072
title: Generalized uncertainty relations and coherent and squeezed states
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: 14 pages, two columns revtex, no figures
journal: J.Opt.Soc.Am. A17 (2000) 2486-2495
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012072
abstract: Characteristic uncertainty relations and their related squeezed states are briefly reviewed and compared in accordance with the generalizations of three equivalent definitions of the canonical coherent states. The standard SU(1,1) coherent states are shown to be the unique states that minimize the Schroedinger uncertainty relation for every pair of the three generators and the Robertson relation for the three generators. The characteristic uncertainty inequalities are naturally extended to the case of several states. It is shown that these inequalities can be written in the equivalent complementary form.

id: quant-ph/0012073
title: Coupled cavities for enhancing the cross-phase modulation in electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: T. Opatrny, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX, to appear in Phys. Rev. A (v2 - minor changes in discussion of experimental conditions)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012073
abstract: We propose an optical double-cavity resonator whose response to a signal is similar to that of an Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) medium. A combination of such a device with a four-level EIT medium can serve for achieving large cross-Kerr modulation of a probe field by a signal field. This would offer the possibility of building a quantum logic gate based on photonic qubits. We discuss the technical requirements that are necessary for realizing a probe-photon phase shift of Pi caused by a single-photon signal. The main difficulty is the requirement of an ultra-low reflectivity beamsplitter and to operate a sufficiently dense cool EIT medium in a cavity.

id: quant-ph/0012074
title: Negativity and Concurrence of mixed 2X2 states
authors: Koenraad Audenaert, Frank Verstraete, Tijl De Bie, Bart De Moor
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures included. QIP2001 workshop, January 2001, Amsterdam; for an extended version see quant-ph/0108021
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012074
abstract: We consider two measures of entanglement of mixed bipartite states of dimension 2X2: concurrence and negativity. We first prove the conjecture of Eisert and Plenio that concurrence can never be smaller than negativity. We then characterise all states for which concurrence equals negativity and also those states for which the difference between concurrence and negativity is maximal (keeping either the concurrence fixed, or the participation ratio R=1/trace(rho^2)).

id: quant-ph/0012075
title: Relativistic quantum protocols: "Bit Commitment" and "Coin Tossing"
authors: S. N. Molotkov, S. S. Nazin
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012075
abstract: The relativistic quantum protocols realizing the bit commitment and distant coin tossing schemes are proposed. The protocols are based on the fact that the non-stationary orthogonal extended quantum states cannot be reliably distinguished if they are not fully accessible for the measurement. As the states propagate from the domain controlled by one of the user to the domain accessible for the measurements performed by the other user, they become reliably distinguishable for the second user. Important for the protocol are both the quantum nature of the states and the existence of a finite maximum speed of the signal propagation imposed by the special relativity.

id: quant-ph/0012076
title: Ultralocal Fields and their Relevance for Reparametrization Invariant Quantum Field Theory
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A34:3277-3288,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012076
abstract: Reparametrization invariant theories have a vanishing Hamiltonian and enforce their dynamics through a constraint. We specifically choose the Dirac procedure of quantization before the introduction of constraints. Consequently, for field theories, and prior to the introduction of any constraints, it is argued that the original field operator representation should be ultralocal in order to remain totally unbiased toward those field correlations that will be imposed by the constraints. It is shown that relativistic free and interacting theories can be completely recovered starting from ultralocal representations followed by a careful enforcement of the appropriate constraints. In so doing all unnecessary features of the original ultralocal representation disappear. The present discussion is germane to a recent theory of affine quantum gravity in which ultralocal field representations have been invoked before the imposition of constraints.

id: quant-ph/0012077
title: Quantum Vernam Cipher
authors: D. W. Leung
comments: stronger security proof for recycling classical keys
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol.2. No.1 p.14-34 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012077
abstract: We discuss aspects of secure quantum communication by proposing and analyzing a quantum analog of the Vernam cipher (one-time-pad). The quantum Vernam cipher uses entanglement as the key to encrypt quantum information sent through an insecure quantum channel. First, in sharp contrast with the classical Vernam cipher, the quantum key can be recycled securely. We show that key recycling is intrinsic to the quantum cipher-text, rather than using entanglement as the key. Second, the scheme detects and corrects for arbitrary transmission errors, and it does so using only local operations and classical communication (LOCC) between the sender and the receiver. The application to quantum message authentication is discussed. Quantum secret sharing schemes with similar properties are characterized. We also discuss two general issues, the relation between secret communication and secret sharing, the classification of secure communication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0012078
title: Security of Quantum Key Distribution with Entangled Photons Against Individual Attacks
authors: Edo Waks, Assaf Zeevi, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012078
abstract: Security of the Ekert protocol is proven against individual attacks where an eavesdropper is allowed to share any density matrix with the two communicating parties. The density matrix spans all of the photon number states of both receivers, as well as a probe state of arbitrary dimensionality belonging to the eavesdropper. Using this general eavesdropping strategy, we show that the Shannon information on the final key, after error correction and privacy amplification, can be made exponentially small. This is done by finding a bound on the eavesdropper's average collision probability. We find that the average collision probability for the Ekert protocol is the same as that of the BB84 protocol for single photons, indicating that there is no analog in the Ekert protocol to photon splitting attacks. We then compare the communication rate of both protocols as a function of distance, and show that the Ekert protocol has potential for much longer communication distances, up to 170km, in the presence of realistic detector dark counts and channel loss. Finally, we propose a slightly more complicated scheme based on entanglement swapping that can lead to even longer distances of communication. The limiting factor in this new scheme is the fiber loss, which imposes very slow communication rates at longer distances.

id: quant-ph/0012079
title: Laser-Induced Entangled Giant Quasi-Molecules in Optical Lattices
authors: Bimalendu Deb, Gershon Kurizki
comments: Extended to 3D calculations, experimental possibility discussed; 6 pages including 3 figures, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012079
abstract: We analyze atom-atom interactions in optical lattices due to a laser-induced long-range interatomic force which prevails over the usual London-van der-Waals forces. This force, which can be generated by an intense laser field at a wavelength longer than that of the lattice-generating laser, is shown to bind pairs of cold atoms trapped at different lattice sites, and cause their translational quantum correlations (spatial entanglement).

id: quant-ph/0012080
title: Idealization Second Quantization of Composite Particles
authors: D.L. Zhou, S.Y. Yu, C.P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012080
abstract: A practical method is developed to deal with the second quantization of the many-body system containing the composite particles. In our treatment, the modes associated with composite particles are regarded approximately as independent ones compared with those of unbound particles. The field operators of the composite particles thus arise naturally in the second quantization Hamiltonian. To be emphasized, the second quantization Hamiltonian has the regular structures which correspond clearly to different physical processes.

id: quant-ph/0012081
title: Black Hole Evaporation Entails an Objective Passage of Time
authors: Avshalom C. Elitzur, Shahar Dolev
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Found. of Phys. Lett. vol 12, No. 4 (1999), pp. 309-323
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012081
abstract: Time's apparent passage has long been debated by philosophers, with no decisive argument for or against its objective existence. In this paper we show that introducing the issue of determinism gives the debate a new, empirical twist. We prove that any theory that states that the basic laws of physics are time-symmetric must be strictly deterministic. It is only determinism that enables time reversal, whether theoretical or experimental, of anyentropy-increasing process. A contradiction therefore arises between Hawking's argument that physical law is time-symmetric and his controversial claim that black-hole evaporation introduces a fundamental unpredictability into the physical world. The latter claim forcibly entails an intrinsic time-arrow independent of boundary conditions. A simulation of a simple system under time reversal shows how an intrinsic time arrow re-emerges, destroying the time reversal, when even the slightest failure of determinism occurs. This proof is then extended to the classical behavior of black holes. We conclude with pointing out the affinity between time's arrow and its apparent passage.

id: quant-ph/0012082
title: Semiclassical Casimir Energies at Finite Temperature
authors: Martin Schaden, Larry Spruch
comments: 17 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012082
abstract: We study the dependence on the temperature T of Casimir effects for a range of systems, and in particular for a pair of ideal parallel conducting plates, separated by a vacuum. We study the Helmholtz free energy, combining Matsubara's formalism, in which the temperature appears as a periodic Euclidean fourth dimension of circumference 1/T, with the semiclassical periodic orbital approximation of Gutzwiller. By inspecting the known results for the Casimir energy at T=0 for a rectangular parallelepiped, one is led to guess at the expression for the free energy of two ideal parallel conductors without performing any calculation. The result is a new form for the free energy in terms of the lengths of periodic classical paths on a two-dimensional cylinder section. This expression for the free energy is equivalent to others that have been obtained in the literature. Slightly extending the domain of applicability of Gutzwiller's semiclassical periodic orbit approach, we evaluate the free energy at T>0 in terms of periodic classical paths in a four-dimensional cavity that is the tensor product of the original cavity and a circle. The validity of this approach is at present restricted to particular systems. We also discuss the origin of the classical form of the free energy at high temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0012083
title: Geometrical Representation of Angular Momentum Coherence and Squeezing
authors: Abir Bandyopadhyay, Jagdish Rai
comments: RevTeX, tightened preprint, 13 pages. Figs 1(a-d) in separate eps files, figs 2-3 in picture environment within the main LaTeX file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012083
abstract: A simple, and elegant geometrical representation is developed to describe the concept of coherence and squeezing for angular momentum operators. Angular momentum squeezed states were obtained by applying Bogoliubov transformation on the angular momentum coherent states in Schwinger representation [Phys. Rev. {\bf{A 51}} (1995)]. We present the geometrical phase space description of angular momentum coherent and squeezed states and relate with the harmonic oscillator. The unique feature of our geometric representation is the portraying of the expectation values of the angular momentum components accompanied by their uncertainties. The bosonic representation of the angular momentum coherent and squeezed states is compared with the conventional one mentioning the advantages of this representation of angular momentum in context of coherence and squeezing. Extension of our work on single mode squeezing to double mode squeezing is presented and compared with the single mode one. We also point out the possible applications of the geometrical representation in analyzing the accuracy of interferometers and in studying the behavior, dynamics of an ensemble of quantum-mechanical two-level systems and its interaction with radiation.

id: quant-ph/0012084
title: Quantum factoring, discrete logarithms and the hidden subgroup problem
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: latex2e, 15 pages. Review article prepared for special issue of "IEEE Computing in Science and Engineering"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012084
abstract: Amongst the most remarkable successes of quantum computation are Shor's efficient quantum algorithms for the computational tasks of integer factorisation and the evaluation of discrete logarithms. In this article we review the essential ingredients of these algorithms and draw out the unifying generalization of the so-called abelian hidden subgroup problem. This involves an unexpectedly harmonious alignment of the formalism of quantum physics with the elegant mathematical theory of group representations and fourier transforms on finite groups. Finally we consider the non-abelian hidden subgroup problem mentioning some open questions where future quantum algorithms may be expected to have a substantial impact.

id: quant-ph/0012085
title: Continued fraction solution to the Raman interaction of a trapped ultracold ion with two traveling wave lasers
authors: Mang Feng
comments: RevTex 11 pages, 8 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012085
abstract: Raman interaction of a trapped ultracold ion with two traveling wave lasers has been used extensively in the ion trap experiments. We solve this interaction in the absence of the rotating wave approximation by a continued fraction, without considering the restriction of the Lamb-Dicke limit and the weak excitation regime. Some interesting characteristics of the ion-trap system, particularly for the ion outside the weak excitation regime are found. Finally, a comparison of our results with the solution under the rotating wave approximation is made.

id: quant-ph/0012086
title: Entangled coherent states: teleportation and decoherence
authors: S.J. van Enk, O. Hirota
comments: 11 pages LaTeX, 3 eps figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 022313 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012086
abstract: When a superposition $(|\alpha>-|-\alpha>)$ of two coherent states with opposite phase falls upon a 50-50 beamsplitter, the resulting state is entangled. Remarkably, the amount of entanglement is exactly 1 ebit, irrespective of $\alpha$, as was recently discovered by O. Hirota and M. Sasaki. Here we discuss decoherence properties of such states and give a simple protocol that teleports one qubit encoded in Schr\"odinger cat states

id: quant-ph/0012087
title: Quantum scattering in one dimension
authors: Vania E. Barlette, Marcelo M. Leite, Sadhan K. Adhikari
comments: 8 pages
journal: Eur. J. Phys., 21 (2000) 435-440
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012087
abstract: A self-contained discussion of nonrelativistic quantum scattering is presented in the case of central potentials in one space dimension, which will facilitate the understanding of the more complex scattering theory in two and three dimensions. The present discussion illustrates in a simple way the concept of partial-wave decomposition, phase shift, optical theorem and effective-range expansion.

id: quant-ph/0012088
title: Effects of Imperfect Gate Operations in Shor's Prime Factorization Algorithm
authors: Hao Guo, Gui-Lu Long, Yang Sun
comments: 5 pages 4 figures
journal: J. Chin. Chem. Soc. 48 (2001) 449-54
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012088
abstract: The effects of imperfect gate operations in implementation of Shor's prime factorization algorithm are investigated. The gate imperfections may be classified into three categories: the systematic error, the random error, and the one with combined errors. It is found that Shor's algorithm is robust against the systematic errors but is vulnerable to the random errors. Error threshold is given to the algorithm for a given number $N$ to be factorized.

id: quant-ph/0012089
title: Bibliographic guide to the foundations of quantum mechanics and quantum information
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 462 pages, 10344 references, updated 15 November 2004. Latest version: www.adancabello.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012089
abstract: This is a collection of references (papers, books, preprints, book reviews, Ph. D. thesis, patents, web sites, etc.), sorted alphabetically and (some of them) classified by subject, on foundations of quantum mechanics and quantum information. Specifically, it covers hidden variables (``no-go'' theorems, experiments), interpretations of quantum mechanics, entanglement, quantum effects (quantum Zeno effect, quantum erasure, ``interaction-free'' measurements, quantum ``non-demolition'' measurements), quantum information (cryptography, cloning, dense coding, teleportation), and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0012090
title: Quantum Walks On Graphs
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Andris Ambainis, Julia Kempe, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 10 pages, this version appeared
journal: Proceedings of ACM Symposium on Theory of Computation (STOC'01), July 2001, p. 50-59
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012090
abstract: We set the ground for a theory of quantum walks on graphs- the generalization of random walks on finite graphs to the quantum world. Such quantum walks do not converge to any stationary distribution, as they are unitary and reversible. However, by suitably relaxing the definition, we can obtain a measure of how fast the quantum walk spreads or how confined the quantum walk stays in a small neighborhood. We give definitions of mixing time, filling time, dispersion time. We show that in all these measures, the quantum walk on the cycle is almost quadratically faster then its classical correspondent. On the other hand, we give a lower bound on the possible speed up by quantum walks for general graphs, showing that quantum walks can be at most polynomially faster than their classical counterparts.

id: quant-ph/0012091
title: Nonlocal Effects of Partial Measurements and Quantum Erasure
authors: Avshalom C. Elitzur, Shahar Dolev
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001). 19 pages, 12 figures, RevTeX 3.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 1-14 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012091
abstract: Partial measurement turns the initial superposition not into a definite outcome but into a greater probability for it. The probability can approach 100%, yet the measurement can undergo complete quantum erasure. In the EPR setting, we prove that i) every partial measurement nonlocally creates the same partial change in the distant particle; and ii) every erasure inflicts the same erasure on the distant particle's state. This enables an EPR experiment where the nonlocal effect does not vanish after a single measurement but keeps "traveling" back and forth between particles. We study an experiment in which two distant particles are subjected to interferometry with a partial "which path" measurement. Such a measurement causes a variable amount of correlation between the particles. A new inequality is formulated for same-angle polarizations, extending Bell's inequality for different angles. The resulting nonlocality proof is highly visualizable, as it rests entirely on the interference effect. Partial measurement also gives rise to a new form of entanglement, where the particles manifest correlations of multiple polarization directions. Another novelty in that the measurement to be erased is fully observable, in contrast to prevailing erasure techniques where it can never be observed. Some profound conceptual implications of our experiment are briefly pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0012092
title: Optimal conclusive teleportation of a d-dimensional unknown state
authors: W. Son, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim, Y.-J. Park
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure; figure corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 064304 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012092
abstract: We formulate a conclusive teleportation protocol for a system in d-dimensional Hilbert space utilizing the positive operator valued measurement at the sending station. The conclusive teleportation protocol ensures some perfect teleportation events when the channel is only partially entangled, at the expense of lowering the overall average fidelity. We find the change of the fidelity as optimizing the conclusive teleportation events and discuss how much information remains in the inconclusive parts of the teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0012093
title: The Chirality of Exceptional Points
authors: W.D. Heiss, H.L. Harney
comments: four pages, one postscript figure, to be submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012093
abstract: Exceptional points are singularities of the spectrum and wave functions which occur in connection with level repulsion. They are accessible in experiments using dissipative systems. It is shown that the wave function at an exceptional point is one specific superposition of two wave functions which are themselves specified by the exceptional point. The phase relation of this superposition brings about a chirality which should be detectable in an experiment.

id: quant-ph/0012094
title: Quantum Correlations in Two-Fermion Systems
authors: John Schliemann, J. Ignacio Cirac, Marek Kus, Maciej Lewenstein, Daniel Loss
comments: 9 pages, some typos corrected and introduction modified, version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 64, 022303 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012094
abstract: We characterize and classify quantum correlations in two-fermion systems having 2K single-particle states. For pure states we introduce the Slater decomposition and rank (in analogy to Schmidt decomposition and rank), i.e. we decompose the state into a combination of elementary Slater determinants formed by mutually orthogonal single-particle states. Mixed states can be characterized by their Slater number which is the minimal Slater rank required to generate them. For K=2 we give a necessary and sufficient condition for a state to have a Slater number of 1. We introduce a correlation measure for mixed states which can be evaluated analytically for K=2. For higher K, we provide a method of constructing and optimizing Slater number witnesses, i.e. operators that detect Slater number for some states.

id: quant-ph/0012095
title: Proposal of an experimental scheme for realising a translucent eavesdropping on a quantum cryptographic channel
authors: M.Genovese
comments: in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 63 (2001) 044303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012095
abstract: Purpose of this paper is to suggest a scheme, which can be realised with today's technology and could be used for entangling a probe to a photon qubit based on polarisation. Using this probe a translucent or a coherent eavesdropping can be performed.

id: quant-ph/0012096
title: Time evolution and squeezing of the field amplitude in cavity QED
authors: J.E. Reiner, W.P. Smith, L.A. Orozco, H.J. Carmichael, P.R. Rice
comments: 12 pages. Submitted to JOSAB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012096
abstract: We present the conditional time evolution of the electromagnetic field produced by a cavity QED system in the strongly coupled regime. We obtain the conditional evolution through a wave-particle correlation function that measures the time evolution of the field after the detection of a photon. A connection exists between this correlation function and the spectrum of squeezing which permits the study of squeezed states in the time domain. We calculate the spectrum of squeezing from the master equation for the reduced density matrix using both the quantum regression theorem and quantum trajectories. Our calculations not only show that spontaneous emission degrades the squeezing signal, but they also point to the dynamical processes that cause this degradation.

id: quant-ph/0012097
title: Comment on "Proposal for the Measurement of Bell-Type Correlations from Continuous Variables"
authors: K. Banaszek, I. A. Walmsley, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: 2 pages, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012097
abstract: In a recent paper [T. C. Ralph, W. J. Munro, R. E. S. Polkinghorne, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2035 (2000)], the authors propose a test for Bell's inequalities based on quadrature measurements for a correlated parametric source. We present here a local hidden variable model which reproduces all the expectation values predicted in the described experimental scheme, and point out that the proposal is based on an inconsistent use of Bell's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0012098
title: Dynamical Stability of an Ion in a Linear Trap as a Solid-State Problem of Electron Localization
authors: G.P. Berman, A.R. Bishop, D.F.V. James, R.J. Hughes, D.I. Kamenev
comments: 18 pages RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012098
abstract: When an ion confined in a linear ion trap interacts with a coherent laser field, the internal degrees of freedom, related to the electron transitions, couple to the vibrational degree of freedom of the ion. As a result of this interaction, quantum dynamics of the vibrational degree of freedom becomes complicated, and in some ranges of parameters even chaotic. We analyze the vibrational ion dynamics using a formal analogy with the solid-state problem of electron localization. In particular, we show how the resonant approximation used in analysis of the ion dynamics, leads to a transition from a two-dimensional (2D) to a one-dimensional problem (1D) of electron localization. The localization length in the solid-state problem is estimated in cases of weak and strong interaction between the cites of the 2D cell by using the methods of resonance perturbation theory, common in analysis of 1D time-dependent dynamical systems.

id: quant-ph/0012099
title: Coherent States For SU(3)
authors: Manu Mathur, Diptiman Sen
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 42 (2001) 4181-4196
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012099
abstract: We define coherent states for SU(3) using six bosonic creation and annihilation operators. These coherent states are explicitly characterized by six complex numbers with constraints. For the completely symmetric representations (n,0) and (0,m), only three of the bosonic operators are required. For mixed representations (n,m), all six operators are required. The coherent states provide a resolution of identity, satisfy the continuity property, and possess a variety of group theoretic properties. We introduce an explicit parameterization of the group SU(3) and the corresponding integration measure. Finally, we discuss the path integral formalism for a problem in which the Hamiltonian is a function of SU(3) operators at each site.

id: quant-ph/0012100
title: Probabilistic Quantum Memories
authors: Carlo A. Trugenberger
comments: Revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012100
abstract: Typical address-oriented computer memories cannot recognize incomplete or noisy information. Associative (content-addressable) memories solve this problem but suffer from severe capacity shortages. I propose a model of a quantum memory that solves both problems. The storage capacity is exponential in the number of qbits and thus optimal. The retrieval mechanism for incomplete or noisy inputs is probabilistic, with postselection of the measurement result. The output is determined by a probability distribution on the memory which is peaked around the stored patterns closest in Hamming distance to the input.

id: quant-ph/0012101
title: Induced measures in the space of mixed quantum states
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Hans-Juergen Sommers
comments: 12 latex pages, 2 figures in epsf, submited to J. Phys. A. ver.3, some improvements and a few references added
journal: J. Phys. A34, 7111-7125 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012101
abstract: We analyze several product measures in the space of mixed quantum states. In particular we study measures induced by the operation of partial tracing. The natural, rotationally invariant measure on the set of all pure states of a N x K composite system, induces a unique measure in the space of N x N mixed states (or in the space of K x K mixed states, if the reduction takes place with respect to the first subsystem). For K=N the induced measure is equal to the Hilbert-Schmidt measure, which is shown to coincide with the measure induced by singular values of non-Hermitian random Gaussian matrices pertaining to the Ginibre ensemble. We compute several averages with respect to this measure and show that the mean entanglement of $N \times N$ pure states behaves as lnN-1/2.

id: quant-ph/0012102
title: Non-holonomic Quantum Devices
authors: V. M. Akulin, V. Gershkovich, G. Harel
comments: 8 revtex pages, 4 postscript figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012308 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012102
abstract: We analyze the possibility and efficiency of non-holonomic control over quantum devices with exponentially large number of Hilbert space dimensions. We show that completely controllable devices of this type can be assembled from elementary units of arbitrary physical nature, and can be employed efficiently for universal quantum computations and simulation of quantum field dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0012103
title: Decay of an excited atom near an absorbing microsphere
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures, REVTEX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 013804 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012103
abstract: Spontaneous decay of an excited atom near a dispersing and absorbing microsphere of given complex permittivity that satisfies the Kramers-Kronig relations is studied, with special emphasis on a Drude-Lorentz permittivity. Both the whispering gallery field resonances below the band gap (for a dielectric sphere) and the surface-guided field resonances inside the gap (for a dielectric or a metallic sphere) are considered. Since the decay rate mimics the spectral density of the sphere-assisted ground-state fluctuation of the radiation field, the strengths and widths of the field resonances essentially determine the feasible enhancement of spontaneous decay. In particular, strong enhancement can be observed for transition frequencies within the interval in which the surface-guided field resonances strongly overlap. When material absorption becomes significant, then the highly structured emission pattern that can be observed when radiative losses dominate reduces to that of a strongly absorbing mirror. Accordingly, nonradiative decay becomes dominant. In particular, if the distance between the atom and the surface of the microsphere is small enough, the decay becomes purely nonradiative.

id: quant-ph/0012104
title: Finding cliques by quantum adiabatic evolution
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann
comments: 11 pages, 4 EPS figures, REVTeX
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 2, 181 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012104
abstract: Quantum adiabatic evolution provides a general technique for the solution of combinatorial search problems on quantum computers. We present the results of a numerical study of a particular application of quantum adiabatic evolution, the problem of finding the largest clique in a random graph. An n-vertex random graph has each edge included with probability 1/2, and a clique is a completely connected subgraph. There is no known classical algorithm that finds the largest clique in a random graph with high probability and runs in a time polynomial in n. For the small graphs we are able to investigate (n <= 18), the quantum algorithm appears to require only a quadratic run time.

id: quant-ph/0012105
title: Geometric quantization and the generalized Segal-Bargmann transform for Lie groups of compact type
authors: Brian C. Hall
comments: Final version. To appear in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. Vol. 226 (2002), pp. 233-268
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012105
abstract: Let K be a connected Lie group of compact type and let T*(K) be its cotangent bundle. This paper considers geometric quantization of T*(K), first using the vertical polarization and then using a natural Kahler polarization obtained by identifying T*(K) with the complexified group K_C. The first main result is that the Hilbert space obtained by using the Kahler polarization is naturally identifiable with the generalized Segal-Bargmann space introduced by the author from a different point of view, namely that of heat kernels. The second main result is that the pairing map of geometric quantization coincides with the generalized Segal-Bargmann transform introduced by the author. This means that in this case the pairing map is a constant multiple of a unitary map. For both results it is essential that the half-form correction be included when using the Kahler polarization. Together with results of the author with B. Driver, these results may be seen as an instance of "quantization commuting with reduction."

id: quant-ph/0012106
title: Avoiding Quantum Chaos in Quantum Computation
authors: G.P.Berman, F.Borgonovi, F.M.Izrailev, V.I.Tsifrinovich
comments: RevTex, 5 pages including 3 eps-figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 65 (2001) 015204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012106
abstract: We study a one-dimensional chain of nuclear $1/2-$spins in an external time-dependent magnetic field. This model is considered as a possible candidate for experimental realization of quantum computation. According to the general theory of interacting particles, one of the most dangerous effects is quantum chaos which can destroy the stability of quantum operations. According to the standard viewpoint, the threshold for the onset of quantum chaos due to an interaction between spins (qubits) strongly decreases with an increase of the number of qubits. Contrary to this opinion, we show that the presence of a magnetic field gradient helps to avoid quantum chaos which turns out to disappear with an increase of the number of qubits. We give analytical estimates which explain this effect, together with numerical data supporting

id: quant-ph/0012107
title: Generalized Neutrino Equations from the Einstein Postulate
authors: Valeri V. Dvoeglazov
comments: RevTeX file, 6pp., no figures, cf. quant-ph/9911110
journal: Spacetime and Substance 3 (2002) 28-30
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012107
abstract: I discuss generalized spin-1/2 massless equations for neutrinos. They have been obtained by Gersten's method for derivation of arbitrary-spin equations. Possible physical consequences are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0012108
title: Liquid state NMR Quantum Computing
authors: Lieven M.K. Vandersypen, Costantino S. Yannoni, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: Final version, to appear in the Encyclopedia of NMR supplement (Ed. Grant & Harris). Stylistic changes, added a few references. 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012108
abstract: This in an introduction on quantum computing and on the use of NMR to build quantum computers, geared towards an NMR audience.

id: quant-ph/0012109
title: Interferometric Tests of Teleportation
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A 65, 012319 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012109
abstract: We investigate a direct test of teleportation efficacy based on a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The analysis is performed for continuous variable teleportation of both discrete and continuous observables.

id: quant-ph/0012110
title: Entanglement Teleportation Through Cat-like States
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Anirban Roy, Debasis Sarkar, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 7 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012110
abstract: We first consider teleportation of entangled states shared between Claire and Alice to Bob1 and Bob2 when Alice and the two Bobs share a single copy of a GHZ-class state and where {\it all} the four parties are at distant locations. We then generalize this situation to the case of teleportation of entangled states shared between Claire1, Claire2, ....., Claire(N-1) and Alice to Bob1, Bob2, ....., BobN when Alice and the N Bobs share a single copy of a Cat-like state and where again {\it all} the 2N parties are at distant locations.

id: quant-ph/0012111
title: Quantum error-correcting codes associated with graphs
authors: D. Schlingemann, R.F. Werner
comments: 8 pages revtex, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012111
abstract: We present a construction scheme for quantum error correcting codes. The basic ingredients are a graph and a finite abelian group, from which the code can explicitly be obtained. We prove necessary and sufficient conditions for the graph such that the resulting code corrects a certain number of errors. This allows a simple verification of the 1-error correcting property of fivefold codes in any dimension. As new examples we construct a large class of codes saturating the singleton bound, as well as a tenfold code detecting 3 errors.

id: quant-ph/0012112
title: Quantum simulated annealing
authors: Steve Huntsman
comments: 5 pages, pdf only [Finally deleted a blooper paragraph about expected runtimes that is only true for Euclidean TSP and has a bum eqn anyway. Does not affect anything that matters (temperature v precision etc)]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012112
abstract: The question of whether or not quantum computers can efficiently solve NP-complete problems is open, although indications are that BQP does not contain NP. Still, many of these problems are natural candidates for solution on quantum computers. We outline a thermodynamical formalism for the traveling salesman problem which allows for its expected polytime solution on a quantum computer with probability arbitrarily close to unity, given sufficient energy resources and subject to a weak nondegeneracy constraint on the distances. Applications to other problems are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0012113
title: Continuously induced coherence without induced emission
authors: J. Rehacek, L. Mista Jr, J. Fiurasek, J. Perina
comments: about 9 pages including 7 figures. The continuously coupled downconvertors are now linked to both the experiment on the induced coherence without induced emission and the two-photon interferometer of Ou, Wang, Zou and Mandel
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012113
abstract: The coherence properties of two downconversion processes continuously coupled via idler beams are analyzed. We find that the amount of which-way information about a signal photon carried by idler beams periodically attains its maximum and minimum in the course of evolution. In correspondence with the famous experiments by Mandel's group on the induced coherence without induced emission the coherence of signal beams is governed by that information. The ideal which-way measurement is constructed.

id: quant-ph/0012114
title: Implementation of a quantum algorithm to solve Bernstein-Vazirani's parity problem without entanglement on an ensemble quantum computer
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Mingjun Shi, Jihui Wu, Xianyi Zhou, Yangmei Fan, BangJiao Ye, Rongdian Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012114
abstract: Bernstein and Varizani have given the first quantum algorithm to solve parity problem in which a strong violation of the classical imformation theoritic bound comes about. In this paper, we refine this algorithm with fewer resource and implement a two qubits algorithm in a single query on an ensemble quantum computer for the first time.

id: quant-ph/0012115
title: Entropy and information gain in quantum continual measurements
authors: Alberto Barchielli
comments: 8 pages. Submitted to Proceedings of "Quantum Communication, Computing, and Measurements (Capri, Italy, July 2000)"
journal: Quantum Communication, Computing, and Measurement 3, P. Tombesi and O. Hirota (eds.) (Kluwer, New York, 2001) pp. 49-57
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012115
abstract: The theory of measurements continuous in time in quantum mechanics (quantum continual measurements) has been formulated by using the notions of instrument, positive operator valued measure, etc., by using quantum stochastic differential equations and by using classical stochastic differential equations (SDE's) for vectors in Hilbert spaces or for trace-class operators. In the same times Ozawa made developments in the theory of instruments and introduced the related notions of a posteriori states and of information gain [1]. In this paper we introduce a simple class of SDE's relevant to the theory of continual measurements and we recall how they are related to instruments and a posteriori states and, so, to the general formulation of quantum mechanics. Then we introduce and use the notion of information gain and the other results of the paper [1] inside the theory of continual measurements. [1] M. Ozawa, On information gain by quantum measurements of continuous observables, J. Math. Phys. 27 (1986) 759-763.

id: quant-ph/0012116
title: Quantum Entanglement and Quantum Computational Algorithms
authors: Arvind
comments: 9-pages latex, lecture given at the International Winter Institute on Foundations of Quantum Theory and Quantum Optics, SNBNCBS, Calcutta, India
journal: Pramana Jr. of Physics 56, 357-365 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012116
abstract: The existence of entangled quantum states gives extra power to quantum computers over their classical counterparts. Quantum entanglement shows up qualitatively at the level of two qubits. We show that if no entanglement is envolved then whatever one can do with qubits can also be done with classical optical systems. We demonstrate that the one- and the two-bit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm does not require entanglement and can be mapped onto a classical optical scheme. It is only for three and more input bits that the DJ algorithm requires the implementation of entangling transformations and in these cases it is impossible to implement this algorithm classically.

id: quant-ph/0012117
title: Exactly Solvable Three-body SUSY Systems with Internal Degrees of Freedom
authors: F.Cannata, M.Ioffe
comments: 13 pages, LATEX
journal: J.Phys.A34:1129-1140,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012117
abstract: The approach of multi-dimensional SUSY Quantum Mechanics is used in an explicit construction of exactly solvable 3-body (and quasi-exactly-solvable $N$-body) matrix problems on a line. From intertwining relations with time-dependent operators, we build exactly solvable non-stationary scalar and $2\times 2$ matrix 3-body models which are time-dependent extensions of the Calogero model. Finally, we investigate the invariant operators associated to these systems.

id: quant-ph/0012118
title: Teleporting Noncommuting Qubits Require Maximal Entanglement
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Anirban Roy, Debasis Sarkar, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012118
abstract: Very recently, it was shown by Ghosh, Kar, Roy and Sen (\emph{Entanglement vs. Noncommutativity in Teleportation}, quant-ph/0010012) that if it is \emph{a priori} known that the state to be teleported is from a commuting set of qubits, a separable channel is sufficient. We show that 1 ebit of entanglement is a necessary resource to teleport a qubit even when it is known to be one of two noncommuting states.

id: quant-ph/0012119
title: Limits to error correction in quantum chaos
authors: P.G. Silvestrov, H. Schomerus, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 86, 5192 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012119
abstract: We study the correction of errors that have accumulated in an entangled state of spins as a result of unknown local variations in the Zeeman energy (B) and spin-spin interaction energy (J). A non-degenerate code with error rate kappa can recover the original state with high fidelity within a time kappa^1/2 / max(B,J) -- independent of the number of encoded qubits. Whether the Hamiltonian is chaotic or not does not affect this time scale, but it does affect the complexity of the error-correcting code.

id: quant-ph/0012120
title: Satisfying Reality
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, appearing in IYYUN, The Jerusalem Philosophical Quarterly 50 (January 2001), 1-19. The abstract is amended 12/27/00
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012120
abstract: It is claimed elsewhere that the conscious states of humans must have evolved together with their biological states, and that an ongoing interaction between the two must have occurred to insure that they mirror one another in any species. A quantum mechanical mechanism and an evolutionary model for the assumed mind/body interaction are described in those papers. The present paper outlines the related ontological and epistemological assumptions, showing how the claimed connection between conscious states and physical states should be understood. Keywords: consciousness, Copenhagen, epistemology, form, Godel, matter, monism, objective reality, post modernism, psychology, subjective reality, TOE, undecidability, universals

id: quant-ph/0012121
title: No-cloning theorem and teleportation criteria for quantum continuous variables
authors: Frdric Grosshans, Philippe Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 010301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012121
abstract: We discuss the criteria presently used for evaluating the efficiency of quantum teleportation schemes for continuous variables. Using an argument based upon the difference between 1-to-2 quantum cloning (quantum duplication) and 1-to-infinity cloning (classical measurement), we show that a fidelity value larger than 2/3 is required for successful quantum teleportation of coherent states. This value has not been reached experimentally so far.

id: quant-ph/0012122
title: Contextual objectivity : a realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Philippe Grangier
comments: Improved version, submitted to the European Journal of Physics - 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012122
abstract: An attempt is made to formulate quantum mechanics (QM) in physical rather than in mathematical terms. It is argued that the appropriate conceptual framework for QM is "contextual objectivity", which includes an objective definition of the quantum state. This point of view sheds new light on topics such as the reduction postulate and the quantum measurement process.

id: quant-ph/0012123
title: Superluminal Motion in The interacting System of Electrons, Positrons and Photons
authors: T. M. Gassym
comments: 19 pp, no figures, LaTex formatted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012123
abstract: The coupled system of Boltzman equations for the interacting system of electrons, positrons and photons in high external electric, E, and arbitrary magnetic, H, fields is solved. The consideration is made under the conditions of arbitrary heating and the mutual drag of carriers and photons. The non-stationary and non-uniform distribution function of photons for the all considered cases is obtained. It is shown that the distribution function of photons has the stationary limit for the drift velocities $(\vec{u}\vec{q}/ \hbar \omega_q) <1 $ and grows exponentially with time for the drift velocities $(\vec{u}\vec{q}/ \hbar \omega_q) \geq 1$. As a result of the analyses of the phenomena of coupling of the mutual drag system of carriers with the photons, we obtained some fundamental results: {\bf a)} the finiteness of the mass of photon (i.e. the rest mass of the photons is not zero); {\bf b)} reality of tachyons as a quasi-particles with a real mass in amplifying system (or regime); {\bf c)} the mechanism of the theory of relativity and that of the Doppler effect which coincides with the renormalization of frequency or mass as a result of the mutual drag of carriers and photons at external field (force) are the same. These conclusions were obtained as a result of the fact that the relativistic factor enters the expressions of the distribution function of photons and other physical expressions in the first order in the form $[1-(u^2/c^2) ]^{-1}$, but not in the form $[1-(u^2/c^2) ]^{-1/2}$ as in Einstein's theory. Also it is shown that the velocity of light is an average velocity of photons in the ground state.

id: quant-ph/0012124
title: Simultaneous minimum-uncertainty measurement of discrete-valued complementary observables
authors: Alexei Trifonov, Gunnar Bjork, Jonas Soderholm
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (2001) 4423-4426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012124
abstract: We have made the first experimental demonstration of the simultaneous minimum uncertainty product between two complementary observables for a two-state system (a qubit). A partially entangled two-photon state was used to perform such measurements. Each of the photons carries (partial) information of the initial state thus leaving a room for measurements of two complementary observables on every member in an ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0012125
title: Luttinger model approach to interacting one-dimensional fermions in a harmonic trap
authors: W. Wonneberger
comments: 12 pages latex, 1 eps-figure in 1 tar file, extended Appendix, added and corrected references, new eq. (53), corrected typos, accepted for PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012125
abstract: A model of interacting one--dimensional fermions confined to a harmonic trap is proposed. The model is treated analytically to all orders of the coupling constant by a method analogous to that used for the Luttinger model. As a first application, the particle density is evaluated and the behavior of Friedel oscillations under the influence of interactions is studied. It is found that attractive interactions tend to suppress the Friedel oscillations while strong repulsive interactions enhance the Friedel oscillations significantly. The momentum distribution function and the relation of the model interaction to realistic pair interactions are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0012126
title: Entanglement Optimization for Pairs of Qubits
authors: Juliane Strassner, Christopher Witte
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures,RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012126
abstract: Local Operations enhancing the entanglement of bipartite quantum states are of great interest in quantum information processing. Subject of this paper are local selective operations acting on single copies of states. Such operations can lead to larger entanglement with respect to a certain measure as studies before by the Horodeckis and A. Kent et al. (PRA 60,PRL 81 and 83). We present a complete characterisation of all local operations yielding optimal entanglement for pairs of qubits, extending former results of A. Kent et al. We introduce a new technique for the classification of states according to their behaviour under entanglement optimizing operations, using the entanglement properties of the support of density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0012127
title: Strong Converse for Identification via Quantum Channels
authors: R. Ahlswede, A. Winter
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX2e, requires IEEEtran2e.cls. Some errors and omissions corrected, references updated
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 48(3) :569--579, 2002. Addendum ibid 49(1):346, 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012127
abstract: In this paper we present a simple proof of the strong converse for identification via discrete memoryless quantum channels, based on a novel covering lemma. The new method is a generalization to quantum communication channels of Ahlswede's recently discovered appoach to classical channels. It involves a development of explicit large deviation estimates to the case of random variables taking values in selfadjoint operators on a Hilbert space. This theory is presented separately in an appendix, and we illustrate it by showing its application to quantum generalizations of classical hypergraph covering problems.

id: quant-ph/0012128
title: Compression of quantum measurement operations
authors: A. Winter, S. Massar
comments: RevTeX, 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012311 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012128
abstract: We generalize recent work of Massar and Popescu dealing with the amount of classical data that is produced by a quantum measurement on a quantum state ensemble. In the previous work it was shown how spurious randomness generally contained in the outcomes can be eliminated without decreasing the amount of knowledge, to achieve an amount of data equal to the von Neumann entropy of the ensemble. Here we extend this result by giving a more refined description of what constitute equivalent measurements (that is measurements which provide the same knowledge about the quantum state) and also by considering incomplete measurements. In particular we show that one can always associate to a POVM with elements a_j, an equivalent POVM acting on many independent copies of the system which produces an amount of data asymptotically equal to the entropy defect of an ensemble canonically associated to the ensemble average state and the initial measurement (a_j). In the case where the measurement is not maximally refined this amount of data is strictly less than the von Neumann entropy, as obtained in the previous work. We also show that this is the best achievable, i.e. it is impossible to devise a measurement equivalent to the initial measurement (a_j) that produces less data. We discuss the interpretation of these results. In particular we show how they can be used to provide a precise and model independent measure of the amount of knowledge that is obtained about a quantum state by a quantum measurement. We also discuss in detail the relation between our results and Holevo's bound, at the same time providing a new proof of this fundamental inequality.

id: quant-ph/0012129
title: Test Particle in a Quantum Gas
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 9 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 63 (2001) 066115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012129
abstract: A master equation with a Lindblad structure is derived, which describes the interaction of a test particle with a macroscopic system and is expressed in terms of the operator valued dynamic structure factor of the system. In the case of a free Fermi or Bose gas the result is evaluated in the Brownian limit, thus obtaining a single generator master equation for the description of quantum Brownian motion in which the correction due to quantum statistics is explicitly calculated. The friction coefficients for Boltzmann and Bose or Fermi statistics are compared.

id: quant-ph/0012130
title: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in the Friedrichs model
authors: I. Antoniou, E. Karpov, G. Pronko, E. Yarevsky
comments: References added. Appendix B shortened. Discussions extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012130
abstract: We analyze the short-time behavior of the survival probability in the frame of the Friedrichs model for different formfactors. We have shown that this probability is not necessary analytic at the time origin. The time when the quantum Zeno effect could be observed is found to be much smaller than usually estimated. We have also studied the anti-Zeno era and have estimated its duration.

id: quant-ph/0012131
title: Optimum unambiguous discrimination among linearly-independent non-orthogonal quantum states and its optical realization
authors: Yuqing Sun, Mark Hillery, Janos Bergou
comments: 10 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012131
abstract: The problem of unambiguously distinguishing among nonorthogonal but linearly independent quantum states can be solved by mapping the set of nonorthogonal quantum states onto a set of orthogonal ones, which can then be distinguished without error. Such nonunitary transformations can be performed conditionally on quantum systems; a unitary transformation is carried out on a larger system of which the system of interest is a subsytem, a measurement is performed, and if the proper result is obtained, the desired nonunitary transformation will have been performed on the subsystem. We show how to construct generalized interferometers (multiports), which when combined with measurements on some of the output ports, implement nonunitary transformations of this type. The input states are single-photon states in which the photon is divided among several modes. A number of explicit examples of distinguishing among three nonorthogonal states are discussed, and the networks that optimally distinguish among these states are presented.

id: quant-ph/0012132
title: Beyond Unruh Effect: Nonequilibrium Quantum Dynamics of Moving Charges
authors: B.L. Hu, Philip R. Johnson
comments: Invited talk given by BLH at the Capri Workshop on Quantum Aspects of Beam Physics, Oct. 2000. 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012132
abstract: We discuss some common misconceptions in Unruh effect and Unruh radiation for the cases of linear and circular uniform acceleration of a charged particle or detector moving in a quantum field. We point to the need to go beyond Unruh effect and develop a new theoretical framework for treating the stochastic dynamics of particles interacting with quantum fields under more general nonequilibrium conditions. This framework has been established in recent years using the influence functional formalism and applied to relativistically moving charged particles. Only with nonequilibrium concepts and methodology applied to particle-field interaction can one grasp the full complexity of the problems of beam physics under more realistic conditions, from electrons and heavy ions to coherent atoms.

id: quant-ph/0012133
title: Possibility for Teleportation of Nuclei
authors: B.F. Kostenko, V.D. Kuznetsov, M.B. Miller, A.V. Sermyagin, D.V. Kamanin
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012133
abstract: Experimental realizations of QT have so far been limited to teleportation of light. The present communication gives a new experimental scheme for QT of heavy matter. We show that the standard experimental technique used in nuclear physics may be successfully applied to teleportation of spin states of atomic nuclei. It was shown that there are no theoretical prohibitions upon a possibility of a complete Bell measurement, so that implementation of all four quantum communication channels is at least theoretically available. A general expression for scattering amplitude of two 1/2-spin particles was given in the Bell operator basis, and peculiarities of Bell states registration are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0012134
title: Is there emitted radiation in Unruh effect?
authors: B.L. Hu, Alpan Raval
comments: Invited talk given by BLH at Capri Workshop on Quantum Aspects of Beam Physics, Oct. 2000. 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012134
abstract: The thermal radiance felt by a uniformly accelerated detector/oscillator/atom--the Unruh effect-- is often mistaken to be some emitted radiation detectable by an observer/probe/sensor. Here we show by an explicit calculation of the energy momentum tensor of a quantum scalar field that, at least in 1+1 dimension, while a polarization cloud is found to exist around the particle trajectory, there is no emitted radiation from a uniformly accelerated oscillator in equilibrium conditions. Under nonequilibrium conditions which can prevail for non-uniformly accelerated trajectories or before the atom or oscillator reaches equilibrium, there is conceivably radiation emitted, but that is not what Unruh effect entails.

id: quant-ph/0012135
title: Worldline Influence Functional: Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac-Langevin Equation from QED
authors: Philip R. Johnson, B.L. Hu
comments: Talk given by PRJ at Capri Workshop on Quantum Aspects of Beam Physics, Oct. 2000. 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012135
abstract: We present a stochastic theory of charges moving in an electromagnetic field using nonequilibrium quantum field theory. We give a first principles' derivation of the Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac-Langevin equation which depicts the quantum expectation value for a particle's trajectory and its stochastic fluctuations by combining the worldline path integral quantization with the Feynman-Vernon influence functional or closed-time-path effective action methods. At lowest order, the equations of motion are approximated by a stochastic Lorentz-Dirac equation.

id: quant-ph/0012136
title: Resonantly enhanced nonlinear optics in semiconductor quantum wells: An application to sensitive infrared detection
authors: S. F. Yelin, P. R. Hemmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, replaced with revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012136
abstract: A novel class of coherent nonlinear optical phenomena, involving induced transparency in quantum wells, is considered in the context of a particular application to sensitive long-wavelength infrared detection. It is shown that the strongest decoherence mechanisms can be suppressed or mitigated, resulting in substantial enhancement of nonlinear optical effects in semiconductor quantum wells.

id: quant-ph/0012137
title: Stochastic Theory of Relativistic Particles Moving in a Quantum Field: I. Influence Functional and Langevin Equation
authors: Philip R. Johnson, B.L. Hu
comments: RevTex: 32 pages, 3 figures. Replaced version has corrected typos, slightly modified derivation, and improved discussion including new section with comparisons to related work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012137
abstract: We treat a relativistically moving particle interacting with a quantum field from an open system viewpoint of quantum field theory by the method of influence functionals or closed-time-path coarse-grained effective actions. The particle trajectory is not prescribed but is determined by the backreaction of the quantum field in a self-consistent way. Coarse-graining the quantum field imparts stochastic behavior in the particle trajectory. The formalism is set up here as a precursor to a first principles derivation of the Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac (ALD) equation from quantum field theory as the correct equation of motion valid in the semiclassical limit. This approach also discerns classical radiation reaction from quantum dissipation in the motion of a charged particle; only the latter is related to vacuum fluctuations in the quantum field by a fluctuation-dissipation relation, which we show to exist for nonequilibrim processes under this type of nonlinear coupling. This formalism leads naturally to a set of Langevin equations associated with a generalized ALD equation. These multiparticle stochastic differential equations feature local dissipation (for massless quantum fields), nonlocal particle-particle interactions, multiplicative noise, and nonlocal particle-particle correlations, interrelated in ways characteristic of nonlinear theories, through generalized fluctuation-dissipation relations.

id: quant-ph/0012138
title: Storage of light in atomic vapor
authors: D. F. Phillips, A. Fleischhauer, A. Mair, R. L. Walsworth, M. D. Lukin
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 86, 783 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012138
abstract: We report an experiment in which a light pulse is decelerated and trapped in a vapor of Rb atoms, stored for a controlled period of time, and then released on demand. We accomplish this storage of light by dynamically reducing the group velocity of the light pulse to zero, so that the coherent excitation of the light is reversibly mapped into a collective Zeeman (spin) coherence of the Rb vapor.

id: quant-ph/0012139
title: Unconditionally Secure Quantum Coin Tossing via Entanglement Swapping
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Withdraw. The scheme presented is insecure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012139
abstract: An unconditionally secure quantum cion tossing protocol for two remote participants via entangled swapping is presented. The security of this protocol is guaranteed by the nonlocal property of quantum entanglement and the classical complexity.

id: quant-ph/0012140
title: Wigner Functions with Boundaries
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures. Completely revised version, to appear in the J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 4602-4627
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012140
abstract: We consider the general Wigner function for a particle confined to a finite interval and subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions. We derive the boundary corrections to the "star-genvalue" equation and to the time evolution equation. These corrections can be cast in the form of a boundary potential contributing to the total Hamiltonian which together with a subsidiary boundary condition is responsible for the discretization of the energy levels. We show that a completely analogous formulation (in terms of boundary potentials) is also possible in standard operator quantum mechanics and that the Wigner and the operator formulations are also in one-to-one correspondence in the confined case. In particular, we extend Baker's converse construction to bounded systems. Finally, we elaborate on the applications of the formalism to the subject of Wigner trajectories, namely in the context of collision processes and quantum systems displaying chaotic behavior in the classical limit.

id: quant-ph/0012141
title: Classification of transformations of probabilities for preparation procedures: trigonometric and hyperbolic behaviours
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012141
abstract: We provide frequency probabilistic analysis of perturbations of physical systems by preparation procedures. We obtained the classification of possible probabilistic transformations connecting input and output probabilities that can appear in physical experiments. We found that so called quantum probabilistic rule is just one of possible rules. Besides the well known trigonometric transformation (for example, for the polarization of light), there exist the hyperbolic transformation of probabilities. In fact, `hyperbolic polarization' have laready been observed in experiments with elementary particles. However, it was not interpreted in such a way. The situation is more complex with the hyperbolic interference of alternatives.

id: quant-ph/0012142
title: The information capacity of the lambda-system--photon field channel
authors: Boris Grishanin, Victor Zadkov
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX
journal: Laser Physics, vol. 10, No. 6, 1280-1285 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012142
abstract: The potentially attainable information capacity of a radiatively stable lambda-system, viewed as the input of a quantum information channel, is studied. The output of the channel is formed by the states of the photon field with optical excitation frequencies, which are created as a result of Raman pumping. The analysis is based on the notion of coherent information.

id: quant-ph/0012143
title: A Generalization of Grover's Algorithm
authors: Luigi Accardi, Ruben Sabbadini
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012143
abstract: We investigate the necessary and sufficient conditions in order that a unitary operator can amplify a pre-assigned component relative to a particular basis of a generic vector at the expense of the other components. This leads to a general method which allows, given a vector and one of its components we want to amplify, to choose the optimal unitary operator which realizes that goal. Grover's quantum algorithm is shown to be a particular case of our general method. However the general structure of the unitary we find is remarkably similar to that of Grover's one: a sign flip of one component combined with a reflection with respect to a vector. In Grover's case this vector is fixed; in our case it depends on a parameter and this allows optimization.

id: quant-ph/0012144
title: Quantum Fluctuations of Radiation Pressure
authors: Chun-Hsien Wu, L. H. Ford
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, RevTex
journal: Phys.Rev. D64 (2001) 045010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012144
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of electromagnetic radiation pressure are discussed. We use an approach based on the quantum stress tensor to calculate the fluctuations in velocity and position of a mirror subjected to electromagnetic radiation. Our approach reveals that radiation pressure fluctuations are due to a cross term between vacuum and state dependent terms in a stress tensor operator product. Thus observation of these fluctuations would entail experimental confirmation of this cross term. We first analyze the pressure fluctuations on a single, perfectly reflecting mirror, and then study the case of an interferometer. This involves a study of the effects of multiple bounces in one arm, as well as the correlations of the pressure fluctuations between arms of the interferometer. In all cases, our results are consistent with those previously obtained by Caves using different mehods.

id: quant-ph/0012145
title: Remarks on Lewenstein-Sanpera Decomposition
authors: Mingjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012145
abstract: We discuss in this letter Lewenstein-Sanpera (L-S) decomposition for a specific Werner state. Compared with the optimal case, we propose a quasi-optimal one which in the view of concurrence leads to the same entanglement measure for the entangled mixed state discussed. We think that in order to obtain entanglement of given state the optimal L-S decomposition is not necessary.

id: quant-ph/0012146
title: Landau Levels in the Presence of Topological Defects
authors: G. de A. Marques, Claudio Furtado, V. B. Bezerra, Fernando Moraes
comments: 17 pages, LATEX file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012146
abstract: We study the Landau levels associated with electrons moving in a magnetic field in the presence of a continuous distribution of disclinations, a magnetic screw dislocation and a dispiration. We focus on the influence of these topological defects on the spectrum of the electron(or hole) in a magnetic field in the framework of the geometric theory of defects in solids of Katanaev and Volovich. The presence of the defects breaks the degeneracy of the Landau levels in different ways depending on the defect. Exact expressions for energies and eigenfuctions are found for all cases.

id: quant-ph/0012147
title: High-Precision Value for the Quartic Anharmonic Oscillator Ground State
authors: Michael Trott
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012147
abstract: We will describe how a new, quite simple, but highly effective algorithm, together with the asymptotically fast FFT-based high-precision number multiplication of Mathematica 4 can calculate the ground state of the x^4 anharmonic oscillator to the new record of more than 1000 digits.

id: quant-ph/0012148
title: Non-local Operations: Purification, storage, compression, tomography, and probabilistic implementation
authors: W. Dr, J. I. Cirac
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012317 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012148
abstract: We provide several applications of a previously introduced isomorphism between physical operations acting on two systems and entangled states [1]. We show: (i) how to implement (weakly) non-local two qubit unitary operations with a small amount of entanglement; (ii) that a known, noisy, non-local unitary operation as well as an unknown, noisy, local unitary operation can be purified; (iii) how to perform the tomography of arbitrary, unknown, non-local operations; (iv) that a set of local unitary operations as well as a set of non-local unitary operations can be stored and compressed; (v) how to implement probabilistically two-qubit gates for photons. We also show how to compress a set of bipartite entangled states locally, as well as how to implement certain non-local measurements using a small amount of entanglement. Finally, we generalize some of our results to multiparty systems.

id: quant-ph/0012149
title: Quantum Database Search can do without Sorting
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 4 pages, revtex. The analysis presented here led to quant-ph/0002037. (v2) Substantially expanded to clarify various statements. (v3) Typos corrected. Version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A64 (2001) 034303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012149
abstract: Sorting is a fundamental computational process, which facilitates subsequent searching of a database. It can be thought of as factorisation of the search process. The location of a desired item in a sorted database can be found by classical queries that inspect one letter of the label at a time. For an unsorted database, no such classical quick search algorithm is available. If the database permits quantum queries, however, then mere digitisation is sufficient for efficient search. Sorting becomes redundant with the quantum superposition of states. A quantum algorithm is written down which locates the desired item in an unsorted database a factor of two faster than the best classical algorithm can in a sorted database. This algorithm has close resemblance to the assembly process in DNA replication.

id: quant-ph/0012150
title: Coherent Control of Quantum Chaotic Diffusion
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1741 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012150
abstract: Extensive coherent control over quantum chaotic diffusion using the kicked rotor model is demonstrated and its origin in deviations from random matrix theory is identified. Further, the extent of control in the presence of external decoherence is established. The results are relevant to both areas of quantum chaos and coherent control.

id: quant-ph/0012151
title: General approach to potentials with two known levels
authors: S. N. Dolya, O. B. Zaslavskii
comments: 14 pages, REVTeX 3.0. In v.2 misprints and inaccuracies in presentation corrected, discussion of 3-dim. case added. In v.3 misprint in eq. 41, several typos and inaccuracies in English corrected. To be published in J. of Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys.A34:1981-1990,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0012151
abstract: We present the general form of potentials with two given energy levels $E_{1}$, $E_{2}$ and find corresponding wave functions. These entities are expressed in terms of one function $\xi (x)$ and one parameter $\Delta E=E_{2}$-$E_{1}$. We show how the quantum numbers of both levels depend on properties of the function $\xi (x)$. Our approach does not need resorting to the technique of supersymmetric (SUSY) quantum mechanics but automatically generates both the potential and superpotential.

id: astro-ph/0012148
title: Magnetic field effects on the thermonuclear combustion front of Chandrasekhar mass white dwarfs
authors: Cristian R. Ghezzi, Elisabete M. de Gouveia Dal Pino, Jorge E. Horvath
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, accepted by ApJ Letters
journal: Astrophys.J. 548 (2001) L193-L196
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0012148
abstract: The explosion of a type Ia supernova starts in a white dwarf as a laminar deflagration at the center of the star and soon several hydrodynamic instabilities, in particular, the Rayleigh-Taylor instability, begin to act. A cellular stationary combustion and a turbulent combustion regime are rapidly achieved by the flame and maintained up to the end of the so-called flamelet regime when the transition to detonation is believed to occur. The burning velocity at these regimes is well described by the fractal model of combustion. Using a semi-analytic approach, we describe the effect of magnetic fields on the fractalization of the front considering a white dwarf with a nearly dipolar magnetic field. We find an intrinsic asymmetry on the velocity field that may be maintained up to the free expansion phase of the remnant. Considering the strongest values inferred for a white dwarf's magnetic fields with strengths up to $10^{8}-10^{9}$ G at the surface and assuming that the field near the centre is roughly 10 times greater, asymmetries in the velocity field higher than $10-20 %$ are produced between the magnetic polar and the equatorial axis of the remnant which may be related to the asymmetries found from recent spectropolarimetric observations of very young SN Ia remnants. Dependence of the asymmetry with white dwarf composition is also analyzed.

id: cond-mat/0012185
title: Computational Complexity for Physicists
authors: Stephan Mertens
comments: references updated, reprint available from this http URL
journal: Computing in Science & Engineering vol. 4, no. 3, May/June 2002, pp 31-47
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012185
abstract: These lecture notes are an informal introduction to the theory of computational complexity and its links to quantum computing and statistical mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0012334
title: Quantum Algorithms for Fermionic Simulations
authors: G. Ortiz, J.E. Gubernatis, E. Knill, R. Laflamme
comments: 38 pages, 2 psfigure
journal: Phys.Rev.A64:022319,2001
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012334
abstract: We investigate the simulation of fermionic systems on a quantum computer. We show in detail how quantum computers avoid the dynamical sign problem present in classical simulations of these systems, therefore reducing a problem believed to be of exponential complexity into one of polynomial complexity. The key to our demonstration is the spin-particle connection (or generalized Jordan-Wigner transformation) that allows exact algebraic invertible mappings of operators with different statistical properties. We give an explicit implementation of a simple problem using a quantum computer based on standard qubits.

id: cond-mat/0012349
title: Mechanism of Magnetism in Stacked Nanographite: Theoretical Study
authors: Kikuo Harigaya, Naoki Kawatsu, Toshiaki Enoki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: in "Nanonetwork Materials: Fullerenes, Nanotubes, and Related Systems", (American Institute of Physics, 2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012349
abstract: Antiferromagnetism in stacked nanographite is investigated with using the Hubbard-type model. The A-B stacking is favorable for the hexagonal nanographite with zigzag edges, in order that magnetism appears. Next, we find that the open shell electronic structures can be origins of the decreasing magnetic moment with the decrease of the inter-graphene distance, as experiments on adsorption of molecules suggest.

id: cond-mat/0012354
title: Dark-Bright Solitons in Inhomogeneous Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Th. Busch, J.R. Anglin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012354
abstract: We investigate dark-bright vector solitary wave solutions to the coupled non-linear Schr\"odinger equations which describe an inhomogeneous two-species Bose-Einstein condensate. While these structures are well known in non-linear fiber optics, we show that spatial inhomogeneity strongly affects their motion, stability, and interaction, and that current technology suffices for their creation and control in ultracold trapped gases. The effects of controllably different interparticle scattering lengths, and stability against three-dimensional deformations, are also examined.

id: cond-mat/0012370
title: Fractional Electrons in Liquid Helium?
authors: R. Jackiw, C. Rebbi, J.R. Schrieffer
comments: 2 pages, plain.tex; email correspondence to jackiw@lns.mit.edu
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012370
abstract: We argue that electrons in liquid helium bubbles are not fractional, they are entangled.

id: cond-mat/0012379
title: Triggered single photons from a quantum dot
authors: Charles Santori, Matthew Pelton, Glenn Solomon, Yseulte Dale, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTex, to be published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1502 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012379
abstract: We demonstrate a new method for generating triggered single photons. After a laser pulse generates excitons inside of a single quantum dot, electrostatic interactions between them and the resulting spectral shifts allow a single emitted photon to be isolated. Autocorrelation measurements show a reduction of the two-photon probability to 0.12 times the value for Poisson light. Strong anti-bunching persists when the emission is saturated. The emitted photons are also polarized.

id: cond-mat/0012414
title: Uniform semiclassical approximation in quantum statistical mechanics
authors: C. A. A. de Carvalho, R. M. Cavalcanti, E. S. Fraga, S. E. Joras
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Latex. Contribution to the Proceedings of the XXI Brazilian National Meeting on Particles and Fields (Sao Lourenco, October 23-27, 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012414
abstract: We present a simple method to deal with caustics in the semiclassical approximation to the partition function of a one-dimensional quantum system. The procedure, which makes use of complex trajectories, is applied to the quartic double-well potential.

id: cond-mat/0012470
title: Indirect Interaction of Solid-State Qubits via Two-Dimensional Electron Gas
authors: Dima Mozyrsky, Vladimir Privman, M. Lawrence Glasser
comments: 12 pages in plain TeX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5112-5115 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012470
abstract: We propose a mechanism of long-range coherent coupling between nuclear spins to be used as qubits in solid-state semiconductor-heterojunction quantum information processing devices. The coupling is via localized donor electrons which in turn interact with the two-dimensional electron gas. An effective two-spin interaction Hamiltonian is derived and the coupling strength is evaluated. We also discuss mechanisms of qubit decoherence and consider possibilities for gate control of the interaction between neighboring qubits. The resulting quantum computing scheme retains all the gate-control and measurement aspects of earlier approaches, but allows qubit spacing at distances of order 100nm, attainable with the present-day semiconductor device technologies.

id: cond-mat/0012475
title: Test of Bell's Inequality using the Spin Filter Effect in Ferromagnetic Semiconductor Micro-structures
authors: Shiro Kawabata
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, submitted to J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 70 (2001) 1210.
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012475
abstract: A theoretical proposal for testing Bell's inequality in mesoscopic systems is presented. We show that the entanglement of two electron spins can be detected in the spin filter effect in the mesoscopic semiconductor / ferromagnetic semiconductor / semiconductor junction. The current-current correlation function is calculated by use of the quantum scattering theory and we compare it with the local hidden variable theory. We also discuss the influence of an imperfect spin filter and derive the condition to see the violation of Bell's inequality experimentally.

id: cond-mat/0012491
title: Periodic instanton method and macroscopic quantum tunneling between two weakly-linked Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Yunbo Zhang, H.J.W. Mller-Kirsten
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 023608(2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012491
abstract: A new method is used to investigate the tunneling between two weakly-linked Bose-Einstein condensates confined in double-well potential traps. The nonlinear interaction between the atoms in each well contributes to a finite chemical potential, which, with consideration of periodic instantons, leads to a remarkably high tunneling frequency. This result can be used to interpret the newly found Macroscopic Quantum Self Trapping (MQST) effect. Also a new kind of first-order crossover between different regions is predicted.

id: cond-mat/0012498
title: Quantization of Thermodynamics, Supersecondary Quantization, and a New Variational Principle
authors: V. P. Maslov
comments: 28 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0012498
abstract: In solving the problem of finding a temperature distribution which, at zero temperature, corresponds to superfluidity, i.e., to nonzero energy, the author tried to quantize free energy. This was done on the basis of supersecondary quantization whose special case is the usual secondary quantization for bosons and with the help of which new representations of the Schr\"odinger equation were obtained. The supersecondary quantization allowed the author to construct a variational method whose zero approximation are the Hartree-Fock and Bogolyubov-BCSch variational principles. This method works especially well in the case of not a large number of particles. The new quantization and the variational method are of general character and can be used in the quantum field theory.

id: cs/0012017
title: Towards Robust Quantum Computation
authors: Debbie W. Leung
comments: 243 pages, PhD Dissertation, Stanford University, July 2000
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0012017
abstract: Quantum computation is a subject of much theoretical promise, but has not been realized in large scale, despite the discovery of fault-tolerant procedures to overcome decoherence. Part of the reason is that the theoretically modest requirements still present daunting experimental challenges. The goal of this Dissertation is to reduce various resources required for robust quantum computation, focusing on quantum error correcting codes and solution NMR quantum computation. A variety of techniques have been developed, including high rate quantum codes for amplitude damping, relaxed criteria for quantum error correction, systematic construction of fault-tolerant gates, recipes for quantum process tomography, techniques in bulk thermal state computation, and efficient decoupling techniques to implement selective coupled logic gates. A detailed experimental study of a quantum error correcting code in NMR is also presented. The Dissertation clarifies and extends results previously reported in quant-ph/9610043, quant-ph/9704002, quant-ph/9811068, quant-ph/9904100, quant-ph/9906112, quant-ph/0002039. Additionally, a procedure for quantum process tomography using maximally entangled states, and a review on NMR quantum computation are included.

id: gr-qc/0012038
title: Covariant Geometric Prequantization of Fields
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 2pp, LaTeX2e, uses ws-p9-75x6-50.cls. Contributed paper to the IX Marcel Grossmann Meeting, Rome, Italy, July 2000 (to be published by World Scientific, Singapore). V2: the list of references updated
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0012038
abstract: A geometric prequantization formula for the Poisson-Gerstenhaber bracket of forms found within the DeDonder-Weyl Hamiltonian formalism earlier is presented. The related aspects of covariant geometric quantization of field theories are sketched. In particular, the importance of the framework of Clifford and spinor bundles and superconnections in this context is underlined.

id: gr-qc/0012076
title: Discrete Black-Hole Radiation and the Information Loss Paradox
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A299 (2002) 144-148
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0012076
abstract: Hawking's black hole information puzzle highlights the incompatibility between our present understanding of gravity and quantum physics. However, Hawking's prediction of black-hole evaporation is at a semiclassical level. One therefore suspects some modifications of the character of the radiation when quantum properties of the {\it black hole itself} are properly taken into account. In fact, during the last three decades evidence has been mounting that, in a quantum theory of gravity black holes may have a discrete mass spectrum, with concomitant {\it discrete} line emission. A direct consequence of this intriguing prediction is that, compared with blackbody radiation, black-hole radiance is {\it less} entropic, and may therefore carry a significant amount of {\it information}. Using standard ideas from quantum information theory, we calculate the rate at which information can be recovered from the black-hole spectral lines. We conclude that the information that was suspected to be lost may gradually leak back, encoded into the black-hole spectral lines.

id: hep-th/0012023
title: Nonlinear Supersymmetry, Quantum Anomaly and Quasi-Exactly Solvable Systems
authors: Sergey Klishevich, Mikhail Plyushchay
comments: 30 pages, references and comments added. To appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B606 (2001) 583-612
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0012023
abstract: The nonlinear supersymmetry of one-dimensional systems is investigated in the context of the quantum anomaly problem. Any classical supersymmetric system characterized by the nonlinear in the Hamiltonian superalgebra is symplectomorphic to a supersymmetric canonical system with the holomorphic form of the supercharges. Depending on the behaviour of the superpotential, the canonical supersymmetric systems are separated into the three classes. In one of them the parameter specifying the supersymmetry order is subject to some sort of classical quantization, whereas the supersymmetry of another extreme class has a rather fictive nature since its fermion degrees of freedom are decoupled completely by a canonical transformation. The nonlinear supersymmetry with polynomial in momentum supercharges is analysed, and the most general one-parametric Calogero-like solution with the second order supercharges is found. Quantization of the systems of the canonical form reveals the two anomaly-free classes, one of which gives rise naturally to the quasi-exactly solvable systems. The quantum anomaly problem for the Calogero-like models is ``cured'' by the specific superpotential-dependent term of order $\hbar^2$. The nonlinear supersymmetry admits the generalization to the case of two-dimensional systems.

id: hep-th/0012084
title: Precanonical Quantization and the Schroedinger Wave Functional
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 16pp, LaTeX2e. v2: minor changes in the presentation, misprints in eqs. 4.21, 4.24 and unnumbered after eq. 4.8 fixed, sect. 4.1 partly rewritten, the conclusions section expanded, references added, LaTeX format changed; to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett. A283 (2001) 25-36
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0012084
abstract: A relation between the Schroedinger wave functional and the Clifford-valued wave function which appears in what we call precanonical quantization of fields and fulfills a Dirac-like generalized covariant Schroedinger equation on the space of field and space-time variables is discussed. The Schroedinger wave functional is argued to be the trace of the positive frequency part of the continual product over all spatial points of the values of the aforementioned wave function restricted to a Cauchy surface. The standard functional differential Schroedinger equation is derived as a consequence of the Dirac-like covariant Schroedinger equation.

id: hep-th/0012245
title: Origin of a classical space in guantum cosmologies
authors: A.A. Kirillov, G.V. Serebryakov
comments: 4 pages, Latex, no figures, minor corrections in the text and in some formulas, matches version published in Gravitation & Cosmology Journal - ref: Gravitation & Cosmology, Vol. 7, (2001) No. 3 (27), pp. 211-214
journal: Grav.Cosmol. 7 (2001) 211-214
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0012245
abstract: The influence of vector fields on the origin of a classical space in quantum cosmologies and on the possible compactification process in multidimensional gravity is investigated. It is shown that all general features of the transition between classical and quantum regimes of the evolution can be obtained within the simplest Bianchi-I model for arbitrary number of dimensions. It is shown that the classical space appears when the horizon size reaches the smallest of characteristic scales (the characteristic scale of inhomogeneity or a scale associated with vector fields). In multidimensional case the presence of vector fields completely removes the initial stage of the compactification process which takes place in the case of vacuum models.

id: hep-th/0012253
title: The Quantum Vacuum and the Cosmological Constant Problem
authors: Svend Erik Rugh, Henrik Zinkernagel
comments: 46 pages, no figures. Submitted to Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, vol. 33 (2002), 663-705
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0012253
abstract: The cosmological constant problem arises at the intersection between general relativity and quantum field theory, and is regarded as a fundamental problem in modern physics. In this paper we describe the historical and conceptual origin of the cosmological constant problem which is intimately connected to the vacuum concept in quantum field theory. We critically discuss how the problem rests on the notion of physical real vacuum energy, and which relations between general relativity and quantum field theory are assumed in order to make the problem well-defined.

id: math-ph/0012030
title: Geometric quantization of non-relativistic and relativistic Hamiltonian mechanics
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0012030
abstract: We show that non-relativistic and relativistic mechanical systems on a configuration space Q can be seen as the conservative Dirac constraint systems with zero Hamiltonians on different subbundles of the same cotangent bundle T^*Q. The geometric quantization of this cotangent bundle under the vertical polarization leads to compatible covariant quantizations of non-relativistic and relativistic Hamiltonian mechanics.

id: math-ph/0012031
title: Numerical analyses of a quantum-theoretic eight-dimensional Yang-Mills field
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: This paper has been superseded by math-ph/0102032, "Bures geometry of the three-level quantum systems. II", and is hence withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0012031
abstract: This paper has been superseded by math-ph/0102032, "Bures geometry of the three-level quantum systems. II".

id: math-ph/0012033
title: Para, pseudo, and orthosupersymmetric quantum mechanics and their bosonization
authors: C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX2e, 13 pages, no figures, communication at the NATO Advanced Research Workshop ``Noncommutative Structures in Mathematics and Physics'', Kiev, 24-27 September, 2000
journal: Noncommutative Structures in Mathematics and Physics, eds. S. Duplij and J. Wess (Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2001) pp. 203-213
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0012033
abstract: We consider the problem of bosonizing supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SSQM) and some of its variants, i.e., of realizing them in terms of only boson-like operators without fermion-like ones. In the SSQM case, this is realized in terms of the generators of the Calogero-Vasiliev algebra (also termed deformed Heisenberg algebra with reflection). In that of the SSQM variants, this is done by considering generalizations of the latter algebra, namely the $C_{\lambda}$-extended oscillator algebras, where $C_{\lambda}$ is the cyclic group of order~$\lambda$.

id: math-ph/0012035
title: Non-Abelian Stokes theorem in action
authors: Boguslaw Broda
comments: 46 pages, 5 pictures, 1 EPS figure, several references added, minor changes
journal: original version published in 2nd ed. of "Modern Nonlinear Optics", Part 2, ed. M.W.Evans, Wiley (2001) 429-468
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0012035
abstract: In this short review main issues related to the non-Abelian Stokes theorem have been addressed. The two principal approaches to the non-Abelian Stokes theorem, operator and two variants (coherent-state and holomorphic) of the path-integral one, have been formulated in their simplest possible forms. A recent generalization for a knotted loop as well as a suggestion concerning higher-degree forms have been also included. Non-perturbative applications of the non-Abelian Stokes theorem, to (semi-)topological gauge theories, have been presented.

id: nlin/0012010
title: Entangling power of quantized chaotic systems
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 21 pages including 9 figs. (revtex)
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012010
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement caused by unitary operators that have classical limits that can range from the near integrable to the completely chaotic. Entanglement in the eigenstates and time-evolving arbitrary states is studied through the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrices. We demonstrate that classical chaos can lead to substantially enhanced entanglement. Conversely, entanglement provides a novel and useful characterization of quantum states in higher dimensional chaotic or complex systems. Information about eigenfunction localization is stored in a graded manner in the Schmidt vectors, and the principal Schmidt vectors can be scarred by the projections of classical periodic orbits onto subspaces. The eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices are sensitive to the degree of wavefunction localization, and are roughly exponentially arranged. We also point out the analogy with decoherence, as reduced density matrices corresponding to subsystems of fully chaotic systems are diagonally dominant.

id: nlin/0012013
title: Chaos assisted tunnelling with cold atoms
authors: A. Mouchet, C. Miniatura, R. Kaiser, B. Grmaud, D. Delande
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. E ; 16 pages, 13 figures; figures of better quality can be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012013
abstract: In the context of quantum chaos, both theory and numerical analysis predict large fluctuations of the tunnelling transition probabilities when irregular dynamics is present at the classical level. We consider here the non-dissipative quantum evolution of cold atoms trapped in a time-dependent modulated periodic potential generated by two laser beams. We give some precise guidelines for the observation of chaos assisted tunnelling between invariant phase space structures paired by time-reversal symmetry.

id: nlin/0012046
title: Algebraic approach in the study of time-dependent nonlinear integrable systems: Case of the singular oscillator
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, A. Lakshminarayan, Vijay B.Sheorey
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 63, article # 042109 (2001)
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012046
abstract: The classical and the quantal problem of a particle interacting in one-dimension with an external time-dependent quadratic potential and a constant inverse square potential is studied from the Lie-algebraic point of view. The integrability of this system is established by evaluating the exact invariant closely related to the Lewis and Riesenfeld invariant for the time-dependent harmonic oscillator. We study extensively the special and interesting case of a kicked quadratic potential from which we derive a new integrable, nonlinear, area preserving, two-dimensional map which may, for instance, be used in numerical algorithms that integrate the Calogero-Sutherland-Moser Hamiltonian. The dynamics, both classical and quantal, is studied via the time-evolution operator which we evaluate using a recent method of integrating the quantum Liouville-Bloch equations \cite{rau}. The results show the exact one-to-one correspondence between the classical and the quantal dynamics. Our analysis also sheds light on the connection between properties of the SU(1,1) algebra and that of simple dynamical systems.

id: nlin/0012048
title: Breakdown of correspondence in chaotic systems: Ehrenfest versus localization times
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski, Jakub Zakrzewski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, replaced with a version submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 042113 (2002)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012048
abstract: Breakdown of quantum-classical correspondence is studied on an experimentally realizable example of one-dimensional periodically driven system. Two relevant time scales are identified in this system: the short Ehrenfest time t_h and the typically much longer localization time scale T_L. It is shown that surprisingly weak modification of the Hamiltonian may eliminate the more dramatic symptoms of localization without effecting the more subtle but ubiquitous and rapid loss of correspondence at t_h.

id: nlin/0012055
title: Quantal Two-Centre Coulomb Problem treated by means of the Phase-Integral Method I. General Theory
authors: N. Athavan, P.O. Fr?man, N. Fr?man, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 23 pages, RevTeX, 4 EPS figures, submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012055
abstract: The present paper concerns the derivation of phase-integral quantization conditions for the two-centre Coulomb problem under the assumption that the two Coulomb centres are fixed. With this restriction we treat the general two-centre Coulomb problem according to the phase-integral method, in which one uses an {\it a priori} unspecified {\it base function}. We consider base functions containing three unspecified parameters $C, \tilde C$ and $\Lambda$. When the absolute value of the magnetic quantum number $m$ is not too small, it is most appropriate to choose $\Lambda=|m|\ne 0$. When, on the other hand, $|m|$ is sufficiently small, it is most appropriate to choose $\Lambda = 0$. Arbitrary-order phase-integral quantization conditions are obtained for these choices of $\Lambda$. The parameters $C$ and $\tilde C$ are determined from the requirement that the results of the first and the third order of the phase-integral approximation coincide, which makes the first-order approximation as good as possible. In order to make the paper to some extent self-contained, a short review of the phase-integral method is given in the Appendix.

id: nlin/0012057
title: Quantal Two-Centre Coulomb Problem treated by means of the Phase-Integral Method III. Quantization Conditions in the General Case Expressed in Terms of Complete Elliptic Integrals. Numerical Illustration
authors: N. Athavan, N. Fr?man, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 29 pages, RevTeX 4, 12 EPS figures, submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012057
abstract: In this paper we take up the quantal two-centre problem where the Coulomb centres have arbitrary positive charges. In analogy with the symmetric case, treated in the second paper of this series of papers, we use the knowledge on the quasiclassical dynamics to express the contour integrals in the first- and third-order approximations of the phase-integral quantization conditions, given in the first paper of this series of papers, in terms of complete elliptic integrals. For various values of the distance between these charges the accuracy of the formulas obtained is illustrated by comparison with available numerically exact results.

id: nlin/0012058
title: Quantal Two-Centre Coulomb Problem treated by means of the Phase-Integral Method II. Quantization Conditions in the Symmetric Case Expressed in Terms of Complete Elliptic Integrals. Numerical Illustration
authors: N. Athavan, N. Fr?man, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 19 pages, RevTeX 4, 4 EPS figures, submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0012058
abstract: The contour integrals, occurring in the arbitrary-order phase-integral quantization conditions given in a previous paper, are in the first- and third-order approximations expressed in terms of complete elliptic integrals in the case that the charges of the Coulomb centres are equal. The evaluation of the integrals is facilitated by the knowledge of quasiclassical dynamics. The resulting quantization conditions involving complete elliptic integrals are solved numerically to obtain the energy eigenvalues and the separation constants of the $1s\sigma$ and $2p\sigma$ states of the hydrogen molecule ion for various values of the internuclear distance. The accuracy of the formulas obtained is illustrated by comparison with available numerically exact results.

id: nucl-th/0012028
title: Bifurcation in kinetic equation for interacting Fermi systems
authors: Klaus Morawetz
comments: 
journal: CHAOS 13 (2003) 572
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0012028
abstract: The finite duration of collisions appear as time-nonlocality in the kinetic equation. Analyzing the corresponding quantum kinetic equation for dense interacting Fermi systems a delay differential equation is obtained which combines time derivatives with finite time stepping known from the logistic mapping. The responsible delay time is explicitly calculated and discussed. As a novel feature oscillations in the time evolution of the distribution function itself appear and bifurcations up to chaotic behavior can occur. The temperature and density conditions are presented where such oscillations and bifurcations arise indicating an onset of phase transition.

id: nucl-th/0012080
title: Exact spinor-scalar bound states in a QFT with scalar interactions
authors: Volodymyr Shpytko, Jurij Darewych
comments: 12 pages, RevTeX, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev. D64 (2001) 045012
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0012080
abstract: We study two-particle systems in a model quantum field theory, in which scalar particles and spinor particles interact via a mediating scalar field. The Lagrangian of the model is reformulated by using covariant Green's functions to solve for the mediating field in terms of the particle fields. This results in a Hamiltonian in which the mediating-field propagator appears directly in the interaction term. It is shown that exact two-particle eigenstates of the Hamiltonian can be determined. The resulting relativistic fermion-boson equation is shown to have Dirac and Klein-Gordon one-particle limits. Analytic solutions for the bound state energy spectrum are obtained for the case of massless mediating fields.

id: physics/0012012
title: Perturbative treatment of intercenter coupling in Redfield theory
authors: Ulrich Kleinekathoefer, Ivan Kondov, Michael Schreiber
comments: 
journal: Chem. Phys. 268, 121-130 (2001)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0012012
abstract: The quantum dynamics of coupled subsystems connected to a thermal bath is studied. In some of the earlier work the effect of intercenter coupling on the dissipative part was neglected. This is equivalent to a zeroth-order perturbative expansion of the damping term with respect to the intercenter coupling. It is shown numerically for two coupled harmonic oscillators that this treatment can lead to artifacts and a completely wrong description, for example, of a charge transfer processes even for very weak intercenter coupling. Here we perform a first-order treatment and show that these artifacts disappear. In addition, we demonstrate that the thermodynamic equilibrium population is almost reached even for strong intercenter coupling strength.

