id: quant-ph/0101001
title: Stochastic Theory of Relativistic Particles Moving in a Quantum Field: II. Scalar Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac-Langevin Equation, Radiation Reaction and Vacuum Fluctuations
authors: Philip R. Johnson, B.L. Hu
comments: RevTex; 20 pages, 3 figures, Replaced version has corrected typos, slightly modified derivation, improved discussion including new section with comparisons to related work, and expanded references
journal: Phys.Rev.D65:065015,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101001
abstract: We apply the open systems concept and the influence functional formalism introduced in Paper I to establish a stochastic theory of relativistic moving spinless particles in a quantum scalar field. The stochastic regime resting between the quantum and semi-classical captures the statistical mechanical attributes of the full theory. Applying the particle-centric world-line quantization formulation to the quantum field theory of scalar QED we derive a time-dependent (scalar) Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac (ALD) equation and show that it is the correct semiclassical limit for nonlinear particle-field systems without the need of making the dipole or non-relativistic approximations. Progressing to the stochastic regime, we derive multiparticle ALD-Langevin equations for nonlinearly coupled particle-field systems. With these equations we show how to address time-dependent dissipation/noise/renormalization in the semiclassical and stochastic limits of QED. We clarify the the relation of radiation reaction, quantum dissipation and vacuum fluctuations and the role that initial conditions may play in producing non-Lorentz invariant noise. We emphasize the fundamental role of decoherence in reaching the semiclassical limit, which also suggests the correct way to think about the issues of runaway solutions and preacceleration from the presence of third derivative terms in the ALD equation. We show that the semiclassical self-consistent solutions obtained in this way are ``paradox'' and pathology free both technically and conceptually. This self-consistent treatment serves as a new platform for investigations into problems related to relativistic moving charges.

id: quant-ph/0101002
title: Hyperbolic quantum mechanics
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101002
abstract: We start to develop the quantization formalism in a hyperbolic Hilbert space. Generalizing Born's probability interpretation, we found that unitary transformations in such a Hilbert space represent a new class of transformations of probabilities which describe a kind of {\it hyperbolic interference}. The most interesting problem which was generated by our investigation is to find experimental evidence of hyperbolic interference. The hyperbolic quantum formalism can also be interesting as a new theory of probabilistic waves that can be developed parallely to the standard quantum theory. Comparative analysis of these two wave theories could be useful for understanding of the role of various structures of the standard quantum formalism. In particular, one of distinguishing feature of the hyperbolic quantum formalism is the restricted validity of the superposition principle.

id: quant-ph/0101003
title: An Analysis of Completely-Positive Trace-Preserving Maps on 2x2 Matrices
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai, Stanislaw Szarek, Elisabeth Werner
comments: A significantly expanded version of quant-ph/0005004. 34 pages, 3 figures Final version accepted for publication in Lin. Alg. Appl
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 347, 159--187 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101003
abstract: We give a useful new characterization of the set of all completely positive, trace-preserving (i.e., stochastic) maps from 2x2 matrices to 2x2 matrices. These conditions allow one to easily check any trace-preserving map for complete positivity. We also determine explicitly all extreme points of this set, and give a useful parameterization after reduction to a certain canonical form. This allows a detailed examination of an important class of non-unital extreme points which can be characterized as having exactly two images on the Bloch sphere. We also discuss a number of related issues about the images and the geometry of the set of stochastic maps, and show that any stochastic map on 2x2 matrices can be written as a convex combination of two "generalized" extreme points.

id: quant-ph/0101004
title: Quantum Computing of Classical Chaos: Smile of the Arnold-Schrodinger Cat
authors: B. Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v.86 (2001) p.5393
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101004
abstract: We show on the example of the Arnold cat map that classical chaotic systems can be simulated with exponential efficiency on a quantum computer. Although classical computer errors grow exponentially with time, the quantum algorithm with moderate imperfections is able to simulate accurately the unstable chaotic classical dynamics for long times. The algorithm can be easily implemented on systems of a few qubits.

id: quant-ph/0101005
title: Quantum Communication Complexity (A Survey)
authors: Gilles Brassard
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX, no figures. Survey paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101005
abstract: Can quantum communication be more efficient than its classical counterpart? Holevo's theorem rules out the possibility of communicating more than n bits of classical information by the transmission of n quantum bits --- unless the two parties are entangled, in which case twice as many classical bits can be communicated but no more. In apparent contradiction, there are distributed computational tasks for which quantum communication cannot be simulated efficiently by classical means. In extreme cases, the effect of transmitting quantum bits cannot be achieved classically short of transmitting an exponentially larger number of bits. In a similar vein, can entanglement be used to save on classical communication? It is well known that entanglement on its own is useless for the transmission of information. Yet, there are distributed tasks that cannot be accomplished at all in a classical world when communication is not allowed, but that become possible if the non-communicating parties share prior entanglement. This leads to the question of how expensive it is, in terms of classical communication, to provide an exact simulation of the spooky power of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101006
title: Quantum-Liouville and Langevin Equations for Gravitational Radiation Damping
authors: Z. Haba, H. Kleinert
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A17:3729-3736,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101006
abstract: From a forward--backward path integral, we derive a master equation for the emission and absorption of gravitons by a massive quantum object in a heat bath of gravitons. Such an equation could describe collapse phenomena of dense stars. We also present a useful approximate Langevin equation for such a system.

id: quant-ph/0101007
title: Formulation of Quantum Theory Using Computable and Non-Computable Real Numbers
authors: T. N. Palmer
comments: 27 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101007
abstract: It is shown that in two-state quantum theory, a generic quantum state can be described by a non-computable real number. In terms of this, the criterion for measurement outcome is simply and deterministically defined. This demonstration is based on a construction of the Riemann sphere whose points represent, not complex numbers, but divergent sequences with bivalent elements. Complex structure arises from self-similar properties of a set of operators which generate these sequences. In general, a rotation of (the coordinates of) the sphere maps a computable real to a non-computable real. This is interpreted physically as a mapping of a physically-measurable state to a counterfactual state. Implications for non-locality, null measurements, many worlds and so on, are discussed. The possible role of the Euler equation as the counterpart of the Schrodinger equation for real-number quantum state evolution is also outlined.

id: quant-ph/0101008
title: Charged particles in a rotating magnetic field
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: REVTeX, 13 pages, no figure. There are two minor errors in the published version due to incorrect editing by the publisher. The "spin-1" in Sec. I and the "spin 1" in Sec. II below Eq. (2c) should both be changed to "spin" or "spin angular momentum". The preferred E-mail for correspondence is qg_lin@163.net or qg_lin@263.net
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63 (2001) 012108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101008
abstract: We study the valence electron of an alkaline atom or a general charged particle with arbitrary spin and with magnetic moment moving in a rotating magnetic field. By using a time-dependent unitary transformation, the Schr\"odinger equation with the time-dependent Hamiltonian can be reduced to a Schr\"odinger-like equation with a time-independent effective Hamiltonian. Eigenstates of the effective Hamiltonian correspond to cyclic solutions of the original Schr\"odinger equation. The nonadiabatic geometric phase of a cyclic solution can be expressed in terms of the expectation value of the component of the total angular momentum along the rotating axis, regardless of whether the solution is explicitly available. For the alkaline atomic electron and a strong magnetic field, the eigenvalue problem of the effective Hamiltonian is completely solved, and the geometric phase turns out to be a linear combination of two solid angles. For a weak magnetic field, the same problem is solved partly. For a general charged particle, the problem is solved approximately in a slowly rotating magnetic field, and the geometric phases are also calculated.

id: quant-ph/0101009
title: Quantum Networks for Concentrating Entanglement
authors: Phillip Kaye, Michele Mosca
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101009
abstract: If two parties, Alice and Bob, share some number, n, of partially entangled pairs of qubits, then it is possible for them to concentrate these pairs into some smaller number of maximally entangled states. We present a simplified version of the algorithm for such entanglement concentration, and we describe efficient networks for implementing these operations.

id: quant-ph/0101010
title: Geometric Phases, Symmetries of Dynamical Invariants, and Exact Solution of the Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A34:6325-6338,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101010
abstract: We introduce the notion of the geometrically equivalent quantum systems (GEQS) as quantum systems that lead to the same geometric phases for a given complete set of initial state vectors. We give a characterization of the GEQS. These systems have a common dynamical invariant, and their Hamiltonians and evolution operators are related by symmetry transformations of the invariant. If the invariant is $T$-periodic, the corresponding class of GEQS includes a system with a $T$-periodic Hamiltonian. We apply our general results to study the classes of GEQS that include a system with a cranked Hamiltonian $H(t)=e^{-iKt}H_0e^{iKt}$. We show that the cranking operator $K$ also belongs to this class. Hence, in spite of the fact that it is time-independent, it leads to nontrivial cyclic evolutions and geometric phases. Our analysis allows for an explicit construction of a complete set of nonstationary cyclic states of any time-independent simple harmonic oscillator. The period of these cyclic states is half the characteristic period of the oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0101011
title: Photon position operators and localized bases
authors: Margaret Hawton, William E. Baylis
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012101 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101011
abstract: We extend a procedure for construction of the photon position operators with transverse eigenvectors and commuting components [Phys. Rev. A 59, 954 (1999)] to body rotations described by three Euler angles. The axial angle can be made a function of the two polar angles, and different choices of the functional dependence are analogous to different gauges of a magnetic field. Symmetries broken by a choice of gauge are re-established by transformations within the gauge group. The approach allows several previous proposals to be related. Because of the coupling of the photon momentum and spin, our position operator, like that proposed by Pryce, is a matrix that does not commute with the spin operator. Unlike the Pryce operator, however, our operator has commuting components, but the commutators of these components with the total angular momentum require an extra term to rotate the matrices for each vector component around the momentum direction. Several proofs of the nonexistence of a photon position operator with commuting components are based on overly restrictive premises that do not apply here.

id: quant-ph/0101012
title: Quantum Theory From Five Reasonable Axioms
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 34 pages. Version 4: Improved proofs of K=N^r and D=D^T. Discussion of state update rule after measurement added. Various clarifications in proofs Version 2: Axiom 2 modified and corresponding corrections made to proof in Sec. 8.1. Typos and minor errors fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101012
abstract: The usual formulation of quantum theory is based on rather obscure axioms (employing complex Hilbert spaces, Hermitean operators, and the trace rule for calculating probabilities). In this paper it is shown that quantum theory can be derived from five very reasonable axioms. The first four of these are obviously consistent with both quantum theory and classical probability theory. Axiom 5 (which requires that there exists continuous reversible transformations between pure states) rules out classical probability theory. If Axiom 5 (or even just the word "continuous" from Axiom 5) is dropped then we obtain classical probability theory instead. This work provides some insight into the reasons quantum theory is the way it is. For example, it explains the need for complex numbers and where the trace formula comes from. We also gain insight into the relationship between quantum theory and classical probability theory.

id: quant-ph/0101013
title: Entanglement in the Quantum Heisenberg XY model
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 7 pages, 6 figs, revised version submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 012313 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101013
abstract: We study the entanglement in the quantum Heisenberg XY model in which the so-called W entangled states can be generated for 3 or 4 qubits. By the concept of concurrence, we study the entanglement in the time evolution of the XY model. We investigate the thermal entanglement in the two-qubit isotropic XY model with a magnetic field and in the anisotropic XY model, and find that the thermal entanglement exists for both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cases. Some evidences of the quantum phase transition also appear in these simple models.

id: quant-ph/0101014
title: Inhibition of Decoherence due to Decay in a Continuum
authors: G.S. Agarwal, M.O. Scully, H. Walther
comments: 11 pages and 4 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101014
abstract: We propose a scheme for slowing down decay into a continuum. We make use of a sequence of ultrashort $2\pi$-pulses applied on an auxiliary transition of the system so that there is a destructive interference between the two transition amplitudes - one before the application of the pulse and the other after the application of the pulse. We give explicit results for a structured continuum. Our scheme can also inhibit unwanted transitions.

id: quant-ph/0101015
title: Entropy and Temperature of a Quantum Carnot Engine
authors: C.M. Bender, D.C. Brody, B.K. Meister
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society London A458, 1519-1526 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101015
abstract: It is possible to extract work from a quantum-mechanical system whose dynamics is governed by a time-dependent cyclic Hamiltonian. An energy bath is required to operate such a quantum engine in place of the heat bath used to run a conventional classical thermodynamic heat engine. The effect of the energy bath is to maintain the expectation value of the system Hamiltonian during an isoenergetic expansion. It is shown that the existence of such a bath leads to equilibrium quantum states that maximise the von Neumann entropy. Quantum analogues of certain thermodynamic relations are obtained that allow one to define the temperature of the energy bath.

id: quant-ph/0101016
title: On Ordering of Operators in Canonical Quantization in Curved Space
authors: E.A.Tagirov
comments: 11 pages, LaTex 2.09-file; a talk at the 23th Symposium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, Dubna, July 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101016
abstract: Ambiguities arising in different approaches (canonical, quasiclassical, path integration) to quantization are discussed by an example of the mechanics of a point-like particle in the Riemannian space (the geodesic dynamics). A way to select a single rule of quantization is proposed by requirement of a consistency of the quantum mechanics' following from the canonical and quasiclassical approaches. This rule selects also a definition of the path integration. A geometric interpretation of the noncovariance of the canonical Hamilton operator of a particle with respect to the diffeomorphisms of the Riemannian configuration space is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0101017
title: Measuring the Quantum State of a Large Angular Momentum
authors: Gerd Klose, Greg Smith, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101017
abstract: We demonstrate a general method to measure the quantum state of an angular momentum of arbitrary magnitude. The (2F+1) x (2F+1) density matrix is completely determined from a set of Stern-Gerlach measurements with (4F+1) different orientations of the quantization axis. We implement the protocol for laser cooled Cesium atoms in the 6S_{1/2}(F=4) hyperfine ground state and apply it to a variety of test states prepared by optical pumping and Larmor precession. A comparison of input and measured states shows typical reconstruction fidelities of about 0.95.

id: quant-ph/0101018
title: Entangled state based on nonorthogonal state
authors: Osamu Hirota, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101018
abstract: Properties of entangled states based on nonorthogonal states are clarified. Especially, it is shown that they can have complete degree of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101019
title: A review of Johnjoe McFadden's book ``Quantum Evolution''
authors: Matthew J. Donald
comments: 11 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101019
abstract: In ``Quantum Evolution: Life in the Multiverse'' (HarperCollins, 2000), ISBN 0-00-255948-X, 0-00-655128-9, Johnjoe McFadden makes far-reaching claims for the importance of quantum physics in the solution of problems in biological science. In this review, I discuss the relevance of unitary wavefunction dynamics to biological systems, analyse the inverse quantum Zeno effect, and argue that McFadden's use of quantum theory is deeply flawed.

id: quant-ph/0101020
title: Nonlinear optics with less than one photon
authors: K.J. Resch, J.S. Lundeen, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 87, 123603 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101020
abstract: We demonstrate suppression and enhancement of spontaneous parametric down- conversion via quantum interference with two weak fields from a local oscillator (LO). Pairs of LO photons are observed to upconvert with high efficiency for appropriate phase settings, exhibiting an effective nonlinearity enhanced by at least 10 orders of magnitude. This constitutes a two-photon switch, and promises to be useful for a variety of nonlinear optical effects at the quantum level.

id: quant-ph/0101021
title: Analytical operator solution of master equations describing phase-sensitive processes
authors: A. Vidiella-Barranco, Luis M. Arevalo-Aguilar, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, LaTex, 3 figures, accepted for publication in International Journal of Modern Physics B
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 15, 1127 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101021
abstract: We present a method of solving master equations which may describe, in their most general form, phase sensitive processes such as decay and amplification. We make use of the superoperator technique.

id: quant-ph/0101022
title: Do Quantum Nonlocal Correlations Imply Information Transfer?- A Gedanken Experiment
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 4 pages text + 1 figure; REVteX; Discussion part rewritten with corresponding changes to abstract & title; Modified/alternate version of the Gedanken experiment in quant-ph/9904075
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101022
abstract: We study a generalization of the original Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen thought experiment. It is essentially a delayed choice experiment as applied to entangled particles. The basic idea is: given two observers sharing position-momentum entangled photons, one party chooses whether she measures position or momentum of her photons after the particles leave the source. The other party should infer her action by checking for the absence or presence of characteristic interference patterns after subjecting his particles to certain optical pre-processing. An occurance of apparent signaling is attributed to the difficulty in treating single photons simultaneously at a quantum mechanical and quantum electrodynamic level, as required by the experiment, and points to the need for a careful study of an aspect of the foundations of quantum mechanics and electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0101023
title: Do Quantum Nonlocal Correlations Imply Information Transfer?- A Simply Quantum Optical Test
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: Modified/alternate version of the quantum optical experiment in quant-ph/9904075; 7 pages; 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101023
abstract: In order to understand whether nonlocality implies information transfer, a quantum optical experimental test, well within the scope of current technology, is proposed. It is essentially a delayed choice experiment as applied to entangled particles. The basic idea is: given two observers sharing position-momentum entangled photons, one party chooses whether she measures position or momentum of her photons after the particles leave the source. The other party should infer her action by checking for the absence or presence of characteristic interference patterns after subjecting his particles to certain optical pre-processing. An occurance of signal transmission is attributed to the breakdown of complementarity in incomplete measurements. Since the result implies that the transferred information is classical, we discuss some propositions for safeguarding causality.

id: quant-ph/0101024
title: Supersymmetric and Shape-Invariant Generalization for Nonresonant and Intensity-Dependent Jaynes-Cummings Systems
authors: A.N.F. Aleixo, A.B. Balantekin, M.A. Candido Ribeiro
comments: A combined version of quant-ph/0005045 and quant-ph/0005046. 24 pages, LATEX
journal: J.Phys.A34:1109-1128,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101024
abstract: A class of shape-invariant bound-state problems which represent transition in a two-level system introduced earlier are generalized to include arbitrary energy splittings between the two levels as well as intensity-dependent interactions. We show that the couple-channel Hamiltonians obtained correspond to the generalizations of the nonresonant and intensity-dependent nonresonant Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonians, widely used in quantized theories of laser. In this general context, we determine the eigenstates, eigenvalues, the time evolution matrix and the population inversion matrix factor.

id: quant-ph/0101025
title: Topological Quantum Computation
authors: Michael H. Freedman, Alexei Kitaev, Michael J. Larsen, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101025
abstract: The theory of quantum computation can be constructed from the abstract study of anyonic systems. In mathematical terms, these are unitary topological modular functors. They underlie the Jones polynomial and arise in Witten-Chern-Simons theory. The braiding and fusion of anyonic excitations in quantum Hall electron liquids and 2D-magnets are modeled by modular functors, opening a new possibility for the realization of quantum computers. The chief advantage of anyonic computation would be physical error correction: An error rate scaling like $e^{-\a\l}$, where $\l$ is a length scale, and $\alpha$ is some positive constant. In contrast, the $\q$presumptive" qubit-model of quantum computation, which repairs errors combinatorically, requires a fantastically low initial error rate (about $10^{-4}$) before computation can be stabilized.

id: quant-ph/0101026
title: Quantum Information Processing with Ferroelectrically Coupled Quantum Dots
authors: Jeremy Levy
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101026
abstract: I describe a proposal to construct a quantum information processor using ferroelectrically coupled Ge/Si quantum dots. The spin of single electrons form the fundamental qubits. Small (<10 nm diameter) Ge quantum dots are optically excited to create spin polarized electrons in Si. The static polarization of an epitaxial ferroelectric thin film confines electrons laterally in the semiconductor; spin interactions between nearest neighbor electrons are mediated by the nonlinear process of optical rectification. Single qubit operations are achieved through "g-factor engineering" in the Ge/Si structures; spin-spin interactions occur through Heisenberg exchange, controlled by ferroelectric gates. A method for reading out the final state, while required for quantum computing, is not described; electronic approaches involving single electron transistors may prove fruitful in satisfying this requirement.

id: quant-ph/0101027
title: Maximum-likelihood estimation of quantum measurement
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 024102 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101027
abstract: Maximum likelihood estimation is applied to the determination of an unknown quantum measurement. The measuring apparatus performs measurements on many different quantum states and the positive operator-valued measures governing the measurement statistics are then inferred from the collected data via Maximum-likelihood principle. In contrast to the procedures based on linear inversion, our approach always provides physically sensible result. We illustrate the method on the case of Stern-Gerlach apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0101028
title: Quantum Logic
authors: M.L. Dalla Chiara, R. Giuntini
comments: 100 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101028
abstract: We investigate some forms of quantum logic arising from the standard and the unsharp approach.

id: quant-ph/0101029
title: NMR Simulation of an Eight-State Quantum System
authors: A. K. Khitrin, B. M. Fung
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101029
abstract: The propagation of excitation along a one-dimensional chain of atoms is simulated by means of NMR. The physical system used as an analog quantum computer is a nucleus of 133-Cs (spin 7/2) in a liquid crystalline matrix. The Hamiltonian of migration is simulated by using a special 7-frequency pulse, and the dynamics is monitored by following the transfer of population from one of the 8 spin energy levels to the other.

id: quant-ph/0101030
title: On the measure of entanglement
authors: Adam W. Majewski
comments: 8 pages, the amended version, presented at OAMP conference, Constanta, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101030
abstract: In this paper we present the novel qualities of entanglement of formation for general (so also infinite dimensional) quantum systems. A major benefit of our presentation is a rigorous description of entanglement of formation. In particular, we indicate how this description may be used to examine optimal decompositions. Illustrative examples showing the method of estimation of entanglement of formation are givem\n.

id: quant-ph/0101031
title: Computer Model of Quantum Zeno Effect in Spontaneous Decay with Distant Detector
authors: Alexander D. Panov
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101031
abstract: A numerical model of spontaneous decay continuously monitored by a distant detector of emitted particles is constructed. It is shown that there is no quantum Zeno effect in such quantum measurement if the interaction between emitted particle and detector is short-range and the mass of emitted particle is not zero.

id: quant-ph/0101032
title: Detecting Quantum Entanglement
authors: Barbara M. Terhal
comments: Survey article. 28 pages Latex using elsart.sty + 3 color postscript figures, also available in black&white
journal: Journal of Theoretical Computer Science 287(1), 313-335 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101032
abstract: We review the criteria for separability and quantum entanglement, both in a bipartite as well as a multipartite setting. We discuss Bell inequalities, entanglement witnesses, entropic inequalities, bound entanglement and several features of multipartite entanglement. We indicate how these criteria bear on the experimental detection of quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101033
title: Evolution of entanglement for spin-flip dynamics
authors: S. Koziel, W. A. Majewski
comments: 15 pages. No figures. Amended version with simplifications. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101033
abstract: A model of evolution of bipartite quantum state entanglement is studied. It involves recently introduced quantum block spin-flip dynamics on a lattice. We find that for initially separable states the considered evolution leads, in general, to entangled states. We also present a complete characterization of two-point correlation functions for that type of dynamics to confirm enhancement of quantum correlations for the considered system.

id: quant-ph/0101034
title: Implementation of the Five Qubit Error Correction Benchmark
authors: E. Knill, R. Laflamme, R. Martinez, C. Negrevergne
comments: 6 pages with figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101034
abstract: The smallest quantum code that can correct all one-qubit errors is based on five qubits. We experimentally implemented the encoding, decoding and error-correction quantum networks using nuclear magnetic resonance on a five spin subsystem of labeled crotonic acid. The ability to correct each error was verified by tomography of the process. The use of error-correction for benchmarking quantum networks is discussed, and we infer that the fidelity achieved in our experiment is sufficient for preserving entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101035
title: Formation and Dynamics of a Schr?dinger-Cat State in Continuous Quantum Measurement
authors: G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, G. Chapline, S.A. Gurvitz, P.C. Hammel, D.V. Pelekhov, A. Suter, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 8 pages RevTex, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101035
abstract: We consider the process of a single-spin measurement using magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM) as an example of a truly continuous measurement in quantum mechanics. This technique is also important for different applications, including a measurement of a qubit state in quantum computation. The measurement takes place through the interaction of a single spin with a quasi-classical cantilever, modeled by a quantum oscillator in a coherent state in a quasi-classical region of parameters. The entire system is treated rigorously within the framework of the Schr\"odinger equation, without any artificial assumptions. Computer simulations of the spin-cantilever dynamics, where the spin is continuously rotated by means of cyclic adiabatic inversion, show that the cantilever evolves into a Schr\"odinger-cat state: the probability distribution for the cantilever position develops two asymmetric peaks that quasi-periodically appear and vanish. For a many-spin system our equations reduce to the classical equations of motion, and we accurately describe conventional MRFM experiments involving cyclic adiabatic inversion of the spin system. We surmise that the interaction of the cantilever with the environment would lead to a collapse of the wave function; however, we show that in such a case the spin does not jump into a spin eigenstate.

id: quant-ph/0101036
title: Cavity-damping-induced transitions in a driven atom-cavity system
authors: Hyunchul Nha, Kyungwon An
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Opt. Lett
journal: Optics Letters, vol. 26, 923 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101036
abstract: We investigate the fluorescence spectrum of a two-level atom in a cavity when the atom is driven by a classical field. We show that forbidden dipole transitions in the Jaynes-Cummings Ladder structure are induced in the presence of the cavity damping, which deteriorates the degree of otherwise perfect destructive interference among the transition channels. With the larger cavity decay, these transitions are more enhanced.

id: quant-ph/0101037
title: Zeno dynamics yields ordinary constraints
authors: P. Facchi, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio, L. S. Schulman
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012108 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101037
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum system undergoing frequent measurements (quantum Zeno effect) is investigated. Using asymptotic analysis, the system is found to evolve unitarily in a proper subspace of the total Hilbert space. For spatial projections, the generator of the "Zeno dynamics" is the Hamiltonian with Dirichlet boundary conditions.

id: quant-ph/0101038
title: Non-adiabatic conditional geometric phase shift with NMR
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin, Matsumoto Keiji
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. This is a tighten combination of PRL, 87, 097901 and its eratum, 88, 179901
journal: Phys Rev. Lett. 87, 097901(2001) and (E)Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 179901(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101038
abstract: Conditional geometric phase shift gate, which is fault tolerate to certain errors due to its geometric property, is made by NMR technique recently under adiabatic condition. By the adiabatic requirement, the result is inexact unless the Hamiltonian changes extremely slowly in the process. However, in quantum computation, everything has to be completed within the decoherence time. High running speed of every gate in quantum computation is demanded because the power of quantum computer can be exponentially proportional to the maximum number of logic gate operation that can be taken sequentially within the decoherence time. Adiabatic condition makes any fast conditional Berry phase(cyclic adiabatic geometric phase) shift gate impossible. Here we show that by using a new designed sequence of simple operations with an additional vertical magnetic field, the conditional geometric phase shift can be done non-adiabatically. Therefore geometric quantum computation can be done in the same speed level of usual quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0101039
title: Quantum effects after decoherence in a quenched phase transition
authors: Nuno D. Antunes, Fernando C. Lombardo, Diana Monteoliva
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, revtex, important revisions made. To be published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101039
abstract: We study a quantum mechanical toy model that mimics some features of a quenched phase transition. Both by virtue of a time-dependent Hamiltonian or by changing the temperature of the bath we are able to show that even after classicalization has been reached, the system may display quantum behaviour again. We explain this behaviour in terms of simple non-linear analysis and estimate relevant time scales that match the results of numerical simulations of the master-equation. This opens new possibilities both in the study of quantum effects in non-equilibrium phase transitions and in general time-dependent problems where quantum effects may be relevant even after decoherence has been completed.

id: quant-ph/0101040
title: Continued fraction representation of quantum mechanical Green's operators
authors: Bal¨¢zs K¨®nya
comments: PhD thesis, University of Debrecen, 2000, (87 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101040
abstract: In this work we have presented a rather general and easy-to-apply method for discrete Hilbert space representation of quantum mechanical Green's operators. We have shown that if in some discrete Hilbert space basis representation the Hamiltonian takes an infinite symmetric tridiagonal, i.e. Jacobi-matrix form the corresponding Green's matrix can be calculated on the whole complex energy plane by a continued fraction. The procedure necessitates only the analytic calculation of the Hamiltonian matrix elements, which are used to construct the coefficients of the continued fraction. This continued fraction representation of the Green's operator was shown to be convergent for the bound state energy region. The theory of analytic continuation of continued fractions was utilized to extend the representation to the whole complex energy plane. The presented method provides a simple, easily applicable and analytically correct recipe for calculating discrete basis representation of Green's operators.

id: quant-ph/0101041
title: Individual consistency of 2-events quantum histories
authors: Giuseppe Nistico', Roberto Beneduci
comments: 12 pages, gnistico@unical.it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101041
abstract: We introduce a new notion of consistency for 2-events quantum histories, based on the concept of mirror projection. Contrary to all notions of consistency so far introduced, our consistency, named self-decoherence, is an individual property, i.e., it can be attributed to every single sample of the physical system. Furthermore, self-decoherence forbids contrary inferences.

id: quant-ph/0101042
title: A Concentration/Purification Scheme for Two Partially Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A64, 012304 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101042
abstract: An experimental scheme for concentrating entanglement in partially entangled photon pairs is proposed. In this scheme, two separated parties obtain one maximally entangled photon pair from previously shared two partially entangled photon pairs by local operations and classical communication. A practical realization of the proposed scheme is discussed, which uses imperfect photon detectors and spontaneous parametric down-conversion as a photon source. This scheme also works for purifying a class of mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0101043
title: Efficient quantum key distribution scheme with nonmaximally entangled states
authors: Peng Xue, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 Pages, No Figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64 (2001) 032305.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101043
abstract: We propose an efficient quantum key distribution scheme based on entanglement. The sender chooses pairs of photons in one of the two equivalent nonmaximally entangled states randomly, and sends a sequence of photons from each pair to the receiver. They choose from the various bases independently but with substantially different probabilities, thus reducing the fraction of discarded data, and a significant gain in efficiency is achieved. We then show that such a refined data analysis guarantees the security of our scheme against a biased eavesdropping strategy.

id: quant-ph/0101044
title: Quantum Zeno effects with "pulsed" and "continuous" measurements
authors: P. Facchi, S. Pascazio
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: Time's arrows, quantum measurements and superluminal behavior, edited by D. Mugnai, R. Ranfagni and L.S. Schulman (CNR, Rome, 2001) p. 139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101044
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum system undergoing measurements is investigated. Depending on the features of the interaction Hamiltonian, the decay can be slowed (quantum Zeno effect) or accelerated (inverse quantum Zeno effect), by changing the time interval between successive (pulsed) measurements or, alternatively, by varying the "strength" of the (continuous) measurement.

id: quant-ph/0101045
title: A method for collective excitation of Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski, Krzysztof Sacha, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; major revision, several references added, interacting particles case added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 061601(R) (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101045
abstract: It is shown that by an appropriate modification of the trapping potential one may create collective excitation in cold atom Bose-Einstein condensate. The proposed method is complementary to earlier suggestions. It seems to be feasible experimentally --- it requires only a proper change in time of the potential in atomic traps, as realized in laboratories already.

id: quant-ph/0101046
title: Entanglement between motional states of a single trapped ion and light
authors: F.L. Semiao, A. Vidiella-Barranco, J.A. Roversi
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 024305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101046
abstract: We propose a generation method of Bell-type states involving light and the vibrational motion of a single trapped ion. The trap itself is supposed to be placed inside a high-$Q$ cavity sustaining a single mode, quantized electromagnetic field. Entangled light-motional states may be readily generated if a conditional measurement of the ion's internal electronic state is made after an appropriate interaction time and a suitable preparation of the initial state. We show that all four Bell states may be generated using different motional sidebands (either blue or red), as well as adequate ionic relative phases.

id: quant-ph/0101047
title: The Principles of Gauging
authors: Holger Lyre
comments: Paper contribution for PSA2K meeting in Vancouver, B.C., November 4-7, 2000. Forthcoming in Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101047
abstract: The aim of this paper is twofold: First, to present an examination of the principles underlying gauge field theories. I shall argue that there are two principles directly connected to the two well-known theorems of Emmy Noether concerning global and local symmetries of the free matter-field Lagrangian, in the following referred to as "conservation principle" and "gauge principle". Since both these express nothing but certain symmetry features of the free field theory, they are not sufficient to derive a true interaction coupling to a new gauge field. For this purpose it is necessary to advocate a third, truly empirical principle which may be understood as a generalization of the equivalence principle. The second task of the paper is to deal with the ontological question concerning the reality status of gauge potentials in the light of the proposed logical structure of gauge theories. A nonlocal interpretation of topological effects in gauge theories and, thus, the non-reality of gauge potentials in accordance with the generalized equivalence principle will be favoured.

id: quant-ph/0101048
title: Comment on "Maximum likelihood reconstruction of CP maps", quant-ph/0009104
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 1 page, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101048
abstract: The treatment proposed by Sacchi quant-ph/0009104 does not represent correct solution, since the necessary conditions on CP maps are not guaranteed.

id: quant-ph/0101049
title: Quantum cobwebs: Universal entangling of quantum states
authors: Arun Kumar Pati
comments: Invited talk in II Winter Institute on FQTQO: Quantum Information Processing, held at S. N. Bose Center for Basic Science, Kolkata, during Jan 2-11, 2002. (To appear in Pramana-J. of Physics, 2002.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101049
abstract: Entangling an unknown qubit with one type of reference state is generally impossible. However, entangling an unknown qubit with two types of reference states is possible. To achieve this, we introduce a new class of states called zero sum amplitude (ZSA) multipartite, pure entangled states for qubits and study their salient features. Using shared-ZSA state, local operation and classical communication we give a protocol for creating multipartite entangled states of an unknown quantum state with two types of reference states at remote places. This provides a way of encoding an unknown pure qubit state into a multiqubit entangled state. We quantify the amount of classical and quantum resources required to create universal entangled states. This is possibly a strongest form of quantum bit hiding with multiparties.

id: quant-ph/0101050
title: New Tests of Macroscopic Local Realism using Continuous Variable Measurements
authors: M.D. Reid
comments: 10 pages,3 figures,contribution in memory of Dan Walls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101050
abstract: We show that quantum mechanics predicts an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox (EPR), and also a contradiction with local hidden variable theories, for photon number measurements which have limited resolving power, to the point of imposing an uncertainty in the photon number result which is macroscopic in absolute terms. We show how this can be interpreted as a failure of a new, very strong premise, called macroscopic local realism. We link this premise to the Schrodinger-cat paradox. Our proposed experiments ensure all fields incident on each measurement apparatus are macroscopic. We show that an alternative measurement scheme corresponds to balanced homodyne detection of quadrature phase amplitudes. The implication is that where either EPR correlations or failure of local realism is predicted for continuous variable (quadrature phase amplitude) measurements, one can perform a modified experiment which would lead to conclusions about the much stronger premise of macroscopic local realism.

id: quant-ph/0101051
title: Quantum state reconstruction of the single-photon Fock state
authors: A. I. Lvovsky, H. Hansen, T. Aichele, O. Benson, J. Mlynek, S. Schiller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Physical Review Letters. Avoid downloading PDF due to extremely poor figure resolution. Use Postscript
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 050402 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101051
abstract: We have reconstructed the quantum state of optical pulses containing single photons using the method of phase-randomized pulsed optical homodyne tomography. The single-photon Fock state |1> was prepared using conditional measurements on photon pairs born in the process of parametric down-conversion. A probability distribution of the phase-averaged electric field amplitudes with a strongly non-Gaussian shape is obtained with the total detection efficiency of (55+-1)%. The angle-averaged Wigner function reconstructed from this distribution shows a strong dip reaching classically impossible negative values around the origin of the phase space.

id: quant-ph/0101052
title: Proposal to test quantum mechanics against macroscopic realism using continuous variable entanglement: a definitive signature of a Schr?dinger cat
authors: M.D.Reid
comments: 8 pages,2 figures, presented in postdeadline session CLEO(Europe)September,2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101052
abstract: In the Schr\"odinger-cat gedanken experiment a cat is in a quantum superposition of two macroscopically distinct states, alive and dead.The paradoxical interpretation of quantum mechanics is that the cat is not in one state or the other, alive or dead, immediately prior to its measurement. Because of this apparent defiance of macroscopic reality, quantum superpositions of states macroscopically distinct have generated much interest. Here we address the issue of proving a contradiction with macroscopic reality objectively, through the testable predictions of quantum mechanics. We consider the premises of macroscopic reality (that the ``cat'' is either ``dead'' or ``alive'', the measurement indicating which) and macroscopic locality (that simultaneous measurements some distance away cannot induce the macroscopic change, ``dead'' to ``alive'' and vice versa, to the ``cat''). The predictions of quantum mechanics for certain states, generated using states exhibiting continuous variable entanglement, are shown to be incompatible with the predictions of all theories based on this dual premise. Our proof is along the lines of Bell's theorem, but where all relevant measurements give macroscopically distinct results.

id: quant-ph/0101053
title: Two-particle correlations via quasi-deterministic analyzer model
authors: Bill Dalton
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101053
abstract: We introduce a quasi-deterministic eigenstate transition model of analyzers in which the final eigenstate is selected by initial conditions. We combine this analyzer model with causal spin coupling to calculate both proton-proton and photon-photon correlations, one particle pair at a time. The calculated correlations exceed the Bell limits and show excellent agreement with the measured correlations of [M. Lamehi-Rachti and W. Mittig, Phys. Rev. D 14 (10), 2543 (1976)] and [ A. Aspect, P. Grangier and G. Rogers, Phys. Rev. Lett. 49 91 (1982)] respectively. We discuss why this model exceeds the Bell type limits.

id: quant-ph/0101054
title: A Lecture on Quantum Logic Gates
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex file, 11 pages
journal: The Bulletin of Yokohama City University, 53(2002) 81-90
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101054
abstract: In this note we make a short review of constructions of n-repeated controlled unitary gates in quantum logic gates.

id: quant-ph/0101055
title: Enhanced absorption Hanle effect on the Fg=F->Fe=F+1 closed transitions
authors: F. Renzoni, C. Zimmermann, P. Verkerk, E. Arimondo
comments: to be published in J. Opt. B, special issue on Quantum Coherence and Entanglement (February 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101055
abstract: We analyse the Hanle effect on a closed $F_g\to F_e=F_g+1$ transition. Two configurations are examined, for linear- and circular-polarized laser radiation, with the applied magnetic field collinear to the laser light wavevector. We describe the peculiarities of the Hanle signal for linearly-polarized laser excitation, characterized by narrow bright resonances at low laser intensities. The mechanism behind this effect is identified, and numerical solutions for the optical Bloch equations are presented for different transitions.

id: quant-ph/0101056
title: Mesoscopic superpositions of vibronic collective states of N trapped ions
authors: E. Solano, R. L. de Matos Filho, N. Zagury
comments: Final version, as published in Physical Review Letters. See also further developments and applications in quant-ph/0202072
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 060402 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101056
abstract: We propose a scalable procedure to generate entangled superpositions of motional coherent states and electronic states in N trapped ions. Beyond their fundamental importance, these states may be of interest for quantum information processing and may be used in experimental studies of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0101057
title: Universal quantum computation with spin-1/2 pairs and Heisenberg exchange
authors: Jeremy Levy
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101057
abstract: An efficient and intuitive framework for universal quantum computation is presented that uses pairs of spin-1/2 particles to form logical qubits and a single physical interaction, Heisenberg exchange, to produce all gate operations. Only two Heisenberg gate operations are required to produce a controlled pi-phase shift, compared to 19 for exchange-only proposals employing three spins. Evolved from well-studied decoherence-free subspaces, this architecture inherits immunity from collective decoherence mechanisms. The simplicity and adaptability of this approach should make it attractive for spin-based quantum computing architectures.

id: quant-ph/0101058
title: Prospects for a Quantum Dynamic Random Access Memory (Q-DRAM)
authors: S. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101058
abstract: Compared to quantum logic gates, quantum memory has received far less attention. Here, we explore the prognosis for a solid-state, scalable quantum dynamic random access memory (Q-DRAM), where the qubits are encoded by the spin orientations of single quantons in exchange-decoupled quantum dots. We address, in particular, various possibilities for implementing refresh cycles.

id: quant-ph/0101059
title: On the Coulomb Sturmian matrix elements of relativistic Coulomb Green's operators
authors: B. K¨®nya, Z. Papp
comments: 6 pages,revtex
journal: J. Math. Phys. 40, (1999), 2307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101059
abstract: The Hamiltonian of the radial Coulomb Klein-Gordon and second order Dirac equations are shown to possess an infinite symmetric tridiagonal matrix structure on the relativistic Coulomb Sturmian basis. This allows us to give an analytic representation for the corresponding Coulomb Green's operators in terms of continued fractions. The poles of the Green's matrix reproduce the exact relativistic hydrogen spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0101060
title: Quantum information processing: A linear systems perspective
authors: Marcos Curty, David J. Santos
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101060
abstract: In this paper a system-oriented formalism of Quantum Information Processing is presented. Its form resembles that of standard signal processing, although further complexity is added in order to describe pure quantum-mechanical effects and operations. Examples of the application of the formalism to quantum time evolution and quantum measurement are given.

id: quant-ph/0101061
title: Quantum Information Theory - an Invitation
authors: R. F. Werner
comments: 51 pages, 12 Figures, LaTeX+dvips. Will appear in a volume "Quantum information - an introduction to basic theoretical concepts and experiments" in Springer Tracts in Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101061
abstract: We give a non-technical introduction of the basic concepts of Quantum Information Theory along the distinction between possible and impossible machines. We then proceed to describe the mathematical framework of Quantum Information Theory. The capacities of a quantum channel for classical and for quantum information are defined in a unified scheme, and a mathematical characterization of all teleportation and dense coding schemes is given.

id: quant-ph/0101062
title: What the liar paradox can reveal about the quantum logical structure of our minds
authors: Erhard Bieberich
comments: HTML + gif-file; This posting is part of a continuing effort to launch an inter-disciplinary communication between quantum physicists and neurobiologists. Constructive criticism is needed, helpful, and welcome. V2 contains gif-link
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101062
abstract: In human consciousness perceptions are distinct or atomistic events despite being perceived by an apparently undivided inner observer. This paper applies both classical (Boolean) and quantum logic to analysis of the Liar paradox which is taken as a typical example of a self-referential negation in the perception space of an undivided observer. The conception of self-referential paradoxes is a unique ability of the human mind still lacking an explanation on the basis of logic. It will be shown that both classical and quantum logics fail to resolve the paradox because of the particle-like (atomistic) nature of physical events in the moments of perception. I suggest a physical mechanism that can deal with our experience of self-referential paradox. Because it is also shown that this cannot be achieved by any previously suggested classical or quantum mechanical operation, the newly proposed mechanism provides a better model than others for an important aspect of the structure of our minds.

id: quant-ph/0101063
title: Ground state of antiferromagnetic ordering in fullerene $C_{60}$ molecule
authors: C.V. Usenko, V.C. Usenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101063
abstract: Theoretical study of mutual orientation of fullerene $C_{60}$ molecule atom spins is presented in this work. Spin-spin interaction was described by Habbard's model. Existence of antiferromagnetic sturcture of spin sub-system in ground state is found.

id: quant-ph/0101064
title: Universal unitary gate for single-photon 2-qubit states
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Christian Kurtsiefer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A, 10 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 63, 2001, art. no. 032303 (10 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101064
abstract: Upon entangling a spatial binary alternative of a photon with its polarization, one can use single photons to study arbitrary 2-qubit states. Sending the photon through a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, equipped with sets of wave plates that change the polarization, amounts to performing a unitary transformation on the 2-qubit state. We show that any desired unitary gate can be realized by a judicious choice of the parameters of the set-up and discuss a number of applications. They include the diagnosis of an unknown 2-qubit state, an optical Grover search, and the realization of a thought experiment invented by Vaidman, Aharonov, and Albert.

id: quant-ph/0101065
title: The mean king's problem: Spin 1
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: to appear in Zeitschrift fur Naturforschung,3 pages
journal: Zeitschrift fur Naturforschung, vol. 56a, 2001, pp. 16-19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101065
abstract: We show how one can ascertain the values of four mutually complementary observables of a spin-1 degree of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0101066
title: Secure communication with single-photon two-qubit states
authors: Almut Beige, Berthold-Georg Englert, Christian Kurtsiefer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables; final version
journal: J. Phys. A 35, L407 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101066
abstract: We propose a cryptographic scheme that is deterministic: Alice sends single photons to Bob, and each and every photon detected supplies one key bit -- no photon is wasted. This is in marked contrast to other schemes in which a random process decides whether the next photon sent will contribute to the key or not. The determinism is achieved by preparing the photons in two-qubit states, rather than the one-qubit states used in conventional schemes. In particular, we consider the realistic situation in which one qubit is the photon polarization, the other a spatial alternative. Further, we show how one can exploit the deterministic nature for direct secure communication, that is: without the need for establishing a shared key first.

id: quant-ph/0101067
title: Casimir force between partially transmitting mirrors
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal de Physique I 1 (1991) 1395
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101067
abstract: The Casimir force can be understood as resulting from the radiation pressure exerted by the vacuum fluctuations reflected by boundaries. We extend this local formulation to the case of partially transmitting boundaries by introducing reflectivity and transmittivity coefficients obeying conditions of unitarity, causality and high frequency transparency. We show that the divergences associated with the infiniteness of the vacuum energy do not appear in this approach. We give explicit expressions for the Casimir force which hold for any frequency dependent scattering and any temperature. The corresponding expressions for the Casimir energy are interpreted in terms of phase shifts. The known results are recovered at the limit of a perfect reflection.

id: quant-ph/0101068
title: Fluctuations and dissipation for a mirror in vacuum
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 12 pages
journal: Quant.Opt. 4 (1992) 39
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101068
abstract: A mirror in the vacuum is submitted to a radiation pressure exerted by scattered fields. It is known that the resulting mean force is zero for a motionless mirror, but not for a mirror moving with a non-uniform acceleration. We show here that this force results from a motional modification of the field scattering while being associated with the fluctuations of the radiation pressure on a motionless mirror. We consider the case of a scalar field in a two-dimensional spacetime and characterize the scattering upon the mirror by frequency dependent transmissivity and reflectivity functions obeying unitarity, causality and high frequency transparency conditions. We derive causal expressions for dissipation and fluctuations and exhibit their relation for any stationary input. We recover the known damping force at the limit of a perfect mirror in vacuum. Finally, we interpret the force as a mechanical signature of the squeezing effect associated with the mirror's motion.

id: quant-ph/0101069
title: Motional Casimir force
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 14 pages
journal: J.Phys.I(France) 2:149,1992
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101069
abstract: We study the situation where two point like mirrors are placed in the vacuum state of a scalar field in a two-dimensional spacetime. Describing the scattering upon the mirrors by transmittivity and reflectivity functions obeying unitarity, causality and high frequency transparency conditions, we compute the fluctuations of the Casimir forces exerted upon the two motionless mirrors. We use the linear response theory to derive the motional forces exerted upon one mirror when it moves or when the other one moves. We show that these forces may be resonantly enhanced at the frequencies corresponding to the cavity modes. We interpret them as the mechanical consequence of generation of squeezed fields.

id: quant-ph/0101070
title: Quantum State Tomography of Complex Multimode Fields using Array Detectors
authors: S. Sivakumar, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 14 pages text and 3 figures. To be submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101070
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to use the balanced homodyning with array detectors to measure the quantum state of correlated two-mode signal field. We show the applicability of the method to fields with complex mode functions, thus generalizing the work of Beck (Phys. Rev. Letts. 84, 5748 (2000)) in several important ways. We further establish that, under suitable conditions, array detector measurements from one of the two outputs is sufficient to determine the quantum state of signals. We show the power of the method by reconstructing a truncated Perelomov state which exhibits complicated structure in the joint probability density for the quadratures.

id: quant-ph/0101071
title: Maximum-likelihood method in quantum estimation
authors: M. G. A. Paris, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: In ``Bayesian inference and maximum entropy methods in science and engineering'' (AIP Conf. Proc. 568) p. 456 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101071
abstract: The maximum-likelihood method for quantum estimation is reviewed and applied to the reconstruction of density matrix of spin and radiation as well as to the determination of several parameters of interest in quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0101072
title: Rapid and slow decoherence in conjunction with dissipation in a system of two-level atoms
authors: Peter Foldi, Attila Czirjak, Mihaly G. Benedict
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. High quality figures can be downloaded from this http URL To appear in Phys. Rev. A, March 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101072
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of a superposition of macroscopically distinct quantum states in a system of two-level atoms interacting with a thermal environment of photon modes. We show that the atomic coherent states are robust against decoherence, therefore we call their superpositions atomic Schr\"{o}dinger cat states. The initial fast regime of the time evolution is associated with the process of decoherence, and it is directed towards the statistical mixture of the constituent coherent states of the original state for most of the initial conditions. However, certain superpositions, called symmetric, exhibit exceptionally slow decoherence. By introducing a new measure, we generalize the usual decoherence scheme regarding the evolution of the state to account also for the symmetric case. To stress the fact that the environment preserves symmetric superpositions much longer than the other ones,we present Wigner function images of the decoherence of a suitably oriented four component cat state.

id: quant-ph/0101073
title: Quasi Exactly Solvable NxN-Matrix Schroedinger Operators
authors: Yves Brihaye, Betti Hartmann
comments: 16 latex pages, new results added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A16 (2001) 1895
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101073
abstract: New examples of matrix quasi exactly solvable Schroedinger operators are constructed. One of them constitutes a matrix generalization of the quasi exactly solvable anharmonic oscillator, the corresponding invariant vector space is constructed explicitely. Also investigated are matrix generalizations of the Lame equation.

id: quant-ph/0101074
title: High efficiency entangled photon pair collection in type II parametric fluorescence
authors: Christian Kurtsiefer, Markus Oberparleiter, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages including figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101074
abstract: We report on a method for optimizing the collection of entangled photon pairs in type-II parametric fluorescence. With this technique, we detected 360000 polarization-entangled photon pairs per second in the near-IR region in single-mode optical fibers. The entanglement of the photon pairs was verified by measuring polarization correlations in different bases of at least 96%.

id: quant-ph/0101075
title: Transient QED effects in absorbing dielectrics
authors: Martijn Wubs, L.G. Suttorp
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 043809 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101075
abstract: The spontaneous emission rate of a radiating atom reaches its time-independent equilibrium value after an initial transient regime. In this paper we consider the associated relaxation effects of the spontaneous decay rate of atoms in dispersive and absorbing dielectric media for atomic transition frequencies near material resonances. A quantum mechanical description of such media is furnished by a damped-polariton model, in which absorption is taken into account through coupling to a bath. We show how all field and matter operators in this theory can be expressed in terms of the bath operators at an initial time. The consistency of these solutions for the field and matter operators are found to depend on the validity of certain velocity sum rules. The transient effects in the spontaneous decay rate are studied with the help of several specific models for the dielectric constant, which are shown to follow from the general theory by adopting particular forms of the bath coupling constant.

id: quant-ph/0101076
title: Classical and Quantum Action-Phase Variables for Time-Dependent Oscillators
authors: Sang Pyo Kim, Don N. Page
comments: RevTex 15 pages, no figure; appendices and references added
journal: Phys.Rev.A64:012104,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101076
abstract: For a time-dependent classical quadratic oscillator we introduce pairs of real and complex invariants that are linear in position and momentum. Each pair of invariants realize explicitly a canonical transformation from the phase space to the invariant space, in which the action-phase variables are defined. We find the action operator for the time-dependent oscillator via the classical-quantum correspondence. Candidate phase operators conjugate to the action operator are discussed, but no satisfactory ones are found.

id: quant-ph/0101077
title: 100 Years of the Quantum
authors: Max Tegmark, John Archibald Wheeler
comments: This is the original (``director's cut'') version of the Scientific American article, with more text and inferior graphics. Sci. Am. links etc at this http URL
journal: Sci.Am.284:68-75,2001; Spektrum Wiss.Dossier 2003N1:6-14,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101077
abstract: As quantum theory celebrates its 100th birthday, spectacular successes are mixed with outstanding puzzles and promises of new technologies. This article reviews both the successes of quantum theory and the ongoing debate about its consequences for issues ranging from quantum computation to consciousness, parallel universes and the nature of physical reality. We argue that modern experiments and the discovery of decoherence have have shifted prevailing quantum interpretations away from wave function collapse towards unitary physics, and discuss quantum processes in the framework of a tripartite subject-object-environment decomposition. We conclude with some speculations on the bigger picture and the search for a unified theory of quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0101078
title: Normal ordering solution to quantum dissipation and its induced decoherence
authors: G.R. Jin, D.L. Zhou, Yu-xi Liu, X.X. Yi, C.P. Sun
comments: 13 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101078
abstract: We implement the normal ordering technique to study the quantum dissipation of a single mode harmonic oscillator system. The dynamic evolution of the system is investigated for a reasonable initial state by solving the Schr\"{o}dinger equation directly through the normal ordering technique. The decoherence process of the system for the cases $T=0K$ and $T\neq0K$ is investigated as an application.

id: quant-ph/0101079
title: Quantum cryptography without a quantum channel
authors: Marcos Curty, David J. Santos
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101079
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because the results obtained have been reported earlier by other authors.

id: quant-ph/0101080
title: Causality, stability and passivity for a mirror in vacuum
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 5 pages, corrected typo in formula 7
journal: Phys.Lett. A167 (1992) 227-232
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101080
abstract: The mean force exerted upon a perfect mirror moving in vacuum in a two dimensional spacetime has the same expression as the radiation reaction force computed in classical electron theory. It follows that unacceptable runaway solutions are predicted. We show that this instability problem does not appear when partially transmitting mirrors are studied. The mechanical impedance describing the mirror coupled to vacuum radiation pressure is computed explicitly; recoil is neglected. It is found to be a passive function, so that stability is ensured. This is connected to the fact that no energy can be extracted from the vacuum state.

id: quant-ph/0101081
title: Friction and inertia for a mirror in a thermal field
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 172 (1993) 319-324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101081
abstract: The force experienced by a mirror moving in vacuum vanishes in the case of uniform velocity or uniform acceleration, as a consequence of spatial symmetries of vacuum. These symmetries do not subsist in a thermal field. We give a general expression of the corresponding viscosity coefficient valid at any temperature and for any reflectivity function. We show that the computed motional force also contains a non vanishing inertial term. The associated mass correction goes to zero in the limiting cases of perfect reflection or of zero temperature.

id: quant-ph/0101082
title: Inertia of Casimir energy
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal de Physique I 3 (1993) 1093-1104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101082
abstract: Moving mirrors are submitted to reaction forces by vacuum fields. The motional force is known to vanish for a single mirror uniformly accelerating in vacuum. We show that inertial forces (proportional to accelerations) arise in the presence of a second scatterer, exhibiting properties expected for a relative inertia: the mass corrections depend upon the distance between the mirrors, and each mirror experiences a force proportional to the acceleration of the other one. When the two mirrors move with the same acceleration, the mass correction obtained for the cavity represents the contribution to inertia of Casimir energy. Accounting for the fact that the cavity moves as a stressed rigid body, it turns out that this contribution fits Einstein's law of inertia of energy.

id: quant-ph/0101083
title: Driven Rydberg atoms reveal quartic level repulsion
authors: Krzysztof Sacha, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 2269 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101083
abstract: The dynamics of Rydberg states of a hydrogen atom subject simultaneously to uniform static electric field and two microwave fields with commensurate frequencies is considered in the range of small fields amplitudes. In the certain range of the parameters of the system the classical secular motion of the electronic ellipse reveals chaotic behavior. Quantum mechanically, when the fine structure of the atom is taken into account, the energy level statistics obey predictions appropriate for the symplectic Gaussian random matrix ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0101084
title: Violations of local realism with quNits up to N=16
authors: Thomas Durt, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: 5 pages, 3 ps pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101084
abstract: Predictions for systems in entangled states cannot be described in local realistic terms. However, after admixing some noise such a description is possible. We show that for two quNits (quantum systems described by N dimensional Hilbert spaces) in a maximally entangled state the minimal admixture of noise increases monotonically with N. The results are a direct extension of those of Kaszlikowski et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 85}, 4418 (2000), where results for $N\leq 9$ were presented. The extension up to N=16 is possible when one defines for each N a specially chosen set of observables. We also present results concerning the critical detectors efficiency beyond which a valid test of local realism for entangled quNits is possible.

id: quant-ph/0101085
title: Foundations of Probability and Physics, Round table
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101085
abstract: We present the summary of the general discussion on the probabilistic foundations of quantum theory that took place during the round table at the Int. Conf. "Foundations of Probability and Physics", V\"axj\"o, Sweden-2000. It is possible to find at this http URL continuation of this Round Table. You can send your contribution by Email to A. Khr. (subject: Round Table).

id: quant-ph/0101086
title: Relativistic precession of quantum elliptical states in the Coulomb potential
authors: Michael G.A. Crawford
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Am.J.Phys, revised for style, improved figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101086
abstract: A special relativistic perturbation to non-relativistic quantum mechanics is shown to lead to the special relativistic prediction for the rate of precession for quantum states in the Coulomb potential. This behavior is shown using SO(4) coherent states as examples. These states are localized on Kepler ellipses and precess in the presence of a relativistic perturbation.

id: quant-ph/0101087
title: Bell's inequalities I: An explanation for their experimental violation
authors: Louis Sica
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Communications 170 (1999) 55-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101087
abstract: Derivations of two Bell's inequalities are given in a form appropriate to the interpretation of experimental data for explicit determination of all the correlations. They are arithmetic identities independent of statistical reasoning and thus cannot be violated by data that meets the conditions for their validity. Two experimentally performable procedures are described to meet these conditions. Once such data are acquired, it follows that the measured correlations cannot all equal a negative cosine of angular differences. The relation between this finding and the predictions of quantum mechanics is discussed in a companion paper.

id: quant-ph/0101088
title: Does Indeterminism Give Rise to an Intrinsic Time Arrow?
authors: Shahar Dolev, Avshalom C. Elitzur, Meir Hemmo
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to Studies in Hist. and Phil. of Mod. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101088
abstract: In any physical theory that admits true indeterminism, the thermodynamic arrow of time can arise regardless of the system's initial conditions. Hence on such theories time's arrow emerges out of the basic physical interactions. The example of the GRW theory is studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0101089
title: Positive P simulations of spin squeezing in a two-component Bose condensate
authors: Uffe V. Poulsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101089
abstract: The collisional interaction in a Bose condensate represents a non-linearity which in analogy with non-linear optics gives rise to unique quantum features. In this paper we apply a Monte Carlo method based on the positive P pseudo-probability distribution from quantum optics to analyze the efficiency of spin squeezing by collisions in a two-component condensate. The squeezing can be controlled by choosing appropiate collision parameters or by manipulating the motional states of the two components.

id: quant-ph/0101090
title: Constructing Qubits in Physical Systems
authors: Lorenza Viola, Emanuel Knill, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 16 pages, no figures; IoP LaTeX2e style. Submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101090
abstract: The notion of a qubit is ubiquitous in quantum information processing. In spite of the simple abstract definition of qubits as two-state quantum systems, identifying qubits in physical systems is often unexpectedly difficult. There are an astonishing variety of ways in which qubits can emerge from devices. What essential features are required for an implementation to properly instantiate a qubit? We give three typical examples and propose an operational characterization of qubits based on quantum observables and subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0101091
title: Masses and fields in Microdynamics: a possible foundation for dynamic gravity
authors: W.A. Hofer
comments: 15 pages (LaTeX), to appear in Frontiers of Fundamental Physics, Hyderabad (2001). For a nontechnical overview of Microdynamics see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101091
abstract: The quest for a complete theory of microphysics is probably near the top of the agenda in fundamental physics today. We survey existing modifications of quantum mechanics to assess their potential. In the following we present recent results in microdynamics, focussing on dynamic charge. The theoretical model, valid at all length scales, relates mass oscillations to static electric and gravity fields. The same concept is used, with substantially lower frequencies, to compute the intensity of gravity waves within the solar system. These waves, in the range of kilohertz, can in principle be detected.

id: quant-ph/0101092
title: Temporally stable coherent states in energy degenerate systems: The hydrogen atom
authors: Michael G.A. Crawford
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62(1), 012104-1 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101092
abstract: Klauder's recent generalization of the harmonic oscillator coherent states [J. Phys. A 29, L293 (1996)] is applicable only in non-degenerate systems, requiring some additional structure if applied to systems with degeneracies. The author suggests how this structure could be added, and applies the complete method to the hydrogen atom problem. To illustrate how a certain degree of freedom in the construction may be exercised, states are constructed which are initially localized and evolve semi-classically, and whose long time evolution exhibits "fractional revivals."

id: quant-ph/0101093
title: Generic entanglement generation, quantum statistics and complementarity
authors: S. Bose, D. Home
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101093
abstract: A general and an arbitrarily efficient scheme for entangling the spins (or any spin-like degree of freedom) of two independent uncorrelated identical particles by a combination of two particle interferometry and which way detection is formulated. It is shown that the same setup could be used to identify the quantum statistics of the incident particles from either the sign or the magnitude of measured spin correlations. Our setup also exhibits a curious complementarity between particle distinguishability and the amount of generated entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101094
title: Bell's inequalities II: logical loophole in their interpretation
authors: Louis Sica
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Communications 170 (1999) 61-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101094
abstract: Assumed data streams from a delayed choice gedanken experiment must satisfy a Bell's identity independently of locality assumptions. The violation of Bell's inequality by assumed correlations of identical form among these data streams implies that they cannot all result from statistically equivalent variables of a homogeneous process. This is consistent with both the requirements of arithmetic and distinctions between commuting and noncommuting observables in quantum mechanics. Neglect of these distinctions implies a logical loophole in the conventional interpretation of Bell's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0101095
title: Quantum Complex Henon-Heiles Potentials
authors: Carl M. Bender, Gerald V. Dunne, Peter N. Meisinger, Mehmet Simsek
comments: 14 pp, 4 figs
journal: Phys.Lett. A281 (2001) 311-316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101095
abstract: Quantum-mechanical PT-symmetric theories associated with complex cubic potentials such as V=x^2+y^2+igxy^2 and V=x^2+y^2+z^2+igxyz, where g is a real parameter, are investigated. These theories appear to possess real, positive spectra. Low-lying energy levels are calculated to very high order in perturbation theory. The large-order behavior of the perturbation coefficients is determined using multidimensional WKB tunneling techniques. This approach is also applied to the complex Henon-Heiles potential V=x^2+y^2+ig(xy^2-x^3/3).

id: quant-ph/0101096
title: Entangled Nonorthogonal States and Their Decoherence Properties
authors: Osamu Hirota, Steven J.van Enk, Kazuo Nakamura, Masaki Sohma, Kentaro Kato
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to J of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101096
abstract: This paper presents properties of the so-called quasi-Bell states: entangled states written as superpositions of nonorthogonal states. It is shown that a special class of those states, namely entangled coherent states, are more robust against decoherence due to photon absorption than the standard bi-photon Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0101097
title: Entanglement of transverse modes in a pendular cavity
authors: Stefano Mancini, Alessandra Gatti
comments: 10 pages, 4 eps figures, ReVTeX file, to appear in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt
journal: J. Opt. B 3, S66 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101097
abstract: We study the phenomena that arise in the transverse structure of electromagnetic field impinging on a linear Fabry-Perot cavity with an oscillating end mirror. We find quantum correlations among transverse modes which can be considered as a signature of their entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0101098
title: Quantum Cryptography
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Gr¨¦goire Ribordy, Wolfgang Tittel, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 55 pages, 32 figures; to appear in Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101098
abstract: Quantum cryptography could well be the first application of quantum mechanics at the individual quanta level. The very fast progress in both theory and experiments over the recent years are reviewed, with emphasis on open questions and technological issues.

id: quant-ph/0101099
title: Decoherent Histories for Spacetime Domains
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 28 pages, Latex. To appear in the volume, Time in Quantum Mechanics, edited by J.G.Muga, R. Sala Mayato and I.L.Egususquiza (Springer, Berlin, 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101099
abstract: The decoherent histories approach is a natural medium in which to address problems in quantum theory which involve time in a non-trivial way. This article reviews the various attempts and difficulties involved in using the decoherent histories approach to calculate the probability for crossing the surface $x=0$ during a finite interval of time. The commonly encountered difficulties in assigning crossing times arise here as difficulties in satisfying the consistency (no-interference) condition. This can be overcome by introducing an environment to produce decoherence, and probabilities exhibiting the expected classical limit are obtained. The probabilities are, however, dependent to some degree on the decohering environment. The results are compared with a recently proposed irreversible detector model. A third method is introduced, involving continuous quantum measurement theory. Some closely related work on the interpretation of the wave function in quantum cosmology is described.

id: quant-ph/0101100
title: Optimal Non-Universally Covariant Cloning
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Lo Presti
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101100
abstract: We consider non-universal cloning maps, namely cloning transformations which are covariant under a proper subgroup G of the universal unitary group U(d), where d is the dimension of the Hilbert space H of the system to be cloned. We give a general method for optimizing cloning for any cost-function. Examples of applications are given for the phase-covariant cloning (cloning of equatorial qubits) and for the Weyl-Heisenberg group (cloning of "continuous variables").

id: quant-ph/0101101
title: Quantum cloning machines for equatorial qubits
authors: Heng Fan, Keiji Matsumoto, Xiang-Bin Wang, Miki Wadati
comments: Revtex, 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A65, 012304(2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101101
abstract: Quantum cloning machines for equatorial qubits are studied. For the case of 1 to 2 phase-covariant quantum cloning machine, we present the networks consisting of quantum gates to realize the quantum cloning transformations. The copied equatorial qubits are shown to be separable by using Peres-Horodecki criterion. The optimal 1 to M phase-covariant quantum cloning transformations are given.

id: quant-ph/0101102
title: Mathematical Foundations of Holonomic Quantum Computer II
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex file, 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101102
abstract: This is a sequel to the papers (quant-ph/9910063) and (quant-ph/0004102). The aim of this paper is to give mathematical foundations to Holonomic Quantum Computation (Computer) proposed by Zanardi and Rasetti (quant-ph/9904011) and Pachos and Chountasis (quant-ph/9912093). In 2-qubit case we give an explicit form to non-abelian Berry connection of quantum computational bundle which is associated with Holonomic Quantum Computation, on some parameter space. We also suggest a possibility that not only usual holonomy but also higher-dimensional holonomies must be used to prove a universality of our Holonomic Quantum Computation.

id: quant-ph/0101103
title: Characterization of high finesse mirrors: loss, phase shifts and mode structure in an optical cavity
authors: Christina J. Hood, H. J. Kimble, Jun Ye
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 033804 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101103
abstract: An extensive characterization of high finesse optical cavities used in cavity QED experiments is described. Different techniques in the measurement of the loss and phase shifts associated with the mirror coatings are discussed and their agreement shown. Issues of cavity field mode structure supported by the dielectric coatings are related to our effort to achieve the strongest possible coupling between an atom and the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0101104
title: Quantum limits in interferometric measurements
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages
journal: Europhys.Lett.13:301-306,1990
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101104
abstract: Quantum noise limits the sensitivity of interferometric measurements. It is generally admitted that it leads to an ultimate sensitivity, the ``standard quantum limit''. Using a semi-classical analysis of quantum noise, we show that a judicious use of squeezed states allows one in principle to push the sensitivity beyond this limit. This general method could be applied to large scale interferometers designed for gravitational wave detection.

id: quant-ph/0101105
title: Quantum Bit Commitment in a Noisy Channel
authors: S.N.Molotkov, S.S.Nazin
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101105
abstract: Under rather general assumptions about the properties of a noisy quantum channel, a first quantum protocol is proposed which allows to implement the secret bit commitment with the probability arbitrarily close to unity.

id: quant-ph/0101106
title: Entanglement and Dynamic Stability of Nash Equilibria in a Symmetric Quantum Game
authors: A.Iqbal, A.H.Toor
comments: Latex,no figure,submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol 286/4, pp 245-250, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101106
abstract: We study the evolutionary stability of Nash equilibria (NE) in a symmetric quantum game played by the recently proposed scheme of applying `identity' and `Pauli spin flip' operators on the initial state with classical probabilities. We show that in this symmetric game dynamic stability of a NE can be changed when the game changes its form, for example, from classical to quantum. It happens even when the NE remains intact in both forms.

id: quant-ph/0101107
title: Probabilistic nonlocal gate operation via imperfect entanglement
authors: Jingak Jang, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim, Y.-J. Park
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101107
abstract: Nonlocal gate operation is based on sharing an ancillary pair of qubits in perfect entanglement. When the ancillary pair are partially entangled, the efficiency of the gate operation drops. Using general transformations, we devise probabilistic nonlocal gates, which perform the nonlocal operation conclusively when the ancillary pair are only partially entangled. We show that a controlled purification protocol can be implemented by the probabilistic nonlocal operation.

id: quant-ph/0101108
title: "All versus nothing" inseparability for two observers
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 010403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101108
abstract: A recent proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1911 (2001)] is formulated as a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-like proof involving just two observers. On one hand, this new approach allows us to derive an experimentally testable Bell inequality which is violated by quantum mechanics. On the other hand, it leads to a new state-independent proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem and provides a wider perspective on the relations between the major proofs of no-hidden-variables.

id: quant-ph/0101109
title: Reducing the linewidth of an atom laser by feedback
authors: H.M. Wiseman, L.K. Thomsen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: PRL 86, 1143 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101109
abstract: A continuous atom laser will almost certainly have a linewidth dominated by the effect of the atomic interaction energy, which turns fluctuations in the condensate atom number into fluctuations in the condensate frequency. These correlated fluctuations mean that information about the atom number could be used to reduce the frequency fluctuations, by controlling a spatially uniform potential. We show that feedback based on a physically reasonable quantum non-demolition measurement of the atom number of the condensate in situ can reduce the linewidth enormously.

id: quant-ph/0101110
title: Quantum Communication between N partners and Bell's inequalities
authors: Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 87 (2001) 117901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101110
abstract: We consider a family of quantum communication protocols involving $N$ partners. We demonstrate the existence of a link between the security of these protocols against individual attacks by the eavesdropper, and the violation of some Bell's inequalities, generalizing the link that was noticed some years ago for two-partners quantum cryptography. The arguments are independent of the local hidden variable debate.

id: quant-ph/0101111
title: Visible compression of commuting mixed states
authors: W. D¨¹r, G. Vidal, J.I. Cirac
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 022308 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101111
abstract: We analyze the problem of quantum data compression of commuting density operators in the visible case. We show that the lower bound for the compression factor given by the Levitin--Holevo function is reached by providing an explicit protocol.

id: quant-ph/0101112
title: Spontaneous Bremsstrahlung in Scattering of an Electron by a Nucleus in the Field of Two Light Waves
authors: Sergey P. Roshchupkin, Oleg B. Lysenko
comments: 10 pages. E-mail: roshchupkin@academy.sumy.ua
journal: Laser Physics 9 (1999) 494-503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101112
abstract: We theoretically investigate nonresonant spontaneous bremsstrahlung in the scattering of an electron by a nucleus in the field of two linearly polarized light waves propagating in the same direction in the general relativistic case. It is demonstrated that there are two substantially different kinematic ranges: the noninterference range, where the Bunkin-Fedorov quantum parameters serve as multiphoton parameters,and the interference range, where interference effects become significant, and quantum interference parameters play the role of multiphoton parameters. We determine the cross sections of electron-nucleus spontaneous bremsstrahlung in these kinematic ranges. It is demonstrated that the partial cross section in the interference range with emission (absorption) of photons at combination frequencies may considerably exceed the corresponding cross section for any other geometry.

id: quant-ph/0101113
title: A " quantum public key " based cryptographic scheme for continuous variables
authors: Patrick Navez, Alessandra Gatti, Luigi A. Lugiato
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101113
abstract: By analogy to classical cryptography, we develop a "quantum public key" based cryptographic scheme in which the two public and private keys consist in each of two entangled beams of squeezed light. An analog message is encrypted by modulating the phase of the beam sent in public. The knowledge of the degree of non classical correlation between the beam quadratures measured in private and in public allows only the receiver to decrypt the message. Finally, in a view towards absolute security, we formally prove that any external intervention of an eavesdropper makes him vulnerable to any subsequent detection.

id: quant-ph/0101114
title: Casimir Effect for a Dielectric Wedge
authors: I. Brevik, K. Pettersen
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX. Minor typos corrected. To appear in Annals of Physics 291 (2001) 1 (July issue)
journal: Annals Phys.291:267-275,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101114
abstract: The Casimir effect is considered for a wedge with opening angle $\alpha $, with perfectly conducting walls, when the interior region is filled with an isotropic and nondispersive medium with permittivity $\epsilon $ and permeability $\mu $. The electromagnetic energy-momentum tensor in the bulk is calculated, together with the surface stress on the walls. A discussion is given on the possibilities for measuring the influence of the medium, via the Casimir-Polder force.

id: quant-ph/0101115
title: Quantum fluctuations of position of a mirror in vacuum
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 12 pages
journal: J.Phys.I(France) 3 (1993) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101115
abstract: A mirror scattering vacuum fields is submitted to a quantum fluctuating radiation pressure. It also experiences a motional force, related to force fluctuations through fluctuation-dissipation relations. The resulting position fluctuations of the coupled mirror are related to the dissipative part of the mechanical admittance. We compute the time dependent position commutator, which makes apparent the difference between the low-frequency and high-frequency masses, and the anticommutator noise spectrum, which describes the ultimate sensitivity in a length measurement using mirrors.

id: quant-ph/0101116
title: Quantum fluctuations of vacuum stress tensors and spacetime curvatures
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 11 pages
journal: Annalen Phys. 4 (1995) 68-86
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101116
abstract: We analyze the quantum fluctuations of vacuum stress tensors and spacetime curvatures, using the framework of linear response theory which connects these fluctuations to dissipation mechanisms arising when stress tensors and spacetime metric are coupled. Vacuum fluctuations of spacetime curvatures are shown to be a sum of two contributions at lowest orders; the first one corresponds to vacuum gravitational waves and is restricted to light-like wavevectors and vanishing Einstein curvature, while the second one arises from gravity of vacuum stress tensors. From these fluctuations, we deduce noise spectra for geodesic deviations registered by probe fields which determine ultimate limits in length or time measurements. In particular, a relation between noise spectra characterizing spacetime fluctuations and the number of massless neutrino fields is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0101117
title: Classical information capacity of superdense coding
authors: G. Bowen
comments: 3 pages, ReVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 022302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101117
abstract: Classical communication through quantum channels may be enhanced by sharing entanglement. Superdense coding allows the encoding, and transmission, of up to two classical bits of information in a single qubit. In this paper, the maximum classical channel capacity for states that are not maximally entangled is derived. Particular schemes are then shown to attain this capacity, firstly for pairs of qubits, and secondly for pairs of qutrits.

id: quant-ph/0101118
title: Von Neumann's Formulation of Quantum Theory and the Role of Mind in Nature
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: Submitted Jan. 12, 2001 to Proc. Roy. Soc.. The first half, apart from title and abstract, is taken from my earlier paper ``From Quantum Nonlocality to Mind-Brain Interaction''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101118
abstract: Orthodox Copenhagen quantum theory renounces the quest to understand the reality in which we are imbedded, and settles for practical rules that describe connections between our observations. Many physicist have believed that this renunciation of the attempt describe nature herself was premature, and John von Neumann, in a major work, reformulated quantum theory as theory of the evolving objective universe. In the course of his work he converted to a benefit what had appeared to be a severe deficiency of the Copenhagen interpretation, namely its introduction into physical theory of the human observers. He used this subjective element of quantum theory to achieve a significant advance on the main problem in philosophy, which is to understand the relationship between mind and matter. That problem had been tied closely to physical theory by the works of Newton and Descartes. The present work examines the major problems that have appeared to block the development of von Neumann's theory into a fully satisfactory theory of Nature, and proposes solutions to these problems.

id: quant-ph/0101119
title: Quantum Data Compression of Ensembles of Mixed States with Commuting Density Operators
authors: Gerhard Kramer, Serap A. Savari
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101119
abstract: We provide a rate distortion interpretation of the problem of quantum data compression of ensembles of mixed states with commuting density operators. There are two versions of this problem. In the visible case the sequence of states is available to the encoder and in the blind or hidden case the encoder may access only a sequence of measurements. We find the exact optimal compression rates for both the visible and hidden cases. Our analysis includes the scenario in which asymptotic reconstruction is imperfect.

id: quant-ph/0101120
title: An Entangled Tale of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 49 pages, 7 figures. AMS Short Course Lecture to appear in "Quantum Computation," PSAPM Series, Amer. Math. Soc., Providence, RI
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101120
abstract: This paper gives an overview from the perspective of Lie group theory of some of the recent advances in the rapidly expanding research area of quantum entanglement. This paper is a written version of the last of eight one hour lectures given in the American Mathematical Society (AMS) Short Course on Quantum Computation held in conjunction with the Annual Meeting of the AMS in Washington, DC, USA in January 2000. More information about the AMS Short Course can be found at this http URL

id: quant-ph/0101121
title: Quantum algebraic representation of localization and motion of a Dirac electron
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Serge Reynaud
comments: 10 pages, Frontier Tests of QED and Physics of the Vacuum, Trieste, 5-11/10/2000
journal: "QED and Physics of the Vacuum", ed. G. Cantatore (AIP Proceedings, 2001) 58-67
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101121
abstract: Quantum algebraic observables representing localization in space-time of a Dirac electron are defined. Inertial motion of the electron is represented in the quantum algebra with electron mass acting as the generator of motion. Since transformations to uniformly accelerated frames are naturally included in this conformally invariant description, the quantum algebra is also able to deal with uniformly accelerated motion.

id: quant-ph/0101122
title: Sub-wavelength lithography over extended areas
authors: Gunnar Bjork, Luis L. Sanchez Soto, Jonas Soderholm
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, 1 table. Written in RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev. A64 (2001) 013811
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101122
abstract: We demonstrate a systematic approach to sub-wavelength resolution lithographic image formation on films covering areas larger than a wavelength squared. For example, it is possible to make a lithographic pattern with a feature size resolution of $\lambda/[2(N+1)]$ by using a particular $2 M$-photon, multi-mode entangled state, where $N < M$, and banks of birefringent plates. By preparing a statistically mixed such a state one can form any pixel pattern on a $(N+1) 2^{M-N} \times (N+1) 2^{M-N}$ pixel grid occupying a square with a side of $L=2^{M-N-1}$ wavelengths. Hence, there is a trade-off between the exposed area, the minimum lithographic feature size resolution, and the number of photons used for the exposure. We also show that the proposed method will work even under non-ideal conditions, albeit with somewhat poorer performance.

id: quant-ph/0101123
title: Relaxation Method For Calculating Quantum Entanglement
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 25 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .eps, 2 .sty) 95% same paper. Corrected minor mistakes and typos. Made many small changes to make more user friendly. Added simple but useful ideas about convexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101123
abstract: In a previous paper, we showed how entanglement of formation can be defined as a minimum of the quantum conditional mutual information (a.k.a. quantum conditional information transmission). In classical information theory, the Arimoto-Blahut method is one of the preferred methods for calculating extrema of mutual information. In this paper, we present a new method, akin to the Arimoto-Blahut method, for calculating entanglement of formation. We also present several examples computed with a computer program called Causa Comun that implements the ideas of this paper.

id: quant-ph/0101124
title: Linear in temperature correction to the Casimir force
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, M. V. Lokhanin
comments: 5 pages, REVTEX, to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A280 (2001) 177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101124
abstract: We discuss the temperature correction to the Casimir force between nonideal metallic bodies which caused disagreement in the literature. A general method to find the troubling term is proposed that does not require a direct reference to the Lifshitz formula. The linear in temperature correction is shown to survive for nonideal metals. It is important for small separations between bodies tested in the recent experiments.

id: quant-ph/0101125
title: Approximate integrals of motion and the quantum chaoticity problem
authors: V. E. Bunakov, I. B. Ivanov
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101125
abstract: The problem of existence and constructing of integrals of motion in stationary quantum mechanics and its connection with quantum chaoticity is discussed. It is shown that the earlier suggested quantum chaoticity criterion characterizes destruction of initial symmetry of regular system and of basis quantum numbers under influence of perturbation. The convergent procedure allowing to construct approximate integrals of motion in the form of non-trivial combinations depending on operators $(q,p)$ is suggested. Properties of the obtained integrals with complicated structure and the consequences of their existence for system's dynamics are discussed. The method is used for explicit construction and investigation of the approximate integrals in Henon-Heiles problem.

id: quant-ph/0101126
title: Universal construction for the unsorted quantum search algorithms
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 45 pages and 1 PS figure. Add Appendix C that how to solve quantum search problem on an NMR quantum computer by starting at the thermal equilibrium state in a spin ensemble of linear molecules
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101126
abstract: The multiple-quantum operator algebra formalism has been exploited to construct generally an unsorted quantum search algorithm. The exponential propagator and its corresponding effective Hamiltonian are constructed explicitly that describe in quantum mechanics the time evolution of a multi- particle two-state quantum system from the initial state to the output of the unsorted quantum search problem. The exponential propagator usually may not be compatible with the mathematical structure and principle of the search problem and hence is not a real quantum search network, but it can be further decomposed into a product of a series of the oracle unitary operations such as the selective phase-shift operations and the nonselective unitary operations which can be expressed further as a sequence of elementary building blocks such as one-qubit quantum gates and the two-qubit diagonal phase gates, resulting in that the decomposed propagator is compatible with the mathematical structure and principle of the search problem and thus, becomes a real quantum search network. The decomposition for the propagator can be achieved with the help of the operator algebra structure and symmetry of the effective Hamiltonian, and the properties of the multiple-quantum operator algebra spaces, especially the characteristic transformation behavior of the multiple-quantum operators under the z-axis rotations. It has been shown that the computational complexity of the search algorithm is dependent upon that of the numerical multidimensional integration and hence it is believed that the search algorithm could solve efficiently the unsorted search problem. An NMR device is also proposed to solve efficiently the unsorted search problem in polynomial time.

id: quant-ph/0101127
title: Law of Malus and Photon-Photon Correlations: A Quasi-Deterministic Analyzer Model
authors: Bill Dalton
comments: 11 pages, Revtex, 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101127
abstract: For polarization experiments involving photon counting we introduce a quasi-deterministic eigenstate transition model of the analyzer process. Distributions accumulated one photon at a time, provide a deterministic explanation for the law of Malus. We combine this analyzer model with causal polarization coupling to calculate photon-photon correlations, one photon pair at a time. The calculated correlations exceed the Bell limits and show excellent agreement with the measured correlations of [ A. Aspect, P. Grangier and G. Rogers, Phys. Rev. Lett. 49 91 (1982)]. We discuss why this model exceeds the Bell type limits.

id: quant-ph/0101128
title: Temperature dependence of the Casimir force between real metals: problems and approach to their resolution
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 44 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.63, p.062108-1-18 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101128
abstract: We investigate the Casimir force acting between real metals at nonzero temperature. It is shown that the zero-frequency term of Lifshitz formula has interpretation problem in the case of real metal described by Drude model. It happens because the scattering theory underlying Lifshitz formula is not well formulated when the dielectric permittivity takes account of dissipation. To give the zeroth term of Lifshitz formula the definite meaning different prescriptions were used recently by different authors with diversed results. These results are shown to be improper and in disagreement with experiment and the general physical requirements. We propose the new prescription which is a generalization of Schwinger, DeRaad and Milton recipe formulated earlier for ideal metals. On this base the detailed numerical and analytical computations of the temperature Casimir force are performed in configuration of two plane plates and a spherical lens (sphere) above a plate. The corrections due to nonzero temperature and finite conductivity found in the paper are in agreement with the limiting case of perfect metal and fit all experimental and theoretical requirements. Among other facts, the previous results obtained in frames of plasma model are confirmed. It appears they are the limiting case of Drude model computations when the relaxation parameter goes to zero. The comparison with the Casimir force acting between dielectric test bodies is made.

id: quant-ph/0101129
title: 75 Years of the Wavefunction: Complex-Dynamical Extension of the Original Wave Realism and the Universal Schroedinger Equation
authors: Andrei P. Kirilyuk
comments: 34 pages, 27 eqs, 78 refs; Dedicated to the 75th Anniversary of the wavefunction and wave equation introduction by Erwin Schroedinger; Reviews a part of the author's book "Universal Concept of Complexity by the Dynamic Redundance Paradigm: Causal Randomness, Complete Wave Mechanics, and the Ultimate Unification of Knowledge" (Kyiv, Naukova Dumka, 1997; in English), see physics/9806002; new text format, stylistic corrections in v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101129
abstract: Following Max Planck's hypothesis of quanta (quant-ph/0012069) and the matter wave idea of Louis de Broglie (quant-ph/9911107), Erwin Schroedinger proposed, at the beginning of 1926, the concept of wavefunction and wave equation for it. Though endowed with a realistic undular interpretation by its father, the wavefunction could not be considered as a real "matter wave" and has been provided with only abstract, formally probabilistic interpretation. In this paper we show how the resulting "mysteries" of usual theory are solved within the unreduced, dynamically multivalued description of the underlying, essentially nonlinear interaction process (quant-ph/9902015, quant-ph/9902016), without artificial modification of the Schroedinger equation. The latter is rigorously derived instead as universal expression of unreduced interaction complexity. Causal, totally realistic wavefunction is obtained as a dynamically probabilistic intermediate state of a simple system with interaction performing dynamically discrete transitions between its localised, incompatible "realisations" ("corpuscular" states). Causal wavefunction and Schroedinger equation are then extended to arbitrary level of world dynamics. We outline some applications of the obtained causal description, such as genuine quantum chaos (quant-ph/9511034-36) and realistic quantum devices (physics/0211071), and emphasize the basic difference of the proposed dynamically multivalued theory from dynamically single-valued imitations of causality and complexity. The causally complete wavefunction concept, representing the unified essence of unreduced (multivalued) complex dynamics, provides a clear distinctive feature of realistic science, absent in any its unitary imitation.

id: quant-ph/0101130
title: Understanding the production of dual BEC with sympathetic cooling
authors: G. Delannoy, S.G. Murdoch, V. Boyer, V. Josse, P. Bouyer, A. Aspect
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101130
abstract: We show, both experimentally and theoretically, that sympathetic cooling of $^{87}$Rb atoms in the $|F=2,m_F=2>$ state by evaporatively cooled atoms in the $|F=1,m_F=-1>$ state can be precisely controlled to produce dual or single condensate in either state. We also study the thermalization rate between two species. Our model renders a quantitative account of the observed role of the overlap between the two clouds and points out that sympathetic cooling becomes inefficient when the masses are very different. Our calculation also yields an analytical expression of the thermalization rate for a single species.

id: quant-ph/0101131
title: PT symmetric square well
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 9 pages, latex, one figure
journal: Physics Letters A 285 (2001) 7 - 10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101131
abstract: In a PT symmetrically complexified square well, bound states are constructed by the matching technique. Their energies prove real in a domain of weak non-Hermiticity, and continuous in the Hermitian limit. At a sequence of certain strong-Hermiticity thresholds, the lowest two energies merge and disappear.

id: quant-ph/0101132
title: On Bohmian trajectories in two-particle interference devices
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages including one LaTeX figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101132
abstract: Claims have been made that, in two-particle interference experiments involving bosons, Bohmian trajectories may entail observable consequences incompatible with standard quantum mechanics. By general arguments and by an examination of specific instances, we show that this is not the case.

id: quant-ph/0101133
title: Time and Space Bounds for Reversible Simulation
authors: Harry Buhrman, J. Tromp, Paul Vitanyi
comments: 11 pages LaTeX, Proc ICALP 2001, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol xxx Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2001
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 34(2001), 6821--6830.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101133
abstract: We prove a general upper bound on the tradeoff between time and space that suffices for the reversible simulation of irreversible computation. Previously, only simulations using exponential time or quadratic space were known. The tradeoff shows for the first time that we can simultaneously achieve subexponential time and subquadratic space. The boundary values are the exponential time with hardly any extra space required by the Lange-McKenzie-Tapp method and the ($\log 3$)th power time with square space required by the Bennett method. We also give the first general lower bound on the extra storage space required by general reversible simulation. This lower bound is optimal in that it is achieved by some reversible simulations.

id: quant-ph/0101134
title: The mean king's problem: Prime degrees of freedom
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Yakir Aharonov
comments: Originally submitted to Physical Review Letters; updated version now submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, vol. 284, 2001, pp. 1-5
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101134
abstract: We show how one can ascertain the values of a complete set of mutually complementary observables of a prime degree of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0101135
title: Rotational invariance and the Pauli exclusion principle
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Hadronic Journal, Vol. 25(4), 407(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101135
abstract: In this article, the rotational invariance of entangled quantum states is investigated as a possible cause of the Pauli exclusion principle. First, it is shown that a certain class of rotationally invariant states can only occur in pairs. This will be referred to as the coupling principle. This in turn suggests a natural classification of quantum systems into those containing coupled states and those that do not. Surprisingly, it would seem that Fermi-Dirac statistics follows as a consequence of this coupling while the Bose-Einstein follows by breaking it. Finally, the experimental evidence to justify the above classification will be discussed. Pacs: 3.65.Bz, 5.30 d, 12.40.Ee

id: quant-ph/0101136
title: Possibility of the tunneling time determination
authors: Julius Ruseckas
comments: 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A (01 April 2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101136
abstract: We show that it is impossible to determine the time a tunneling particle spends under the barrier. However, it is possible to determine the asymptotic time, i.e., the time the particle spends in a large area including the barrier. We propose a model of time measurements. The model provides a procedure for calculation of the asymptotic tunneling and reflection times. The model also demonstrates the impossibility of determination of the time the tunneling particle spends under the barrier. Examples for delta-form and rectangular barrier illustrate the obtained results.

id: quant-ph/0101137
title: Geometrisation of quantum formalism
authors: O.A. Olkhov
comments: 4 pages, LaTex
journal: Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Particles, Strings and Cosmology (PASCOS 99), Lake Tahoe, California, 10-16 December 1999; Singapure=New=Jersey=Hong-Kong.: World Scientific, 2000, P.160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101137
abstract: We show that the Dirac equation can be rewritten as a relation describing the fundamental symmetry group of special topological manifold corresponding to the Dirac wave field. It leads to unification of the time-space and internal symmetries within one symmetry group. We suppose that nonelectromagnetic interactions appear within such approach as the deviations of the metrics from the euclidian form. The expression for the long-range part of "effective" nucleon-nucleon potential is derived using this assumption.

id: quant-ph/0101138
title: Adapted-operator representations: Selective versus collective properties of quantum networks
authors: Alexander Otte, Guenter Mahler
comments: 17 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 62, 012303 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101138
abstract: Based on local unitary operators acting on a n-dimensional Hilbert-space, we investigate selective and collective operator basis sets for N-particle quantum networks. Selective cluster operators are used to derive the properties of general cat-states for any n and N. Collective operators are conveniently used to account for permutation symmetry: The respective Hilbert-space dimension is then only polynomial in N and governed by strong selection rules. These selection rules can be exploited for the design of decoherence-free subspaces as well as for the implementation of efficient routes to entanglement if suspended switching between states of different symmetry classes could be realized.

id: quant-ph/0101139
title: Algebraic-statistical approach to quantum mechanics
authors: D. A. Slavnov
comments: 9 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101139
abstract: It is proposed the scheme of quantum mechanics, in which a Hilbert space and the linear operators are not primary elements of the theory. Instead of it certain variant of the algebraic approach is considered. The elements of noncommutative algebra (observables) and the nonlinear functionals on this algebra (physical states) are used as the primary constituents. The functionals associate with results of a particular measurement. It is suggested to consider certain ensembles of the physical states as quantum states of the standart quantum mechanics. It is shown that in such scheme the mathematical formalism of the standart quantum mechanics can be reproduced completely.

id: quant-ph/0101140
title: Quantum Approach to a Derivation of the Second Law of Thermodynamics
authors: Jochen Gemmer, Alexander Otte, Guenter Mahler
comments: 4 pages. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101140
abstract: We re-interprete the microcanonical conditions in the quantum domain as constraints for the interaction of the "gas-subsystem" under consideration and its environment ("container"). The time-average of a purity-measure is found to equal the average over the respective path in Hilbert-space. We then show that for typical (degenerate or non-degenerate) thermodynamical systems almost all states within the allowed region of Hilbert-space have a local von Neumann-entropy S close to the maximum and a purity P close to its minimum, respectively. Typically thermodynamical systems should therefore obey the second law.

id: quant-ph/0101141
title: A note on measurement
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101141
abstract: Grounded on the quantum measurement riddle, a general argument against the universal validity of the superposition principle was recently put forward by Bassi and Ghirardi. It is pointed out that this argument is valid only within the realm of the philosophy of ``objectivistic realism'' which is not a necessary part of the foundations of physics, and that recent developments including decoherence theory do account for the appearance of macroscopic objects without resorting to a break of the principle.

id: quant-ph/0101142
title: A quantum computing scheme for the Hamiltonian path problem
authors: G. Sampath
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101142
abstract: A quantum computing scheme that uses a single photon and multiple-slit gratings is suggested for the Hamiltonian path problem on a simple graph G of N vertices. The photon is input to an N-slit grating followed by an N x N matrix of `processing units'. A unit consists of a delay line followed by a grating with k slits (0 < k < N) whose outputs are directed to k units in the next row in a manner determined by the adjacency matrix of G. There is a one-to-one mapping between paths of length N-1 in the graph and physical paths through the matrix. The photon's path is a superposition of all these physical paths. The time taken by the photon along a physical path corresponding to a Hamiltonian path in G is a fixed value equal to the sum of N distinct delays, and is different from the time along any other path. The graph is Hamiltonian if any one of N detectors placed in the output of the N units in row N detects the photon at this fixed time.

id: quant-ph/0101143
title: Identification of all Hardy-type correlations for two photons or particles with spin 1/2
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 22 pages, no figures. Forthcoming in Found. Phys. Letters
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 14 (2001) 401-424
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101143
abstract: By using an alternative, equivalent form of the CHSH inequality and making extensive use of the experimentally testable property of physical locality we determine the 64 different Bell-type inequalities (each one involving four joint probabilities) into which Hardy's nonlocality theorem can be cast. This allows one to identify all the two-qubit correlations which can exhibit Hardy-type nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0101144
title: What is Possible Without Disturbing Partially Known Quantum States?
authors: Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 24 pages, no fogure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101144
abstract: Consider a situation in which a quantum system is secretly prepared in a state chosen from the known set of states. We present a principle that gives a definite distinction between the operations that preserve the states of the system and those that disturb the states. The principle is derived by alternately applying a fundamental property of classical signals and a fundamental property of quantum ones. The principle can be cast into a simple form by using a decomposition of the relevant Hilbert space, which is uniquely determined by the set of possible states. The decomposition implies the classification of the degrees of freedom of the system into three parts depending on how they store the information on the initially chosen state: one storing it classically, one storing it nonclassically, and the other one storing no information. Then the principle states that the nonclassical part is inaccessible and the classical part is read-only if we are to preserve the state of the system. From this principle, many types of no-cloning, no-broadcasting, and no-imprinting conditions can easily be derived in general forms including mixed states. It also gives a unified view on how various schemes of quantum cryptography work. The principle helps to derive optimum amount of resources (bits, qubits, and ebits) required in data compression or in quantum teleportation of mixed-state ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0101145
title: Mimicking a Kerrlike medium in the dispersive regime of second-harmonic generation
authors: A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, J. Delgado
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures Submitted to Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101145
abstract: We find an effective Hamiltonian describing the process of second-harmonic generation in the far-off resonant limit. We show that the dynamics of the fundamental mode is governed by a Kerrlike Hamiltonian. Some dynamical consequences are examined.

id: quant-ph/0101146
title: Einstein's quantum clocks and Poincare's classical clocks in special relativity
authors: Y.G.A Pierseaux
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures, 2 appendixes, talk given (in French)in "L'institut Henri Poincare", Paris, March 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101146
abstract: Einstein's reply to Weyl about the importance in General Relativity of the identity of the sources of spectral lines is well know. We show that, already in Special Relavitity, Einstein's definition of the unit of time from the frequency of atomic emission is deeply incompatible with Poincare's classical conception of time in his special relativity based on the duality "true time-local time". By using Weisskopf's analysis of quantum nature of the identity of atoms, we show that the concept of identity is implicit in Einstein's principle of relativity. On the contrary, in Poincare's relativistic logic, the use of the Lorentz transformations compensates the differences (contraction of lengths and dilation of durations) that are real by principle. The borderline "quantum-classical" passes therefore clearly between the two conceptions of the clocks in special relativity.

id: quant-ph/0101147
title: Radiation trapping in coherent media
authors: A. B. Matsko, I. Novikova, M. O. Scully, G. R. Welch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0101147
abstract: We show that the effective decay rate of Zeeman coherence, generated in a Rb87 vapor by linearly polarized laser light, increases significantly with the atomic density. We explain this phenomenon as the result of radiation trapping. Our study shows that radiation trapping must be taken into account to fully understand many electromagnetically induced transparency experiments with optically thick media.

id: cond-mat/0101102
title: Spin-based quantum computation in multielectron quantum dots
authors: Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 2-column pages in RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 64}, 042312 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101102
abstract: In a quantum computer the hardware and software are intrinsically connected because the quantum Hamiltonian (or more precisely its time development) is the code that runs the computer. We demonstrate this subtle and crucial relationship by considering the example of electron-spin-based solid state quantum computer in semiconductor quantum dots. We show that multielectron quantum dots with one valence electron in the outermost shell do not behave simply as an effective single spin system unless special conditions are satisfied. Our work compellingly demonstrates that a delicate synergy between theory and experiment (between software and hardware) is essential for constructing a quantum computer.

id: cond-mat/0101157
title: An Electromechanical Which-Path Interferometer
authors: A. D. Armour, M. P. Blencowe
comments: 38 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 035311 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101157
abstract: We investigate the possibility of an electromechanical which-path interferometer, in which electrons travelling through an Aharonov-Bohm ring incorporating a quantum dot in one of the arms are dephased by an interaction with the fundamental flexural mode of a radio frequency cantilever. The cantilever is positioned so that its tip lies just above the dot and a bias is applied so that an electric field exists between the dot and the tip. This electric field is modified when an additional electron hops onto the dot, coupling the flexural mode of the cantilever and the microscopic electronic degrees of freedom. We analyze the transmission properties of this system and the dependence of interference fringe visibility on the cantilever-dot coupling and on the mechanical properties of the cantilever. The fringes are progressively destroyed as the interaction with the cantilever is turned up, in part due to dephasing arising from the entanglement of the electron and cantilever states and also due to the thermal smearing that results from fluctuations in the state of the cantilever. When the dwell time of the electron on the dot is comparable to or longer than the cantilever period, we find coherent features in the transmission amplitude. These features are washed out when the cantilever is decohered by its coupling to the environment.

id: cond-mat/0101275
title: Rigorous approach to the problem of ultraviolet divergencies in dilute Bose gases
authors: Maxim Olshanii, Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, no figures; identical copy of the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 010402 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101275
abstract: We have found an expression for the full many-body Green's function of N pairwise finite-range interacting atoms, in a form of a chain fraction involving two-body T-matrices only, with no explicit presence of the interaction potentials themselves. We show that in the limit of infinitely small potential range, this expression reduces to the Green's function for N atoms interacting via a generalized pseudo-potential, function of a free parameter \Lambda. Using this \Lambda-freedom we resolve all inconsistensies of the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov formalism known so far, with no ad hoc modifications of the theory.

id: cond-mat/0101338
title: Coherent-State Approach to Two-dimensional Electron Magnetism
authors: J. P. Gazeau, P. Y. Hsiao, A. Jellal
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 65 (2002) 094427
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101338
abstract: We study in this paper the possible occurrence of orbital magnetim for two-dimensional electrons confined by a harmonic potential in various regimes of temperature and magnetic field. Standard coherent state families are used for calculating symbols of various involved observables like thermodynamical potential, magnetic moment, or spatialdistribution of current. Their expressions are given in a closed form and the resulting Berezin-Lieb inequalities provide a straightforward way to study magnetism in various limit regimes. In particular, we predict a paramagnetic behaviour in the thermodynamical limit as well as in the quasiclassical limit under a weak field. Eventually, we obtain an exact expression for the magnetic moment which yields a full description of the phase diagram of the magnetization.

id: cond-mat/0101349
title: On an exactly solvable $B_N$ type Calogero model with nonhermitian PT invariant interaction
authors: B. Basu-Mallick, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Revtex, 13 pages, No figures, Minor changes, Version to appear in Phys. Lett A
journal: Phys.Lett. A284 (2001) 231-237
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101349
abstract: An exactly solvable many-particle quantum system is proposed by adding some nonhermitian but PT invariant interactions to the $B_N$ Calogero model. We have shown that such extended $B_N$ Calogero model leads to completely real spectrum which obey generalised exclusion statistics. It is also found that the corresponding exchange statistics parameter exhibit `reflection symmetry' provided the strength of a PT invariant interaction exceeds a critical value.

id: cond-mat/0101454
title: Spin Environment Engineering for a Persistent Current Qubit
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga
comments: 4 pages in RevTex plus 2 .eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0101454
abstract: A persistent current qubit has two quantum states with opposite currents flowing in a superconducting loop. Their magnetic field couple to nuclear spins. The qubit state is not only perturbed by the spins but it also gets entangled with the spins' state on a very short timescale. However, when the same spins are exposed to a strong but less than critical external magnetic field, then the qubit field is just a small perturbation on top of the external field and the entanglement with each spin is negligible. For a qubit which is more microscopic than certain threshold this partial entanglement results in negligible partial decoherence.

id: cs/0101004
title: Decomposing Finite Abelian Groups
authors: Kevin K. H. Cheung, Michele Mosca
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0101004
abstract: This paper describes a quantum algorithm for efficiently decomposing finite Abelian groups. Such a decomposition is needed in order to apply the Abelian hidden subgroup algorithm. Such a decomposition (assuming the Generalized Riemann Hypothesis) also leads to an efficient algorithm for computing class numbers (known to be at least as difficult as factoring).

id: gr-qc/0101104
title: Quantum nondemolition measurements and non-Newtonian Gravity
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: 11 pages, accepted in 'Exact solutions and scalar fields in gravity: Recent Developments', A. Macias, J. Cervantes-Cota, and C. Laemmerzahl, eds., Kluwer Academic Publishing
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0101104
abstract: In the present work the detection, by means of a nondemolition measurement, of a Yukawa term, coexisting simultaneously with gravity, has been considered. In other words, a nondemolition variable for the case of a particle immersed in a gravitational field containing a Yukawa term is obtained. Afterwards the continuous monitoring of this nondemolition parameter is analyzed, the corresponding propagator is evaluated, and the probabilities associated with the possible measurement outputs are found. The relevance of these kind of proposals in connection with some unified theories of elementary particles has been underlined.

id: hep-ph/0101160
title: A model for decoherence of entangled beauty
authors: R.A. Bertlmann, W. Grimus
comments: 11 pages, revtex. Two references and some comments added, version to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D64:056004,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0101160
abstract: In the context of the entangled $B^0 \bar B^0$ state produced at the $\Upsilon(4S)$ resonance, we consider a modification of the usual quantum-mechanical time evolution with a dissipative term, which contains only one parameter denoted by $\lambda$ and respects complete positivity. In this way a decoherence effect is introduced in the time evolution of the 2-particle $B^0 \bar B^0$ state, which becomes stronger with increasing distance between the two particles. While our model of time evolution has decoherence for the 2-particle system, we assume that, after the decay of one of the two B mesons, the resulting 1-particle state obeys the purely quantum-mechanical time evolution. From the data on dilepton events we derive an upper bound on $\lambda$. We also show how $\lambda$ is related to the so-called ``decoherence parameter'' $\zeta$, which parameterizes decoherence in neutral flavoured meson--antimeson systems.

id: hep-ph/0101247
title: The pionic width of the $¦Ø(782)$ meson within a well-defined, unitary quantum field theory of (anti-)particles and (anti-)holes
authors: Frieder Kleefeld, Eef van Beveren, George Rupp
comments: 21 pages, no figures; revision of interference effects; new references included
journal: Nucl.Phys.A694:470-488,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0101247
abstract: We investigate the indirect generation of the partial width of the $\omega(782)$ meson with respect to the reaction $\omega(782) \to \rho(770) \pi \to\pi^+\pi^-\pi^0$ within the context of a ``Unitary Effective Resonance Model'' (UERM), which has previously been applied to resonant fermionic field operators, here extended to scalar, pseudoscalar and vector bosonic fields. The $\omega(782)$ meson is described by a (quasi-)real field, while the intermediate $\rho(770)$ meson is considered to be a resonant degree of freedom, which can be treated consistently within the UERM. In the limit of an infinitesimal width (imaginary part of self-energy), the UERM yields a consistent treatment of relativistic quantum field theory (QFT). Some aspects of the UERM of (anti-)particles and (anti-)holes are discussed.

id: hep-ph/0101356
title: Bell inequalities for entangled kaons and their unitary time evolution
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: REVTeX, 22 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A63:062112,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0101356
abstract: We investigate Bell inequalities for neutral kaon systems from Phi resonance decay to test local realism versus quantum mechanics. We emphasize the unitary time evolution of the states, that means we also include all decay product states, in contrast to other authors. Only this guarantees the use of the complete Hilbert space. We develop a general formalism for Bell inequalities including both arbitrary "quasi spin" states and different times; finally we analyze Wigner-type inequalities. They contain an additional term, a correction function h, as compared to the spin 1/2 or photon case, which changes considerably the possibility of quantum mechanics to violate the Bell inequality. Examples for special "quasi spin" states are given, especially those which are sensitive to the CP parameters epsilon and epsilon'.

id: hep-th/0101063
title: Relativistic Gamow Vectors I Derivation from Poles of the S-Matrix
authors: A.Bohm, H.Kaldass, S.Wickramasekara
comments: 40 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0101063
abstract: A state vector description for relativistic resonances is derived from the first order pole of the $j$-th partial $S$-matrix at the invariant square mass value $\sm_R=(m-i\Gamma/2)^2$ in the second sheet of the Riemann energy surface. To associate a ket, called Gamow vector, to the pole, we use the generalized eigenvectors of the four-velocity operators in place of the customary momentum eigenkets of Wigner, and we replace the conventional Hilbert space assumptions for the in- and out-scattering states with the new hypothesis that in- and out-states are described by two different Hardy spaces with complementary analyticity properties. The Gamow vectors have the following properties: - They are simultaneous generalized eigenvectors of the four velocity operators with real eigenvalues and of the self-adjoint invariant mass operator $M=(P_\mu P^\mu)^{1/2}$ with complex eigenvalue $\sqrt{\sm_R}$. - They have a Breit-Wigner distribution in the invariant square mass variable $\sm$ and lead to an exactly exponential law for the decay rates and probabilities.

id: hep-th/0101121
title: Time Asymmetric Boundary Conditions and the Definition of Mass and Width for Relativistic Resonances
authors: A.R.Bohm, R.de la Madrid, B.A.Tay, P.Kielanowski
comments: 21 pages revtex file
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0101121
abstract: The definition of mass and width of relativistic resonances and in particular of the $Z$-boson is discussed. For this we use the theory based on time asymmetric boundary conditions given by Hardy class spaces ${\mathbf \Phi}_-$ and ${\mathbf \Phi}_+$ for prepared in-states and detected out-states respectively, rather than time symmetric Hilbert space theory. This Hardy class boundary condition is a mathematically rigorous form of the singular Lippmann-Schwinger equation. In addition to the rigorous definition of the Lippmann-Schwinger kets $|[j,{\mathsf s}]^{\pm}>$ as functionals on the spaces ${\mathbf \Phi}_{\mp}$, one obtains Gamow kets $|[j,{\mathsf s}_R]^- >$ with complex centre-of-mass energy value ${\mathsf s}_R=(M_R-i\Gamma_R/2)^2$. The Gamow kets have an exponential time evolution given by $\exp{(-iM_Rt-\Gamma_Rt/2)}$ which suggests that $(M_R,\Gamma_R)$ is the right definition of the mass and width of a resonance. This is different from the two definitions of the $Z$-boson mass and width used in the Particle Data Table and leads to a numerical value of $M_R=(91.1626\pm 0.0031) {\rm GeV}$ from the $Z$-boson lineshape data.

id: hep-th/0101126
title: M(atrix) Theory: Matrix Quantum Mechanics as a Fundamental Theory
authors: Washington Taylor
comments: 56 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX, revtex style; v2: references added
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.73:419-462,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0101126
abstract: A self-contained review is given of the matrix model of M-theory. The introductory part of the review is intended to be accessible to the general reader. M-theory is an eleven-dimensional quantum theory of gravity which is believed to underlie all superstring theories. This is the only candidate at present for a theory of fundamental physics which reconciles gravity and quantum field theory in a potentially realistic fashion. Evidence for the existence of M-theory is still only circumstantial---no complete background-independent formulation of the theory yet exists. Matrix theory was first developed as a regularized theory of a supersymmetric quantum membrane. More recently, the theory appeared in a different guise as the discrete light-cone quantization of M-theory in flat space. These two approaches to matrix theory are described in detail and compared. It is shown that matrix theory is a well-defined quantum theory which reduces to a supersymmetric theory of gravity at low energies. Although the fundamental degrees of freedom of matrix theory are essentially pointlike, it is shown that higher-dimensional fluctuating objects (branes) arise through the nonabelian structure of the matrix degrees of freedom. The problem of formulating matrix theory in a general space-time background is discussed, and the connections between matrix theory and other related models are reviewed.

id: hep-th/0101190
title: Fractional helicity, Lorentz symmetry breaking, compactification and anyons
authors: Sergey M. Klishevich, Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Michel Rausch de Traubenberg
comments: 19 pages; minor changes, references added. To appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys.B616:419-436,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0101190
abstract: We construct the covariant, spinor sets of relativistic wave equations for a massless field on the basis of the two copies of the R-deformed Heisenberg algebra. For the finite-dimensional representations of the algebra they give a universal description of the states with integer and half-integer helicity. The infinite-dimensional representations correspond formally to the massless states with fractional (real) helicity. The solutions of the latter type, however, break down the (3+1)$D$ Poincar\'e invariance to the (2+1)$D$ Poincar\'e invariance, and via a compactification on a circle a consistent theory for massive anyons in $D$=2+1 is produced. A general analysis of the ``helicity equation'' shows that the (3+1)$D$ Poincar\'e group has no massless irreducible representations with the trivial non-compact part of the little group constructed on the basis of the infinite-dimensional representations of $sl(2,\CC)$. This result is in contrast with the massive case where integer and half-integer spin states can be described on the basis of such representations, and means, in particular, that the (3+1)$D$ Dirac positive energy covariant equations have no massless limit.

id: math-ph/0101009
title: On Fractional Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics: The Fractional Supersymmetric Oscillator
authors: M. Daoud, M.R. Kibler
comments: 14 pages, LaTex file. Paper written from a lecture presented (by M.R.K.) at the Sixth International School on Theoretical Physics ``Symmetry and Structural Properties of Condensed Matter'', a school devoted to the memory of Louis Michel, Myczkowce (Poland), 31 August - 6 September 2000. To be published in ``Symmetry and Structural Properties of Condensed Matter'', eds. T. Lulek, B. Lulek and A. Wal (World Scientific, Singapore, 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0101009
abstract: The Hamiltonian for a fractional supersymmetric oscillator is derived from three approaches. The first one is based on a decomposition in which a Q-uon gives rise to an ordinary boson and a k-fermion (a k-fermion being an object interpolating between boson and fermion). The second one starts from a generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. Finally, the third one relies on the quantum algebra Uq(sl(2)) where q is a root of unity.

id: math-ph/0101024
title: Representations of the Canonical group, (the semi-direct product of the Unitary and Weyl-Heisenberg groups), acting as a dynamical group on noncommuting extended phase space
authors: Stephen G. Low
comments: 25 pages; V2.3, PDF (Mathematica 4.1 source removed due to technical problems); Submitted to J.Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A35:5711-5730,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0101024
abstract: The unitary irreducible representations of the covering group of the Poincare group P define the framework for much of particle physics on the physical Minkowski space P/L, where L is the Lorentz group. While extraordinarily successful, it does not provide a large enough group of symmetries to encompass observed particles with a SU(3) classification. Born proposed the reciprocity principle that states physics must be invariant under the reciprocity transform that is heuristically {t,e,q,p}->{t,e,p,-q} where {t,e,q,p} are the time, energy, position, and momentum degrees of freedom. This implies that there is reciprocally conjugate relativity principle such that the rates of change of momentum must be bounded by b, where b is a universal constant. The appropriate group of dynamical symmetries that embodies this is the Canonical group C(1,3) = U(1,3) *s H(1,3) and in this theory the non-commuting space Q= C(1,3)/ SU(1,3) is the physical quantum space endowed with a metric that is the second Casimir invariant of the Canonical group, T^2 + E^2 - Q^2/c^2-P^2/b^2 +(2h I/bc)(Y/bc -2) where {T,E,Q,P,I,Y} are the generators of the algebra of Os(1,3). The idea is to study the representations of the Canonical dynamical group using Mackey's theory to determine whether the representations can encompass the spectrum of particle states. The unitary irreducible representations of the Canonical group contain a direct product term that is a representation of U(1,3) that Kalman has studied as a dynamical group for hadrons. The U(1,3) representations contain discrete series that may be decomposed into infinite ladders where the rungs are representations of U(3) (finite dimensional) or C(2) (with degenerate U(1)* SU(2) finite dimensional representations) corresponding to the rest or null frames.

id: nlin/0101018
title: Decoherence in chaotic and integrable systems: A random matrix approach
authors: T. Gorin, T. H. Seligman
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures (eps)
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0101018
abstract: In order to analyze the effect of chaos or order on the rate of decoherence in a subsystem we aim to distinguish effects of the two types of dynamics from those depending on the choice of the wave packet. To isolate the former we introduce a random matrix model that permits to vary the coupling strength between the subsystems. The case of strong coupling is analyzed in detail, and we find at intermediate times a weak effect of spectral correlations that is reminiscent of the correlation hole.

id: nlin/0101025
title: Quantum and classical echoes in scattering systems described by simple Smale horseshoes
authors: C. Jung, C. Mejia-Monasterio, T. H. Seligman
comments: 7 pages with 6 reduced quality figures! Please contact the authors (mejia@fis.unam.mx) for an original good quality pre-print
journal: Europhys. Lett. 55 (2001) 616-622
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0101025
abstract: We explore the quantum scattering of systems classically described by binary and other low order Smale horseshoes, in a stage of development where the stable island associated with the inner periodic orbit is large, but chaos around this island is well developed. For short incoming pulses we find periodic echoes modulating an exponential decay over many periods. The period is directly related to the development stage of the horseshoe. We exemplify our studies with a one-dimensional system periodically kicked in time and we mention possible experiments.

id: nlin/0101055
title: A new class of semiclassical wave function uniformizations
authors: Jiri Vanicek, Eric J. Heller
comments: 12 pages (incl. 12 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 026215 (2001).
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0101055
abstract: We present a new semiclassical technique which relies on replacing complicated classical manifold structure with simpler manifolds, which are then evaluated by the usual semiclassical rules. Under circumstances where the original manifold structure gives poor or useless results semiclassically the replacement manifolds can yield remarkable accuracy. We give several working examples to illustrate the theory presented here.

id: physics/0101006
title: Quasiclassical Calculations for Wigner Functions via Multiresolution
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, ws-p8-50x6-00.cls, presented at Capri ICFA Workshop, October, 2000
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0101006
abstract: We present the application of variational-wavelet analysis to numerical/analytical calculations of Wigner functions in (nonlinear) quasiclassical beam dynamics problems. (Naive) deformation quantization and multiresolution representations are the key points.

id: physics/0101007
title: Localized Coherent Structures and Patterns Formation in Collective Models of Beam Motion
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, ws-p8-50x6-00.cls, presented at Capri ICFA Workshop, October, 2000, replaced Fig.1
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0101007
abstract: We present applications of variational -- wavelet approach to three different models of nonlinear beam motions with underlying collective behaviour: Vlasov-Maxwell-Poisson systems, envelope dynamics, beam-beam model. We have the representation for dynamical variables as a multiresolution (multiscales) expansion via high-localized nonlinear eigenmodes in the base of compactly supported wavelet bases. Numerical modelling demonstrates formation of coherent structures and stable patterns.

id: physics/0101054
title: De Broglie wave, spontaneous emission and Planck's radiation law according to stochastic electrodynamics
authors: O. A. Senatchin
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, submitted to Foundations of Physics; v3
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0101054
abstract: The idea about a quantum nature of Planck's blackbody radiation law is deeply rooted in minds of most physicists. Einstein's work, in which the coefficients of spontaneous and induced emission were introduced, has always been regarded as a proof that quantum energy discreteness of an atom plays a crucial role in the derivation of this law. In our paper we avoid this standpoint. It may be shown that the de Broglie wave assigned to every material particle is a result of interaction of the particle with zero-point vibrations of electromagnetic ground field. The energetic spectrum of a harmonic oscillator is obtained from this fact within classical physics which coincides with the quantum result. Thus, it is explained here how the energy discreteness came into existence in stochastic electrodynamics (SED) --- the classical electrodynamics with classical electromagnetic zero-point radiation. Next we reconsider the Einstein work from the viewpoint of SED and derive the Planck formula.

id: physics/0101060
title: Quantum mechanics of Dirac particle beam optics: Single-particle theory
authors: R. Jaganathan
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0101060
abstract: It has been found that quantum corrections can substantially affect the classical results of tracking for trajectories close to the separatrix. Hence the development of a basic formalism for obtaining the quantum maps for any particle beam optical system is called for. To this end, it is observed that several aspects of quantum maps for the beam optics of spin-1/2 particles can be studied, at the level of single particle dynamics, using the proper formalism based on the Dirac equation.

id: math-ph/0101027
title: Imaginary cubic oscillator and its square-well approximations in x- and p-representation
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: in P. Milosav and I. Ercegovaca (editors), Mathematics and Mathematical Logic: New Research (Nova Publishers, 2009), pp.243-260
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0101027
abstract: Schroedinger equation with imaginary PT-symmetric potential $V^{}(x) = i\,x^3$ is studied using the numerical discretization methods in both the coordinate and momentum representations. In the former case our results confirm that the model generates an infinite number of bound states with real energies. In the latter case the differential equation is of the third order and a square-well, solvable approximation of kinetic energy is recommended and discussed. One finds that in the strong-coupling limit, the exact PT-symmetric solutions converge to their Hermitian predecessors.

