id: quant-ph/0103001
title: Quantum Supearrivals
authors: S. Bandyopadhyay, A. S. Majumdar, D. Home
comments: 4 new .eps figures added. Majour changes include explanation of superarrivals through dynamical effect induced by perturbing barrier
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 65 (2002) 052718
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103001
abstract: A curious effect is uncovered by calculating the it time evolving probability of reflection of a Gaussian wave packet from a rectangular potential barrier while it is perturbed by reducing its height. A time interval is found during which this probability of reflection is larger (``superarrivals'') than in the unperturbed case. This nonclassical effect can be explained by requiring a wave function to act as a ``field'' through which an action, induced by the perturbation of the boundary condition, propagates at a speed depending upon the rate of reducing the barrier height.

id: quant-ph/0103002
title: Generation of Continuous Variable Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Entanglement via the Kerr Nonlinearity in an Optical Fibre
authors: Ch. Silberhorn, P. K. Lam, O. Weiss, F. Koenig, N. Korolkova, G. Leuchs
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4267 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103002
abstract: We report on the generation of a continuous variable Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement using an optical fibre interferometer. The Kerr nonlinearity in the fibre is exploited for the generation of two independent squeezed beams. These interfere at a beam splitter and EPR entanglement is obtained between the output beams. The correlation of the amplitude (phase) quadratures are measured to be 4.0+-0.2 (4.0+-0.4) dB below the quantum noise limit. The sum criterion for these squeezing variances 0.80+-0.03 < 2 verifies the nonseparability of the state. The product of the inferred uncertainties for one beam 0.64+-0.08 is well below the EPR limit of unity.

id: quant-ph/0103003
title: Comment on: Necessary and sufficient condition of separability of any system
authors: T. Eggeling, K.G.H. Vollbrecht, M.M. Wolf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103003
abstract: In a recent paper (quant-ph/0102133) Chen, Liang, Li and Huang suggest a necessary and sufficient separability criterion, which is supposedly practical in judging the separability of any mixed state. In this note we briefly recapitulate their main result and show that it is a reformulation of the problem rather than a practical criterion.

id: quant-ph/0103004
title: Remark On Quantum Battle of The Sexes Game
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Xiaodong Xu, Mingjun Shi, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103004
abstract: Recently Quantum Battle of The Sexes Game has been studied by Luca Marinatto and Tullio Weber. Yet some important problems exist in their scheme. Here we propose a new scheme to quantize Battle of The Sexes Game, and this scheme will truly remove the dilemma that exists in the classical form of the game.

id: quant-ph/0103005
title: Mixed State Entanglement: Manipulating Polarisation-Entangled Photons
authors: R. T. Thew, W. J. Munro
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 022320 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103005
abstract: There has been much discussion recently regarding entanglement transformations in terms of local filtering operations and whether the optimal entanglement for an arbitrary two-qubit state could be realised. We introduce an experimentally realisable scheme for manipulating the entanglement of an arbitrary state of two polarisation entangled qubits. This scheme is then used to provide some perspective to the mathematical concepts inherent in this field with respect to a laboratory environment. Specifically, we look at how to extract enhanced entanglement from systems with a fixed rank and in the case where the rank of the density operator for the state can be reduced, show how the state can be made arbitrarily close to a maximally entangled pure state. In this context we also discuss bounds on entanglement in mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0103006
title: Quantum enhanced positioning and clock synchronization
authors: V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication by Nature
journal: Nature 412, 417 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103006
abstract: A wide variety of positioning and ranging procedures are based on repeatedly sending electromagnetic pulses through space and measuring their time of arrival. This paper shows that quantum entanglement and squeezing can be employed to overcome the classical power/bandwidth limits on these procedures, enhancing their accuracy. Frequency entangled pulses could be used to construct quantum positioning systems (QPS), to perform clock synchronization, or to do ranging (quantum radar): all of these techniques exhibit a similar enhancement compared with analogous protocols that use classical light. Quantum entanglement and squeezing have been exploited in the context of interferometry, frequency measurements, lithography, and algorithms. Here, the problem of positioning a party (say Alice) with respect to a fixed array of reference points will be analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0103007
title: Control of Non-Resonant Effects in a Nuclear Spin Quantum Computer with a Large Number of Qubits
authors: G.P. Berman, G.D. Doolen, D.I. Kamenev, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 4 pages of RevTex including 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103007
abstract: We discuss how to simulate simple quantum logic operations with a large number of qubits. These simulations are needed for experimental testing of scalable solid-state quantum computers. Quantum logic for remote qubits is simulated in a spin chain. Analytical estimates are presented for possible correlated errors caused by non-resonant transitions. A range of parameters is given in which non-resonant effects can be minimized.

id: quant-ph/0103008
title: Solid-State Quantum Computer Based on Scanning Tunneling Microscopy
authors: G.P. Berman, G.W. Brown, M.E. Hawley, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 3pages RevTex including 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103008
abstract: We propose a solid-state nuclear spin quantum computer based on application of scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and well-developed silicon technology. It requires the measurement of tunneling current modulation caused by the Larmor precession of a single electron spin. Our envisioned STM quantum computer would operate at the high magnetic field ($\sim 10$T) and at low temperature $\sim 1$K.

id: quant-ph/0103009
title: Onset of Chaos in a Model of Quantum Computation
authors: G.P.Berman, F.Borgonovi, F.M.Izrailev, V.I.Tsifrinovich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103009
abstract: We show that a magnetic field gradient can suppress the onset of quantum chaos in a nuclear spin chain quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0103010
title: Analysis of nonperturbative fluctuations in a triple-well potential
authors: J. Casahorran
comments: 12 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys.Lett. A283 (2001) 285-290
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103010
abstract: We consider the quantum tunneling phenomenon in a well-behaved triple-well potential. As required by the semiclassical approximation we take into account the quadratic fluctuations over the instanton which represents as usual the localised finite-action solution of the euclidean equation of motion. The determinants of the quadratic differential operators at issue are evaluated by means of the Gelfang-Yaglom method. In doing so the explicit computation of the conventional ratio of determinants takes as reference the harmonic oscillator whose frequency is the average of the individual frequencies derived from the non-equivalent minima of the potential. Eventually the physical effects of the multi-instanton configurations are included in this approach. As a matter of fact we obtain information about the energies of the ground-state and the two first excited levels of the discrete spectrum at issue.

id: quant-ph/0103011
title: Introduction to Grassmann Manifolds and Quantum Computation
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 28 pages, corrected considerably in the process of refereeing. to appear in Journal of Applied Mathematics
journal: J.Appl.Math. 2 (2002) 371-405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103011
abstract: Geometrical aspects of quantum computing are reviewed elementarily for non-experts and/or graduate students who are interested in both Geometry and Quantum Computation. In the first half we show how to treat Grassmann manifolds which are very important examples of manifolds in Mathematics and Physics. Some of their applications to Quantum Computation and its efficiency problems are shown in the second half. An interesting current topic of Holonomic Quantum Computation is also covered. In the Appendix some related advanced topics are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103012
title: Dirac particles in a rotating magnetic field
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: REVTeX, 8 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 34 (2001) 1903-1909
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103012
abstract: We study a relativistic charged Dirac particle moving in a rotating magnetic field. By using a time-dependent unitary transformation, the Dirac equation with the time-dependent Hamiltonian can be reduced to a Dirac-like equation with a time-independent effective Hamiltonian. Eigenstates of the effective Hamiltonian correspond to cyclic solutions of the original Dirac equation. The nonadiabatic geometric phase of a cyclic solution can be expressed in terms of the expectation value of the component of the total angular momentum along the rotating axis, regardless of whether the solution is explictly available. For a slowly rotating magnetic field, the eigenvalue problem of the effective Hamiltonian is solved approximately and the geometric phases are calculated. The same problem for a charged or neutral Dirac particle with an anomalous magnetic moment is discussed briefly.

id: quant-ph/0103013
title: Scattering by a contact potential in three and lower dimensions
authors: Qiong-gui Lin
comments: REVTeX, 9 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 34 (2001) 1911-1918
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103013
abstract: We consider the scattering of nonrelativistic particles in three dimensions by a contact potential $\Omega\hbar^2\delta(r)/ 2\mu r^\alpha$ which is defined as the $a\to 0$ limit of $\Omega\hbar^2\delta(r-a)/2\mu r^\alpha$. It is surprising that it gives a nonvanishing cross section when $\alpha=1$ and $\Omega=-1$. When the contact potential is approached by a spherical square well potential instead of the above spherical shell one, one obtains basically the same result except that the parameter $\Omega$ that gives a nonvanishing cross section is different. Similar problems in two and one dimensions are studied and results of the same nature are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0103014
title: Simulation of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiments in a local hidden variables model with limited efficiency and coherence
authors: W.A. Hofer
comments: 5 pages (RevTeX) and 5 figures (eps). Changed the title (included 'local hidden variables') and specified the exact meaning of the polarizer threshold ('Setup') as well as the importance of digitalization via polarizer beam splitters in the actual experiments ('Ideal measurements'). For related papers see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103014
abstract: We simulate correlation measurements of entangled photons numerically. The model employed is strictly local. The correlation is determined by its classical expression with one decisive difference: we sum up coincidences for each pair individually. We analyze the effects of decoherence, detector efficiency and polarizer thresholds in detail. The Bell inequalities are violated in these simulations. The violation depends crucially on the threshold of the polarizer switches and can reach a value of 2.0 in the limiting case. Existing experiments can be fully accounted for by limited coherence and non-ideal detector switches. It seems thus safe to conclude that the Bell inequalities are no suitable criterium to decide on the nonlocality issue.

id: quant-ph/0103015
title: Tunneling and Traversal of Ultra-cold Atoms through Vacuum Induced Potentials
authors: R. Arun, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 13 pages including 9 figures in Revtex; submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103015
abstract: We examine the passage of ultra-cold two-level atoms through the potential produced by the vacuum of the cavity field. The peak of the transmitted wave packet generally occurs at the instant given by the expression for phase time even if that instant is earlier than the instant at which incident wave packet's peak enters the cavity and thus the phase time can be considered as the appropriate measure of the time required for the atom to traverse the cavity. We show that the phase tunneling time for ultra-cold atoms could be both super - and sub - classical time and we show how this behaviour can be understood in terms of the momentum dependence of the phase of transmission amplitude. The passage of the atom through the cavity is unique as it involves a coherent addition of the transition amplitudes corresponding to both barrier and well. New features such as the splitting of the wave packet arise from the entanglement between the center of mass motion and the electronic as well as field states in the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0103016
title: Boundary of the Set of Separable States
authors: Mingjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103016
abstract: The set of all separable quantum states is compact and convex. We focus on the two-qubit quanum system and study the boundary of the set. Then we give the criterion to determine whether a separable state is on the boundary. Some straightforward geometrical interpretations for entanglement are based on the concept and presented subsequently.

id: quant-ph/0103017
title: Carbon--The First Frontier of Information Processing
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: (v1) 9 pages, revtex. (v2) 10 pages. Several arguments expanded to make the article self-contained and to increase clarity. Applications pointed out. (v3) 11 pages. Published version. Well-known properties of proteins shifted to an appendix. Reformatted according to journal style
journal: Journal of Biosciences 27 (2002) 207-218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103017
abstract: Information is often encoded as an aperiodic chain of building blocks. Modern digital computers use bits as the building blocks, but in general the choice of building blocks depends on the nature of the information to be encoded. What are the optimal building blocks to encode structural information? This can be analysed by substituting the operations of addition and multiplication of conventional arithmetic with translation and rotation. It is argued that at the molecular level, the best component for encoding discretised structural information is carbon. Living organisms discovered this billions of years ago, and used carbon as the back-bone for constructing proteins that function according to their structure. Structural analysis of polypeptide chains shows that an efficient and versatile structural language of 20 building blocks is needed to implement all the tasks carried out by proteins. Properties of amino acids indicate that the present triplet genetic code was preceded by a more primitive one, coding for 10 amino acids using two nucleotide bases.

id: quant-ph/0103018
title: Integral equations of scattering in one dimension
authors: Vania E. Barlette, Marcelo M. Leite, Sadhan K. Adhikari
comments: 12 pages, accepted in American Journal of Physics
journal: Am. J. Phys. 69 (2001) 1010-1013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103018
abstract: A self-contained discussion of integral equations of scattering is presented in the case of centrally-symmetric potentials in one dimension, which will facilitate the understanding of more complex scattering integral equations in two and three dimensions. The present discussion illustrates in a simple fashion the concept of partial-wave decomposition, Green's function, Lippmann-Schwinger integral equations of scattering for wave function and transition operator, optical theorem and unitarity relation. We illustrate the present approach with a Dirac delta potential.

id: quant-ph/0103019
title: Relativistic Restrictions on the Distinguishability of Orthogonal Quantum States
authors: S.N.Molotkov, S.S.Nazin
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure (misprints in formulas corrected)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103019
abstract: We analyze the restrictions on the distinguishability of quantum states imposed by special relativity. An explicit expression relating the error probability for distinguishing between two orthogonal single-photon states with the time $T$ elapsed from the start of the measurement procedure until the measurement result is obtained by the observer.

id: quant-ph/0103020
title: An example of the difference between quantum and classical random walks
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Edward Farhi, Sam Gutmann
comments: 4 pages, 4 EPS figures, REVTeX
journal: Quantum Information Processing 1, 35 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103020
abstract: In this note, we discuss a general definition of quantum random walks on graphs and illustrate with a simple graph the possibility of very different behavior between a classical random walk and its quantum analogue. In this graph, propagation between a particular pair of nodes is exponentially faster in the quantum case.

id: quant-ph/0103021
title: Distinguishing n Hamiltonians on C^n by a single measurement
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 022302, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103021
abstract: If an experimentalist wants to decide which one of n possible Hamiltonians acting on an n dimensional Hilbert space is present, he can conjugate the time evolution by an appropriate sequence of known unitary transformations in such a way that the different Hamiltonians result in mutual orthogonal final states. We present a general scheme providing such a sequence.

id: quant-ph/0103022
title: Quantum control without access to the controlling interaction
authors: Dominik Janzing, Frederik Armknecht, Robert Zeier, Thomas Beth
comments: 10 pages, Revtex
journal: Phsy. Rev. A, 65:022104, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103022
abstract: In our model a fixed Hamiltonian acts on the joint Hilbert space of a quantum system and its controller. We show under which conditions measurements, state preparations, and unitary implementations on the system can be performed by quantum operations on the controller only. It turns out that a measurement of the observable A and an implementation of the one-parameter group exp(iAr) can be performed by almost the same sequence of control operations. Furthermore measurement procedures for A+B, for (AB+BA), and for i[A,B] can be constructed from measurements of A and B. This shows that the algebraic structure of the set of observables can be explained by the Lie group structure of the unitary evolutions on the joint Hilbert space of the measuring device and the measured system. A spin chain model with nearest neighborhood coupling shows that the border line between controller and system can be shifted consistently.

id: quant-ph/0103023
title: Resource reduction via repeaters in entanglement distribution
authors: A. Hutton, S. Bose
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103023
abstract: We show that the amount of entanglement needed as an initial resource to set up a certain final amount of entanglement between two ends of a noisy channel can be reduced in certain cases by using quantum repeaters. Our investigation (for various channels) considers cases when a large number of entangled pairs are transmitted through the channel using known asymptotic results and conjectured bounds on distillable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0103024
title: Quantum Entanglement of Photons in Doubled q-Fock Space
authors: He-Shan Song, Dong Mi, Ling Zhou, Chong Li
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103024
abstract: A doubled q-Fock space is constructed by introducing an idle mode system dual to the physical one under consideration. The quantum entanglements of photons in the squeezed states and thermal states based on the doubled q-Fock space are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103025
title: Classification of mixed three-qubit states
authors: A. Acin, D. Bruss, M. Lewenstein, A. Sanpera
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 040401 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103025
abstract: We introduce a classification of mixed three-qubit states, in which we define the classes of separable, biseparable, W- and GHZ-states. These classes are successively embedded into each other. We show that contrary to pure W-type states, the mixed W-class is not of measure zero. We construct witness operators that detect the class of a mixed state. We discuss the conjecture that all entangled states with positive partial transpose (PPTES) belong to the W-class. Finally, we present a new family of PPTES "edge" states with maximal ranks.

id: quant-ph/0103026
title: Generation of correlated photons in controlled spatial modes by down-conversion in nonlinear waveguides
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Alfred B. U'Ren, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX
journal: Opt. Lett. 26, 1367-1369 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103026
abstract: We report the observation of correlated photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a quasi-phase matched KTiOPO4 nonlinear waveguide. The highest ratio of coincidence to single photon count rates observed in the 830 nm wavelength region exceeds 18%. This makes nonlinear waveguides a promising source of correlated photons for metrology and quantum information processing applications. We also discuss possibilities of controlling the spatial characteristics of the down-converted photons produced in multimode waveguide structures.

id: quant-ph/0103027
title: Relativity of pure states entanglement
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 18 pages 7 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 295, 115 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103027
abstract: Entanglement of any pure state of an N times N bi-partite quantum system may be characterized by the vector of coefficients arising by its Schmidt decomposition. We analyze various measures of entanglement derived from the generalized entropies of the vector of Schmidt coefficients. For N >= 3 they generate different ordering in the set of pure states and for some states their ordering depends on the measure of entanglement used. This odd-looking property is acceptable, since these incomparable states cannot be transformed to each other with unit efficiency by any local operation. In analogy to special relativity the set of pure states equivalent under local unitaries has a causal structure so that at each point the set splits into three parts: the 'Future', the 'Past' and the set of noncomparable states.

id: quant-ph/0103028
title: Einstein-separability, time related hidden parameters for correlated spins, and the theorem of Bell
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103028
abstract: We analyze the assumptions that are made in the proofs of Bell-type inequalities for the results of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type of experiments. We find that the introduction of time-like random variables permits the construction of a broader mathematical model which accounts for all correlations of variables that are contained in the time dependent parameter set of the backward light cone. It also permits to obtain the quantum result for the spin pair correlation, a result that contradicts Bell's inequality. Two key features of our mathematical model are (i) the introduction of time operators that are indexed by the measurement settings and appear in addition to Bell's source parameters and (ii) the related introduction of a probability measure for all parameters that does depend on the analyzer settings. Using the theory of B-splines, we then show that this probability measure can be constructed as a linear combination of setting dependent subspace product measures and that the construction guarantees Einstein-separability.

id: quant-ph/0103029
title: Scattering in quantum tubes
authors: B. Nilsson
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103029
abstract: It is possible to fabricate mesoscopic structures where at least one of the dimensions is of the order of de Broglie wavelength for cold electrons. By using semiconductors, composed of more than one material combined with a metal slip-gate, two-dimensional quantum tubes may be built. We present a method for predicting the transmission of low-temperature electrons in such a tube. This problem is mathematically related to the transmission of acoustic or electromagnetic waves in a two-dimensional duct. The tube is asymptotically straight with a constant cross-section. Propagation properties for complicated tubes can be synthesised from corresponding results for more simple tubes by the so-called Building Block Method. Conformal mapping techniques are then applied to transform the simple tube with curvature and varying cross-section to a straight, constant cross-section, tube with variable refractive index. Stable formulations for the scattering operators in terms of ordinary differential equations are formulated by wave splitting using an invariant imbedding technique. The mathematical framework is also generalised to handle tubes with edges, which are of large technical interest. The numerical method consists of using a standard MATLAB ordinary differential equation solver for the truncated reflection and transmission matrices in a Fourier sine basis. It is proved that the numerical scheme converges with increasing truncation.

id: quant-ph/0103030
title: Virtual Quantum Subsystems
authors: Paolo Zanardi
comments: Presentation improved, to appear in PRL. 4 Pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.87:077901,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103030
abstract: The physical resources available to access and manipulate the degrees of freedom of a quantum system define the set $\cal A$ of operationally relevant observables. The algebraic structure of $\cal A$ selects a preferred tensor product structure i.e., a partition into subsystems. The notion of compoundness for quantum system is accordingly relativized. Universal control over virtual subsystems can be achieved by using quantum noncommutative holonomies

id: quant-ph/0103031
title: Nonclassical Interference Effects In The Radiation From Coherently Driven Uncorrelated Atoms
authors: C. Skornia, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal, E. Werner, H. Walther
comments: 4 pages, 6 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 063801 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103031
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of new nonclassical correlations in the radiation of two atoms, which are coherently driven by a continuous laser source. The photon-photon-correlations of the fluorescence light show a spatial interferene pattern not present in a classical treatment. A feature of the new phenomenon is, that bunched and antibunched light is emitted in different spatial directions. The calculations are performed analytically. It is pointed out, that the correlations are induced by state reduction due to the measurement process when the detection of the photons does not distinguish between the atoms. It is interesting to note, that the phenomena show up even without any interatomic interaction.

id: quant-ph/0103032
title: State and dynamical parameter estimation for open quantum systems
authors: Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 14 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 042105 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103032
abstract: Following the evolution of an open quantum system requires full knowledge of its dynamics. In this paper we consider open quantum systems for which the Hamiltonian is ``uncertain''. In particular, we treat in detail a simple system similar to that considered by Mabuchi [Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 8, 1103 (1996)]: a radiatively damped atom driven by an unknown Rabi frequency $\Omega$ (as would occur for an atom at an unknown point in a standing light wave). By measuring the environment of the system, knowledge about the system state, and about the uncertain dynamical parameter, can be acquired. We find that these two sorts of knowledge acquisition (quantified by the posterior distribution for $\Omega$, and the conditional purity of the system, respectively) are quite distinct processes, which are not strongly correlated. Also, the quality and quantity of knowledge gain depend strongly on the type of monitoring scheme. We compare five different detection schemes (direct, adaptive, homodyne of the $x$ quadrature, homodyne of the $y$ quadrature, and heterodyne) using four different measures of the knowledge gain (Shannon information about $\Omega$, variance in $\Omega$, long-time system purity, and short-time system purity).

id: quant-ph/0103033
title: Monitoring the Dipole-Dipole Interaction via Quantum Jumps of Individual Atoms
authors: C. Skornia, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal, E. Werner, H. Walther
comments: 4 pages, 9 Figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communication Section)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 053803 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103033
abstract: The emission characteristics in the fluorescence of two laser-driven dipole-dipole-interacting three level atoms is investigated. When the light from both atoms is detected separately a correlation of the emission processes is observed in dependence of the dipole-dipole interaction. This opens the possibility to investigate the dipole-dipole interaction through the emission behavior. We present Monte-Carlo simulations which are in good agreement with the analytic solutions.

id: quant-ph/0103034
title: Absorption-free optical control of spin systems:the quantum Zeno effect in optical pumping
authors: T. Nakanishi, K. Yamane, M. Kitano
comments: 4 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65,013404 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103034
abstract: We show that atomic spin motion can be controlled by circularly polarized light without light absorption in the strong pumping limit. In this limit, the pumping light, which drives the empty spin state, destroys the Zeeman coherence effectively and freezes the coherent transition via the quantum Zeno effect. It is verified experimentally that the amount of light absorption decreases asymptotically to zero as the incident light intensity is increased.

id: quant-ph/0103035
title: Two-photon diffraction and quantum lithography
authors: Milena D'Angelo, Maria V. Chekhova, Yanhua H. Shih
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103035
abstract: We report a proof-of-principle experimental demonstration of quantum lithography. Utilizing the entangled nature of a two-photon state, the experimental results have bettered the classical diffraction limit by a factor of two. This is a quantum mechanical two-photon phenomenon but not a violation of the uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0103036
title: Applications of the nilpotent Dirac state vector
authors: Peter Rowlands, J.P. Cullerne
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103036
abstract: The nilpotent version of the Dirac equation is applied to the baryon wavefunction, the strong interaction potential, electroweak mixing, and Dirac and Klein-Gordon propagators. The results are used to interpret a quaternion-vector model of particle structures.

id: quant-ph/0103037
title: Generalized stochastic Schroedinger equations for state vector collapse
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Todd A. Brun
comments: 24 pages Plain TeX. Minor changes, some new references. To appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 34, 4797-4809 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103037
abstract: A number of authors have proposed stochastic versions of the Schr\"odinger equation, either as effective evolution equations for open quantum systems or as alternative theories with an intrinsic collapse mechanism. We discuss here two directions for generalization of these equations. First, we study a general class of norm preserving stochastic evolution equations, and show that even after making several specializations, there is an infinity of possible stochastic Schr\"odinger equations for which state vector collapse is provable. Second, we explore the problem of formulating a relativistic stochastic Schr\"odinger equation, using a manifestly covariant equation for a quantum field system based on the interaction picture of Tomonaga and Schwinger. The stochastic noise term in this equation can couple to any local scalar density that commutes with the interaction energy density, and leads to collapse onto spatially localized eigenstates. However, as found in a similar model by Pearle, the equation predicts an infinite rate of energy nonconservation proportional to $\delta^3(\vec 0)$, arising from the local double commutator in the drift term.

id: quant-ph/0103038
title: Convexity and the Separability Problem of Quantum Mechanical Density Matrices
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications 346, 47-71 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103038
abstract: A finite dimensional quantum mechanical system is modeled by a density rho, a trace one, positive semi-definite matrix on a suitable tensor product space H[N] . For the system to demonstrate experimentally certain non-classical behavior, rho cannot be in S, a closed convex set of densities whose extreme points have a specificed tensor product form. Two mathematical problems in the quantum computing literature arise from this context: (1) the determination whether a given rho is in S and (2) a measure of the ``entanglement'' of such a rho in terms of its distance from S. In this paper we describe these two problems in detail for a linear algebra audience, discuss some recent results from the quantum computing literature, and prove some new results.We emphasize the roles of densities rho as both operators on the Hilbert space H[N] and also as points in a real Hilbert space M. We are able to compute the nearest separable densities tau0 to rho0 in particular classes of inseparable densities and we use the Euclidean distance between the two in M to quantify the entanglement of rho0. We also show the role of tau0 in the construction of separating hyperplanes, so-called entanglement witnesses in the quantum computing literature.

id: quant-ph/0103039
title: Power of Anisotropic Exchange Interactions: Universality and Efficient Codes for Quantum Computing
authors: L.-A. Wu, D. A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, no figures. v4: Title and abstract changed. Added paragraph on state preparation and measurement. Parafermionic notation replaced with standard qubit notation. For treatment of qubits as parafermions see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 042318 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103039
abstract: We study the quantum computational power of a generic class of anisotropic solid state Hamiltonians. A universal set of encoded logic operations are found which do away with difficult-to-implement single-qubit gates in a number of quantum computer proposals, e.g., quantum dots and donor atom spins with anisotropic exchange coupling, quantum Hall systems, and electrons floating on helium.We show how to make the corresponding Hamiltonians universal by encoding one qubit into two physical qubits, and by controlling nearest neighbor interactions.

id: quant-ph/0103040
title: Entanglement of Bell Mixtures of Two Qubits
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: Ver.1 has 18 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .eps, 2 .sty); Ver.2 has 28 pages (files: 1 .tex, 5 .eps, 2 .sty) Added important new material in the form of 3 new appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103040
abstract: This paper is an appendix to a previous paper: quant-ph/0101123 ``Relaxation Method for Calculating Quantum Entanglement", by Robert Tucci. For certain mixtures of Bell basis states, namely the Werner States, we use the theoretical machinery of our previous paper to derive algebraic formulas for: the pure and mixed minimization entanglements (i.e., E_{pure} and E_{mixed}), their optimal decompositions and their entanglement operators. This complements and corroborates some results that were obtained numerically but not algebraically in our previous paper. Some of the algebraic formulas presented here are new. Others were first derived using a different method by Bennett et al in quant-ph/9604024.

id: quant-ph/0103041
title: No place for particles in relativistic quantum theories?
authors: Hans Halvorson, Rob Clifton
comments: 30 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phil.Sci. 69 (2002) 1-28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103041
abstract: Several recent arguments purport to show that there can be no relativistic, quantum-mechanical theory of localizable particles and, thus, that relativity and quantum mechanics can be reconciled only in the context of quantum field theory. We point out some loopholes in the existing arguments, and we provide two no-go theorems to close these loopholes. However, even with these loopholes closed, it does not yet follow that relativity plus quantum mechanics exclusively requires a field ontology, since relativistic quantum field theory itself might permit an ontology of localizable particles supervenient on the fundamental fields. Thus, we provide another no-go theorem to rule out this possibility. Finally, we allay potential worries about this conclusion by arguing that relativistic quantum field theory can nevertheless explain the possibility of "particle detections," as well as the pragmatic utility of "particle talk."

id: quant-ph/0103042
title: Stabilizing distinguishable qubits against spontaneous decay by detected-jump correcting quantum codes
authors: G. Alber, Th. Beth, Ch. Charnes, A. Delgado, M. Grassl, M. Mussinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Letters, vol. 86, no. 19, May 7, 2001, pp. 4402-4405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103042
abstract: A new class of error-correcting quantum codes is introduced capable of stabilizing qubits against spontaneous decay arising from couplings to statistically independent reservoirs. These quantum codes are based on the idea of using an embedded quantum code and exploiting the classical information available about which qubit has been affected by the environment. They are immediately relevant for quantum computation and information processing using arrays of trapped ions or nuclear spins. Interesting relations between these quantum codes and basic notions of design theory are established.

id: quant-ph/0103043
title: Quantum theory and the role of mind in nature
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: To be published in ``Foundations of Physics''. This is a revised version of ``Von Neumann's formulation of quantum theory and the role of mind in nature''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103043
abstract: Orthodox Copenhagen quantum theory renounces the quest to understand the reality in which we are imbedded, and settles for practical rules describing connections between our observations. Many physicist have regarded this renunciation of our effort to describe nature herself as premature, and John von Neumann reformulated quantum theory as a theory of an evolving objective universe interacting with human consciousness. This interaction is associated both in Copenhagen quantum theory and in von Neumann quantum theory with a sudden change that brings the objective physical state of a system in line with a subjectively felt psychical reality. The objective physical state is thereby converted from a material substrate to an informational and dispositional substrate that carries both the information incorporated into it by the psychical realities, and certain dispositions for the occurrence of future psychical realities. The present work examines and proposes solutions to two problems that have appeared to block the development of this conception of nature. The first problem is how to reconcile this theory with the principles of relativistic quantum field theory; the second problem is to understand whether, strictly within quantum theory, a person's mind can affect the activities of his brain, and if so how. Solving the first problem involves resolving a certain nonlocality question. The proposed solution to the second problem is based on a postulated connection between effort, attention, and the quantum Zeno effect. This solution explains on the basis of quantum physics a large amount of heretofore unexplained data amassed by psychologists.

id: quant-ph/0103044
title: Theory of hybrid systems. I. The operator formulation of classical mechanics and semiclassical limit
authors: S. Prvanovic, Z. Maric
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103044
abstract: The algebra of polynomials in operators that represent generalized coordinate and momentum and depend on the Planck constant is defined. The Planck constant is treated as the parameter taking values between zero and some nonvanishing $h_0$. For the second of these two extreme values, introduced operatorial algebra becomes equivalent to the algebra of observables of quantum mechanical system defined in the standard manner by operators in the Hilbert space. For the vanishing Planck constant, the generalized algebra gives the operator formulation of classical mechanics since it is equivalent to the algebra of variables of classical mechanical system defined, as usually, by functions over the phase space. In this way, the semiclassical limit of kinematical part of quantum mechanics is established through the generalized operatorial framework.

id: quant-ph/0103045
title: Local Realistic Theory for PDC Experiments Based on the Wigner Formalism
authors: Alberto Casado, Ramon Risco-Delgado, Emilio Santos
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum mechanics, Gargnano, Italy, September 17-23, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103045
abstract: In this article we present a local hidden variables model for all experiments involving photon pairs produced in parametric down conversion, based on the Wigner representation of the radiation field. A modification of the standard quantum theory of detection is made in order to give a local realist explanation of the counting rates in photodetectors. This model involves the existence of a real zeropoint field, such that the vacumm level of radiation lies below the threshold of the detectors.

id: quant-ph/0103046
title: Theory of hybrid systems. II. The symmetrized product and redefined Lie bracket of quantum mechanics
authors: S. Prvanovic, Z. Maric
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103046
abstract: The symmetrized product for quantum mechanical observables is defined. It is seen as consisting of the ordinary multiplication and the application of the superoperator that orders the operators of coordinate and momentum. This superoperator is defined in a way that allows obstruction free quantization when the observables are considered from the point of view of the algebra. Then, the operatorial version of the Poisson bracket is defined. It is shown that it has all properties of the Lie bracket and that it can substitute the commutator in the von Neumann equation.

id: quant-ph/0103047
title: Critical Examination of the Conceptual Foundations of Classical Mechanics in the Light of Quantum Physics
authors: Gennaro Auletta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103047
abstract: As it is well known, classical mechanics consists of several basic features like determinism, reductionism, completeness of knowledge and mechanicism. In this article the basic assumptions are discussed which underlie those features. It is shown that these basic assumptions - though universally assumed up the beginnings of the XX century - are far from being obvious. Finally it is shown that - to a certain extent - there is nothing wrong in assuming these basic postulates. Rather, the error lies in the epistemological absolutization of the theory, which was considered as a mirroring of Nature.

id: quant-ph/0103048
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradox for continuous variables
authors: Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 062108 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103048
abstract: We show how to construct states for which a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger type paradox occurs if each party measures either the position or momentum of his particle. The paradox can be ascribed to the anticommutation of certain translation operators in phase space. We then rephrase the paradox in terms of modular and binary variables. The origin of the paradox is then due to the fact that the associativity of addition of modular variables is true only for c-numbers but does not hold for operators.

id: quant-ph/0103049
title: Four Photon Entanglement from Down Conversion
authors: Harald Weinfurter, Marek Zukowski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103049
abstract: Double-pair emission from type-II parametric down conversion results in a highly entangled 4-photon state. Due to interference, which is similar to bunching from thermal emission, this state is not simply a product of two pairs. The observation of this state can be achieved by splitting the two emission modes at beam splitters and subsequent detection of a photon in each output. Here we describe the features of this state and give a Bell theorem for a 4-photon test of local realistic hidden variable theories.

id: quant-ph/0103050
title: Quantum-Classical Correspondence for the Equilibrium Distributions of Two Interacting Spins
authors: J. Emerson, L.E. Ballentine
comments: 12 pages revtex, 11 figures, submitted to Phys Rev E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 026217 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103050
abstract: We consider the quantum and classical Liouville dynamics of a non-integrable model of two coupled spins. Initially localised quantum states spread exponentially to the system dimension when the classical dynamics are chaotic. The long-time behaviour of the quantum probability distributions and, in particular, the parameter-dependent rates of relaxation to the equilibrium state are surprisingly well approximated by the classical Liouville mechanics even for small quantum numbers. As the accessible classical phase space becomes predominantly chaotic, the classical and quantum probability equilibrium configurations approach the microcanonical distribution, although the quantum equilibrium distributions exhibit characteristic `minimum' fluctuations away from the microcanonical state. The magnitudes of the quantum-classical differences arising from the equilibrium quantum fluctuations are studied for both pure and mixed (dynamically entangled) quantum states. In both cases the standard deviation of these fluctuations decreases as $(\hbar/{\mathcal J})^{1/2}$, where ${\mathcal J}$ is a measure of the system size. In conclusion, under a variety of conditions the differences between quantum and classical Liouville mechanics are shown to become vanishingly small in the classical limit (${\mathcal J}/\hbar \to \infty$) of a non-dissipative model endowed with only a few degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0103051
title: Maximal Violation of Bell's Inequalities for Continuous Variable Systems
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan, Guang Hou, Yong-De Zhang
comments: RevTEX, 4 pages, no figure. An important note was added
journal: Physical Review Letters 88, 040406 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103051
abstract: We generalize Bell's inequalities to biparty systems with continuous quantum variables. This is achieved by introducing the Bell operator in perfect analogy to the usual spin-1/2 systems. It is then demonstrated that two-mode squeezed vacuum states display quantum nonlocality by using the generalized Bell operator. In particular, the original Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled states, which are the limiting case of the two-mode squeezed vacuum states, can maximally violate Bell's inequality due to Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt. The experimental aspect of our scheme and nonlocality of arbitrary biparticle entangled pure states of continuous variables are briefly considered.

id: quant-ph/0103052
title: Magnetic translation and Berry's phase factor through adiabatically rotating a magnetic field
authors: J. Chee
comments: Submitted to Physics Letters A in November 1999. This paper finds the relation between the solid angle result and the magnetic translation operator. Author of Ref[5] should be J. Zak. It was changed by the publishing editor of Phys.Letts.A 275(2000)473 and the change was erroneously followed in the previous version
journal: Physics Letters A 275 (2000) 473-480
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103052
abstract: For a spin subjected to an adiabatically changing magnetic field, the solid angle result as embodied by a rotation operator is the only path-dependent factor in the quantum evolution operator. For a charged particle, the infinite degeneracy calls for a rigorous investigation. We find that in this case, it is the product of the rotation operator and a path-ordered magnetic translation operator that enters into the evolution operator and determines the geometric phase. This result agrees with the fact that the instantaneous hamiltonian is invariant under magnetic translation as well as rotation. Experimental verification of the result is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0103053
title: Quantum Cloning Machines of a d-level System
authors: Heng Fan, Keiji Matsumoto, Miki Wadati
comments: Revtex, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev.A64, 064301(2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103053
abstract: The optimal N to M ($M>N$) quantum cloning machines for the d-level system are presented. The unitary cloning transformations achieve the bound of the fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0103054
title: Should PT symmetric quantum mechanics be interpreted as nonlinear?
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: shortened version
journal: J. Nonlin. Math. Phys. 9, Suppl. 2 (2002), 122 - 133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103054
abstract: The Feshbach-type reduction of the Hilbert space to the physically most relevant "model" subspace is suggested as a means of a formal unification of the standard quantum mechanics with its recently proposed PT symmetric modification. The resulting "effective" Hamiltonians H(eff) are always Hermitian, and the two alternative forms of their energy-dependence are interpreted as a certain dynamical nonlinearity, responsible for the repulsion and/or attraction of the levels in the Hermitian and/or PT symmetric cases, respectively. The spontaneous PT symmetry breaking is then reflected by the loss of the Hermiticity of H(eff) while the pseudo-unitary evolution law persists in the unreduced Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0103055
title: Random Behaviour in Quantum Chaos
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Withdrawn, see cond-mat/0103246
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103055
abstract: We investigate toy dynamical models of energy - level repulsion in quantum (quasi)energy eigenvalue sequences.

id: quant-ph/0103056
title: Interference enhanced polarization entanglement and the concept of an Entangled-Photon Laser
authors: Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Mikkelsen, John C. Howell, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, revtex 4, submitted to PRL November 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103056
abstract: Inspired by laser operation, we address the question of whether stimulated emission into polarization entangled modes can be achieved. We describe a state produced by stimulated emission of the singlet Bell state and propose a setup for creating it. As a first important step towards an entangled-photon laser we demonstrate experimentally interference-enhanced polarization entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0103057
title: The Foundations of Quantum Information and Feasible Experiments
authors: Christoph Simon
comments: PhD thesis, December 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103057
abstract: This thesis consists of four parts. In the first part it is shown that optimal universal cloning of photons can be realized with the help of stimulated emission. Possible schemes based on three-level systems and on parametric down-conversion are analyzed in detail. The second part shows that the dynamical rules of quantum physics can be derived from its static properties and the condition that superluminal communication is forbidden. In the third part a very simple form of the Kochen-Specker theorem is presented, which leads to a proposal for a simple experimental test of non-contextual hidden variables. The fourth part shows how hidden-variable theorems can be derived in a completely operational way. In particular a Kochen-Specker theorem is derived that applies to experiments with finite precision.

id: quant-ph/0103058
title: Security of EPR-based Quantum Cryptography against Incoherent Symmetric Attacks
authors: Hitoshi Inamori, Luke Rallan, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A., 35, 6913-6918, (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103058
abstract: We investigate a new strategy for incoherent eavesdropping in Ekert's entanglement based quantum key distribution protocol. We show that under certain assumptions of symmetry the effectiveness of this strategy reduces to that of the original single qubit protocol of Bennett and Brassard.

id: quant-ph/0103059
title: Slow group velocity and Cherenkov radiation
authors: I. Carusotto, M. Artoni, G. C. La Rocca, F. Bassani
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103059
abstract: We theoretically study the effect of ultraslow group velocities on the emission of Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation in a coherently driven medium. We show that in this case the aperture of the group cone on which the intensity of the radiation peaks is much smaller than that of the usual wave cone associated with the Cherenkov coherence condition. We show that such a singular behaviour may be observed in a coherently driven ultracold atomic gas.

id: quant-ph/0103060
title: A Simple and Convenient Measure of NMR Rotor Fidelity
authors: M. D. Bowdrey, J. A. Jones
comments: 2 Pages LaTex2e with bjour style. Submitted to Journal of Magnetic Resonance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103060
abstract: We describe a simple scheme for calculating the fidelity of a composite pulse when considered as a universal rotor.

id: quant-ph/0103061
title: Spin squeezing in nonlinear spin coherent states
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, revised version submitted to J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics, 3 (2001)93-96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103061
abstract: We introduce the nonlinear spin coherent state via its ladder operator formalism and propose a type of nonlinear spin coherent state by the nonlinear time evolution of spin coherent states. By a new version of spectroscopic squeezing criteria we study the spin squeezing in both the spin coherent state and nonlinear spin coherent state. The results show that the spin coherent state is not squeezed in the x, y, and z directions, and the nonlinear spin coherent state may be squeezed in the x and y directions.

id: quant-ph/0103062
title: Quantum mechanics vs. local realism, is that the question?
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103062
abstract: The conjecture is made that quantum mechanics is compatible with local hidden variables (or local realism). The conjecture seems to be ruled out by the theoretical argument of Bell, but it is supported by the empirical fact that nobody has been able to perform a loophole-free test of local realism in spite of renewed effort during almost 40 years.

id: quant-ph/0103063
title: Subsystem Purity as an Enforcer of Entanglement
authors: S. Bose, I. Fuentes-Guridi, P.L. Knight, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 050401 (2001); Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 279901 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103063
abstract: We show that entanglement can always arise in the interaction of an arbitrarily large system in any mixed state with a single qubit in a pure state. This small initial purity is enough to enforce entanglement even when the total entropy is close to maximum. We demonstrate this feature using the Jaynes-Cummings interaction of a two level atom in a pure state with a field in a thermal state at an arbitrarily high temperature. We find the time and temperature variation of a lower bound on the amount of entanglement produced and study the classical correlations quantified by the mutual information.

id: quant-ph/0103064
title: What Schr?dinger's Cat is Telling
authors: Guang-jiong Ni
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103064
abstract: The recent experiment on superconducting quantum interference device provides new opportunity to clarify the fundamental interpretation of quantum mechanics. After analyzing this and relevant experiments, we claim the point of view that the quantum state in abstract sense contains no information and the wave function is the probability amplitude of fictitious measurement corresponding to the real one which is prepared to be done by the observer. Talking about the quantum state or wave function too materialized in ordinary language would often cause misunderstanding. So basically, the Schr\"odinger's cat paradox is over.

id: quant-ph/0103065
title: Quantum statistics via perturbation effects of preparation procedures
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103065
abstract: We study the following problem: Is it possible to explain the quantum interference of probabilities in the purely corpuscular model for elementary particles? We demonstrate that (by taking into account perturbation effects of measurement and preparation procedures) we can obtain $\cos\theta$-perturbation (interference term) in probabilistic rule connecting preparation procedures for purely corpuscular objects. On one hand, our investigation demonstrated that there is nothing special in so called `quantum probabilities': the right choice of statistical ensembles gives the possibility to escape all `pathologies'. On the other hand, we found that the standard trigonometric interference of alternatives (observed, in particular, in quantum mechanics) is not the unique possibility to extend (disturb) the conventional probabilistic rule for addition of alternatives. There exist two other probabilistic rules that connect three preparation procedures: hyperbolic and hyper-trigonometric interferences.

id: quant-ph/0103066
title: High-precision evaluation of the Vibrational spectra of long-range molecules
authors: C. Tannous, J. Langlois
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures and 6 tables. To be published in the G. Herzberg memorial issue, Can. J. Physics Vol. 79 (2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103066
abstract: Vibrational spectra of long-range molecules are determined accurately and to arbitrary accuracy with the Canonical Function Method. The energy levels of the $0^-_g$ and $1_u$ electronic states of the $^{23}{\rm Na}_2$ molecule are determined from the Ground state up to the continuum limit. The method is validated by comparison with previous results obtained by Stwalley et al. using the same potential and Trost et al. whose work is based on the Lennard-Jones potential adapted to long-range molecules.

id: quant-ph/0103067
title: Multiparticle entanglement with quantum logic networks: Application to cold trapped ions
authors: Marek Sasura, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 13 pages, Revtex4, 10 eps figures, 2 tables, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A64, 012305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103067
abstract: We show how to construct a multi-qubit control gate on a quantum register of an arbitrary size N. This gate performs a single-qubit operation on a specific qubit conditioned by the state of other N-1 qubits. We provide an algorithm how to build up an array of networks consisting of single-qubit rotations and multi-qubit control-NOT gates for the synthesis of an arbitrary entangled quantum state of N qubits. We illustrate the algorithm on a system of cold trapped ions. This example illuminates the efficiency of the direct implementation of the multi-qubit CNOT gate compared to its decomposition into a network of two-qubit CNOT gates.

id: quant-ph/0103068
title: Spectral decomposition of Bell's operators for qubits
authors: Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figures
journal: J.Phys. A 34 (2001) 6043-6053
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103068
abstract: The spectral decomposition is given for the N-qubit Bell operators with two observables per qubit. It is found that the eigenstates (when non-degenerate) are N-qubit GHZ states even for those operators that do not allow the maximal violation of the corresponding inequality. We present two applications of this analysis. In particular, we discuss the existence of pure entangled states that do not violate any Mermin-Klyshko inequality for $N\geq 3$.

id: quant-ph/0103069
title: Simultaneous intraportation of many quantum states within the quantum computing network
authors: Mang Feng
comments: 14 pages with 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103069
abstract: A scheme is proposed for simultaneous intraportation of many unknown quantum states within a quantum computing network. It is shown that our scheme, much different from the teleportation in the strict sense, can be very similar to the original teleportation proposal[Phys.Rev.Lett.{\bf 70} (1993)1895)] and the efficiency of the scheme for quantum state transmission is very high. The possible applications of our scheme are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103070
title: Observables in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 3 pages = 2 pages text + 1 figure; Typo in Eq. 3 corrected; REVTeX; main argument involves modified quantum clock synchronization protocol (Alice employs a proxy qubit)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103070
abstract: We propose a quantum clock synchronization protocol in which Bob makes a remote measurement on Alice's quantum clock via a third qubit acting as its proxy. It is shown that the resulting correlations are dependent on the choice of the hypersurface along which Bob's measurement of the proxy is deemed to collapse the entangled state vector. A proper characterization of observables in relativistic quantum mechanics is therefore constrained by relativistic covariance as well as causality.

id: quant-ph/0103071
title: The Quantum Newton's Law
authors: A. Bouda, T. Djama
comments: 10 pages, LateX, no figures, minor changes
journal: Phys.Lett. A285 (2001) 27-33
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103071
abstract: Using the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation within the framework of the equivalence postulate, we construct a Lagrangian of a quantum system in one dimension and derive a third order equation of motion representing a first integral of the quantum Newton's law. We then integrate this equation in the free particle case and compare our results to those of Floydian trajectories. Finally, we propose a quantum version of Jacobi's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0103072
title: Exact uncertainty relations: technical details
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: Latex, minor corrections/clarifications. A related, substantially shorter paper focusing on phsyical significance is at quant-ph/0107149
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103072
abstract: The Heisenberg inequality \Delta X \Delta P \geq \hbar/2 can be replaced by an exact equality, for suitably chosen measures of position and momentum uncertainty, which is valid for all wavefunctions. The significance of this "exact" uncertainty relation is discussed, and results are generalised to angular momentum and phase, photon number and phase, time and frequency, and to states described by density operators. Connections to optimal estimation of an observable from the measurement of a second observable, Wigner functions, energy bounds, and entanglement are also given.

id: quant-ph/0103073
title: Quantum recognition of eigenvalues, structure of devices and thermodynamic properties
authors: Yuri I. Ozhigov
comments: 23 pages, Latex
journal: ZhETF, 2003, vol. 123, iss. 2, pp. 384-398
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103073
abstract: Quantum algorithms speeding up classical counterparts are proposed for the problems: 1. Recognition of eigenvalues with fixed precision. Given a quantum circuit generating unitary mapping $U$ and a complex number the problem is to determine is it an eigenvalue of $U$ or not. 2. Given a molecular structure find thermodynamic functions like partitioning function, entropy, etc. for a gas consisting of such molecules. 3. Recognition of molecular structures. Find a molecular structure given its spectrum. 4. Recognition of electronic devices. Given an electronic device that can be used only as a black box how to recognize its internal construction? We consider mainly structures generating sparse spectrums. These algorithms require the time from about square root to logarithm of the time of classical analogs and for the first three problems give exponential memory saving. Say, the time required for distinguishing two devices with the same given spectrum is about seventh root of the time of direct classical method, for the recognition of eigenvalue - about sixth root. Thus microscopic quantum devices can recognize molecular structures and physical properties of environment faster than big classical computers.

id: quant-ph/0103074
title: Single-particle nonlocality and entanglement with the vacuum
authors: G. Bjork, P. Jonsson, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103074
abstract: We propose a single-particle experiment that is equivalent to the conventional two-particle experiment used to demonstrate a violation of Bell's inequalities. Hence, we argue that quantum mechanical nonlocality can be demonstrated by single-particle states. The validity of such a claim has been discussed in the literature, but without reaching a clear consensus. We show that the disagreement can be traced to what part of the total state of the experiment one assigns to the (macroscopic) measurement apparatus. However, with a conventional and legitimate interpretation of the measurement process one is led to the conclusion that even a single particle can show nonlocal properties.

id: quant-ph/0103075
title: On the Nonlocality of the Quantum Channel in the Standard Teleportation Protocol
authors: Rob Clifton, D. T. Pope
comments: 9 pages, no figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 292 (2001) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103075
abstract: By exhibiting a violation of a novel form of the Bell-CHSH inequality, Zukowski has recently established that the quantum correlations exploited in the standard perfect teleportation protocol cannot be recovered by any local hidden variables model. Allowing the quantum channel state in the protocol to be given by any density operator of two spin-1/2 particles, we show that a violation of a generalized form of Zukowski's teleportation inequality can only occur if the channel state, considered by itself, violates a Bell-CHSH inequality. On the other hand, although it is sufficient for a teleportation process to have a nonclassical fidelity-defined as a fidelity exceeding 2/3-that the channel state employed violate a Bell-CHSH inequality, we show that such a violation does not imply a violation of Zukowski's teleportation inequality or any of its generalizations. The implication does hold, however, if the fidelity of the teleportation exceeds $2/3(1+1/2\sqrt{2})\approx .90$, suggesting the existence of a regime of nonclassical values of the fidelity, less than .90, for which the standard teleportation protocol can be modelled by local hidden variables.

id: quant-ph/0103076
title: Bound entanglement for continuous variables is a rare phenomenon
authors: Pawel Horodecki, J. Ignacio Cirac, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: Essentially changed and improved, list of Authors extended, 9 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103076
abstract: We discuss the notion of bound entanglement (BE) for continuous variables (CV). We show that the set of non--distillable states (NDS) for CV is nowhere dense in the set of all states, i.e., the states of infinite--dimensional bipartite systems are generically distillable. This automatically implies that the sets of separable states, entangled states with positive partial transpose, and bound entangled states are also nowhere dense in the set of all states. All these properties significantly distinguish quantum CV systems from the spin like ones. The aspects of the definition of BE for CV is also analysed, especially in context of Schmidt numbers theory. In particular the main result is generalised by means of arbitrary Schmidt number and single copy regime.

id: quant-ph/0103077
title: K-quantum nonlinear coherent states: formulation, realization and nonclassical effects
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103077
abstract: We introduce a generalized class of states called K-quantum nonlinear coherent states. Each K-state has K j-components corresponding to one and the same eigenvalue. Each Kj-component can be composed of K K=1-states in a correlated manner. The introduced states are shown to be realized in the long-term behavior of the vibrational motion of an ion properly trapped and laser-driven. Nonclassical properties of the states are studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0103078
title: The Representation of Numbers in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 23 pages, Revised according to referees comments. Accepted for publication in special issue of Algorithmica
journal: Algorithmica, Vol.34, pp. 529-559, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103078
abstract: Earlier work on modular arithmetic of k-ary representations of length L of the natural numbers in quantum mechanics is extended here to k-ary representations of all natural numbers, and to integers and rational numbers. Since the length L is indeterminate, representations of states and operators using creation and annihilation operators for bosons and fermions are defined. Emphasis is on definitions and properties of operators corresponding to the basic operations whose properties are given by the axioms for each type of number. The importance of the requirement of efficient implementability for physical models of the axioms is emphasized. Based on this, successor operations for each value of j corresponding to addition of k^{j-1} if j>0 and k^{j} if j<0 are defined. It follows from the efficient implementability of these successors, which is the case for all computers, that implementation of the addition and multiplication operators, which are defined in terms of polynomially many iterations of the successors, should be efficient. This is not the case for definitions based on the successor for j=1 only. This is the only successor defined in the usual axioms of arithmetic.

id: quant-ph/0103079
title: Locality in the Everett Interpretation of Heisenberg-Picture Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Minor changes
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 14 (2001) 301-322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103079
abstract: Bell's theorem depends crucially on counterfactual reasoning, and is mistakenly interpreted as ruling out a local explanation for the correlations which can be observed between the results of measurements performed on spatially-separated quantum systems. But in fact the Everett interpretation of quantum mechanics, in the Heisenberg picture, provides an alternative local explanation for such correlations. Measurement-type interactions lead, not to many worlds but, rather, to many local copies of experimental systems and the observers who measure their properties. Transformations of the Heisenberg-picture operators corresponding to the properties of these systems and observers, induced by measurement interactions, "label" each copy and provide the mechanism which, e.g., ensures that each copy of one of the observers in an EPRB or GHZM experiment will only interact with the "correct" copy of the other observer(s). The conceptual problem of nonlocality is thus replaced with a conceptual problem of proliferating labels, as correlated systems and observers undergo measurement-type interactions with newly-encountered objects and instruments; it is suggested that this problem may be resolved by considering quantum field theory rather than the quantum mechanics of particles.

id: quant-ph/0103080
title: Optimal quantum estimation of the coupling between two bosonic modes
authors: G. Mauro D'Ariano, Matteo G. A. Paris, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B vol 3 337 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103080
abstract: We address the problem of the optimal quantum estimation of the coupling parameter of a bilinear interaction, such as the transmittivity of a beam splitter or the internal phase-shift of an interferometer. The optimal measurement scheme exhibits Heisenberg scaling of the measurement precision versus the total energy.

id: quant-ph/0103081
title: The Meaning of the Interaction-Free Measurements
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 10 pages. There is some overlap with quant-ph/0006077 and quant-ph/0102049 which are contributions to conferences where some of the results were presented
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103081
abstract: Interaction-free measurements introduced by Elitzur and Vaidman [Found. Phys. 23, 987 (1993)] allow finding infinitely fragile objects without destroying them. Many experiments have been successfully performed showing that indeed, the original scheme and its modifications lead to reduction of the disturbance of the observed systems. However, there is a controversy about the validity of the term ``interaction-free'' for these experiments. Broad variety of such experiments are reviewed and the meaning of the interaction-free measurements is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0103082
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger nonlocality for continuous variable systems
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Yong-De Zhang
comments: RevTEX; comments are welcomed; new version with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 044102 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103082
abstract: As a development of our previous work, this paper is concerned with the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) nonlocality for continuous variable cases. The discussion is based on the introduction of a pseudospin operator, which has the same algebra as the Pauli operator, for each of the $N$ modes of a light field. Then the Bell-CHSH (Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt) inequality is presented for the $N$ modes, each of which has a continuous degree of freedom. Following Mermin's argument, it is demonstrated that for $N$-mode parity-entangled GHZ states (in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space) of the light field, the contradictions between quantum mechanics and local realism grow exponentially with $N$, similarly to the usual $N$-spin cases.

id: quant-ph/0103083
title: Decoherence effects of motion-induced radiation
authors: Paulo A. Maia Neto, Diego A.R. Dalvit
comments: 9 pages. To be published in the Proceedings of the Conference on Quantum Optics I, held in Santiago, Chile, August 2000 (Springer-Verlag)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103083
abstract: The radiation pressure coupling with vacuum fluctuations gives rise to energy damping and decoherence of an oscillating particle. Both effects result from the emission of pairs of photons, a quantum effect related to the fluctuations of the Casimir force. We discuss different alternative methods for the computation of the decoherence time scale. We take the example of a spherical perfectly-reflecting particle, and consider the zero and high temperature limits. We also present short general reviews on decoherence and dynamical Casimir effect.

id: quant-ph/0103084
title: Nonlocal variables with product states eigenstates
authors: Berry Groisman, Lev Vaidman
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103084
abstract: An alternative proof for existence of ``quantum nonlocality without entanglement'', i.e. existence of variables with product-state eigenstates which cannot be measured locally, is presented. A simple``nonlocal'' variable for the case of one-way communication is given and the limit for its approximate measurability is found.

id: quant-ph/0103085
title: Darwinism in quantum systems?
authors: A.Iqbal, A.H.Toor
comments: Revised in the light of referee's comments. To appear in Physics Letters A. LaTex, 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters, A 294/5-6 (2002) pp. 261-270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103085
abstract: We investigate the role of quantum mechanical effects in the central stability concept of evolutionary game theory i.e. an Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS). Using two and three-player symmetric quantum games we show how the presence of quantum phenomenon of entanglement can be crucial to decide the course of evolutionary dynamics in a population of interacting individuals.

id: quant-ph/0103086
title: Maximization of capacity and p-norms for some product channels
authors: C. King
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103086
abstract: It is conjectured that the Holevo capacity of a product channel \Omega \otimes \Phi is achieved when product states are used as input. Amosov, Holevo and Werner have also conjectured that the maximal p-norm of a product channel is achieved with product input states. In this paper we establish both of these conjectures in the case that \Omega is arbitrary and \Phi is a CQ or QC channel (as defined by Holevo). We also establish the Amosov, Holevo and Werner conjecture when \Omega is arbitrary and either \Phi is a qubit channel and p=2, or \Phi is a unital qubit channel and p is integer. Our proofs involve a new conjecture for the norm of an output state of the half-noisy channel I \otimes \Phi, when \Phi is a qubit channel. We show that this conjecture in some cases also implies additivity of the Holevo capacity.

id: quant-ph/0103087
title: A new Bell Inequality for Werner states
authors: Xiao-Hua Wu, HongShi Zong, Hou-Rong Pang, Fan Wang
comments: 6 pages, 14 reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103087
abstract: Choosing four entangled stets to form an orthogonal and complete basis for a two-particle system, we argue that a local hidden variable model should give the probability of each entangled state if the two-particle system is described by a mixed state. Under this condition, a new Bell inequality is derived for the Werner states, and a nonlocality proof can be given for nonsequential measurements PACS number: 03.65.Bz

id: quant-ph/0103088
title: Quantum non-demolition measurement of nonlocal variables and its application in quantum authentication
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 286,401 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103088
abstract: Quantun non-demolition (QND) variables are generlized to the nonlocal ones by proposing QND measurement networks of Bell states and multi-partite GHZ states, which means that we can generate and measure them without any destruction. One of its prospective applications in the quantum authentication system of the Quantum Security Automatic Teller Machine (QSATM) which is much more reliable than the classical ones is also presented.

id: quant-ph/0103089
title: Geometrisation of electromagnetic field and topological interpretation of quantum formalism
authors: O.A.Olkhov
comments: 3 pages, LaTex
journal: Thesises of the International Seminar on Physics of Electronic and Atomic Collisions, Klyazma, Moscow region, Russia, 12-16 March, 2001, p.28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103089
abstract: A new approach is proposed for an electromagnetic field geometrisation. We show that interacting Maxwell and Dirac fields can be considered as a single connected space-time 4-manifold. The Dirac spinors appear wihtin such approach as basic fanctions for the manifold fundamental group representation and electric and magnertic fields appear as components of a curvature tensor of the manifold covering space.

id: quant-ph/0103090
title: Fidelity of Single Qubit Maps
authors: M. D. Bowdrey, D. K. L. Oi, A. J. Short, J. A. Jones
comments: RevTex 4, 2 pages, will submit to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103090
abstract: We give a simple way of characterising the average fidelity between a unitary and a general operation on a single qubit which only involves calculating the fidelities for a few pure input states.

id: quant-ph/0103091
title: Bound entangled states with not positive partial transposition exist
authors: Pawel Horodecki
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103091
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by the author due to crucial error in formula (14) which does not satisfy conditions for S(x,y) domain if only d>2.

id: quant-ph/0103092
title: Worlds in the Everett Interpretation
authors: David Wallace
comments: Latex, 27 pages. To appear in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 33 (2002) pp. 637-661
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103092
abstract: This is a discussion of how we can understand the world-view given to us by the Everett interpretation of quantum mechanics, and in particular the role played by the concept of `world'. The view presented is that we are entitled to use `many-worlds' terminology even if the theory does not specify the worlds in the formalism; this is defended by means of an extensive analogy with the concept of an `instant' or moment of time in relativity, with the lack of a preferred foliation of spacetime being compared with the lack of a preferred basis in quantum theory. Implications for identity of worlds over time, and for relativistic quantum mechanics, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103093
title: Is It Possible To Clone Using An Arbitrary Blank State?
authors: Anirban Roy, Aditi Sen, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages latex final version, generalizations made to higher dimension and more copies
journal: Phys. Lett. A 286 (2001) 1-3
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103093
abstract: We show that in a cloning process, whether deterministic inexact or probabilistic exact, one can take an arbitrary blank state while still using a fixed cloning machine.

id: quant-ph/0103094
title: A single-mode quantum transport in serial-structure geometric scatterers
authors: Pavel Exner, Milos Tater, David Vanek
comments: 36 pages, a LaTeX source file with 2 TeX drawings, 3 ps and 3 jpeg figures attached
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42 (2001), 4050-4078
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103094
abstract: We study transport in quantum systems consisting of a finite array of N identical single-channel scatterers. A general expression of the S matrix in terms of the individual-element data obtained recently for potential scattering is rederived in this wider context. It shows in particular how the band spectrum of the infinite periodic system arises in the limit $N\to\infty$. We illustrate the result on two kinds of examples. The first are serial graphs obtained by chaining loops or T-junctions. A detailed discussion is presented for a finite-periodic "comb"; we show how the resonance poles can be computed within the Krein formula approach. Another example concerns geometric scatterers where the individual element consists of a surface with a pair of leads; we show that apart of the resonances coming from the decoupled-surface eigenvalues such scatterers exhibit the high-energy behavior typical for the delta' interaction for the physically interesting couplings.

id: quant-ph/0103095
title: A quantum evaporation effect
authors: D. Boose, F. Bardou
comments: 7 pages + 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 53 (2001) p. 1-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103095
abstract: A small momentum transfer to a particle interacting with a steep potential barrier gives rise to a quantum evaporation effect which increases the transmission appreciably. This effect results from the unexpectedly large population of quantum states with energies above the height of the barrier. Its characteristic properties are studied and an example of physical system in which it may be observed is given.

id: quant-ph/0103096
title: The asymptotic relative entropy of entanglement
authors: K. Audenaert, J. Eisert, E. Jane, M.B. Plenio, S. Virmani, B. De Moor
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Minor changes and stylistic improvements, conclusions and results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 217902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103096
abstract: We present an analytical formula for the asymptotic relative entropy of entanglement for Werner states of arbitrary dimension. We then demonstrate its validity using methods from convex optimization. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which the value of a subadditive entanglement measure has been obtained in the asymptotic limit.

id: quant-ph/0103097
title: Nondistortion Quantum Interrogation using EPR entangled Photons
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Marc J. Feldman, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103097
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for nondistortion quantum interrogation (NQI), defined as an interaction-free measurement which preserves the internal state of the object being detected. In our scheme, two EPR entangled photons are used as the probe and polarization sensitive measurements are performed at the four ports of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. In comparison with the previous single photon scheme, it is shown that the two photon approach has a higher probability of initial state preserving interrogation of an atom prepared in a quantum superposition. In the case that the presence of the atom is not successfully detected, the experiment can be repeated since the initial state of the atom is unperturbed.

id: quant-ph/0103098
title: Quantum Data Hiding
authors: David P. DiVincenzo, Debbie W. Leung, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 19 pages, IEEE style, 8 figures, submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf Theory Vol. 48. No. 3, 580-599 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103098
abstract: We expand on our work on Quantum Data Hiding -- hiding classical data among parties who are restricted to performing only local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC). We review our scheme that hides one bit between two parties using Bell states, and we derive upper and lower bounds on the secrecy of the hiding scheme. We provide an explicit bound showing that multiple bits can be hidden bitwise with our scheme. We give a preparation of the hiding states as an efficient quantum computation that uses at most one ebit of entanglement. A candidate data hiding scheme that does not use entanglement is presented. We show how our scheme for quantum data hiding can be used in a conditionally secure quantum bit commitment scheme.

id: quant-ph/0103099
title: Entangled qutrits violate local realism stronger than qubits - an analytical proof
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, L. C. Kwek, Marek Zukowski, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103099
abstract: In Kaszlikowski [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 85}, 4418 (2000)], it has been shown numerically that the violation of local realism for two maximally entangled $N$-dimensional ($3 \leq N$) quantum objects is stronger than for two maximally entangled qubits and grows with $N$. In this paper we present the analytical proof of this fact for N=3.

id: quant-ph/0103100
title: Experiment can decide between standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics
authors: M. Golshani, O. Akhavan
comments: 11 pages, 3 figure, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103100
abstract: In this investigation, we have considered two thought experiments to make a comparison between predictions of the standard and the Bohmian quantum mechanics. Concerning this, a two-particle system has been studied at two various situations of the entangled and the unentangled states. In the first experiment, the two theories can predict different results at the individual level, while their statistical results are the same. In the other experiment, not only they are in disagreement at the individual level, but their equivalence at the statistical level also breaks down, if one uses selective detection. Furthermore, we discuss about some objections that can be raised against the results of the two suggested experiments.

id: quant-ph/0103101
title: Bohmian prediction about a two double-slit experiment and its disagreement with standard quantum mechanics
authors: M. Golshani, O. Akhavan
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A 34 (2001) 5259-5268
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103101
abstract: The significance of proposals that can predict different results for standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics have been the subject of many discussions over the years. Here, we suggest a particular experiment (a two double-slit experiment) and a special detection process, that we call selective detection, to distinguish between the two theories. Using our suggested experiment, it is shown that the two theories predict different observable results at the individual level for a geometrically symmetric arrangement. However, their predictions are the same at the ensemble level. On the other hand, we have shown that at the statistical level, if we use our selective detection, then either the predictions of the two theories differ or where standard quantum mechanics is silent or vague, Bohmian quantum mechanics makes explicit predictions.

id: quant-ph/0103102
title: Conditions for Nondistortion Interrogation of Quantum System
authors: Zheng-Wei Zhou, Xingxiang Zhou, Marc J. Feldman, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, Revtex, 1 figures, Presentation improved, corollary 1 added. To appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Letts. 58(3), 328, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103102
abstract: Under some physical considerations, we present a universal formulation to study the possibility of localizing a quantum object in a given region without disturbing its unknown internal state. When the interaction between the object and probe wave function takes place only once, we prove the necessary and sufficient condition that the object's presence can be detected in an initial state preserving way. Meanwhile, a conditioned optimal interrogation probability is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0103103
title: Michelson interferometer operating at effects of first order with respect to v/c
authors: V.V.Demjanov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103103
abstract: In the first version of this paper (arXiv: 1003.2899v1, 15.03.2010) there is described first, traditional method of measuring the non-zero shift of interference fringe in the Michelson interferometer, operating on the effects of second order with respect to v/c, and are revealed hidden causes of the failure to measure the shift of interference fringe in the period from 1881 till 1960. It is shown that at the latitude of Obninsk within a 24-hour observation period the horizontal projection of aether wind velocity varies from 140 km/s to 480 km/s. The second version of this paper (arXiv: 1003.2899v2, 15.04.2010) is supplemented with a second method of finding the velocity of the aether wind -- through measuring the largest seasonal decrease in the ratio of the summer shift of the interference fringe to the winter one (equaled ~12%). It gave the same interval of values of the projections of the aether wind velocity as the first method. More than hundred years there persists a belief that Michelson-type interferometer can not be adjusted such as to detect effects of the first order with respect to v/c. Below I show that it is possible, and more successfully than on the interferometer of the second order. In contrast to the traditional approach, in the interferometer of the first order the light after splitting on a semi-transparent plate propagates in both arms to the reflecting mirrors in one optical medium, and returns after reflection from the mirrors through another optical medium. The shift of the interference fringe was found to be proportional to the difference of dielectric permittivities of these media. The horizontal projection of the Earth's velocity relative to luminiferous aether measured by the first order interferometer agrees with that found by the first two methods.

id: quant-ph/0103104
title: Reply to Comment
authors: Ping-Xing Chen, Lin-Mei Liang, Cheng-Zu Li, Ming-Qiu Huang
comments: RevTeX, 1 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103104
abstract: In the comment(quant-ph/0103003) Eggeling,Vollbrecht and Wolf suspect our method in quant-ph/0102133 is not practical. Here we explain our result and method and show that our example can tell one how to judge a separable state, and so our method is practical, at least for many mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0103105
title: Implications of Teleportation for Nonlocality
authors: Jonathan Barrett
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Title changed to accord with Phys. Rev. A version. A note and an extra reference have been added. Journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 042305 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103105
abstract: Adopting an approach similar to that of Zukowski [Phys. Rev. A 62, 032101 (2000)], we investigate connections between teleportation and nonlocality. We derive a Bell-type inequality pertaining to the teleportation scenario and show that it is violated in the case of teleportation using a perfect singlet. We also investigate teleportation using `Werner states' of the form x P + (1-x) I/4, where P is the projector corresponding to a singlet state and I is the identity. We find that our inequality is violated, implying nonlocality, if x > 1/sqrt(2). In addition, we extend Werner's local hidden variable model to simulation of teleportation with the x = 1/2 Werner state. Thus teleportation using this state does not involve nonlocality even though the fidelity achieved is 3/4 which is greater than the `classical limit' of 2/3. Finally, we comment on a result of Gisin's and offer some philosophical remarks on teleportation and nonlocality generally.

id: quant-ph/0103106
title: Quantum nondemolition measurement of a light field component by a feedback compensated beam splitter
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Takayoshi Kobayashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 6 pages, including one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103106
abstract: In conventional quantum nondemolition measurements, the interaction between signal and probe preserves the measured variable. Alternatively, it is possible to restore the original value of the variable by feedback. In this paper, we describe a quantum nondemolition measurement of a quadrature component of the light field using a feedback compensated beam splitter. The noise induced by the vacuum port of the beam splitter is compensated by a linear feedback resulting in an effective amplification of the observed variable. This amplification is then be reversed by optical parametric amplification to restore the original value of the field component.

id: quant-ph/0103107
title: Functional approach to quantum decoherence and the classical final limit II: the pointer basis and the quantum measurements
authors: M. Castagnino, R. Laura, R. Id Betan
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103107
abstract: A quantum system with discrete and continuos evolution spectrum is studied. A final pointer basis is found, that can be defined in a presised mathematical way. This result is use to explain the quantum measurement in the system.

id: quant-ph/0103108
title: The physics of forgetting: Landauer's erasure principle and information theory
authors: M.B. Plenio, V. Vitelli
comments: 36 pages, 13 figures, Very basic introductory article for Contemporary Physics
journal: Contemporary Physics 42, 25 - 60 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103108
abstract: This article discusses the concept of information and its intimate relationship with physics. After an introduction of all the necessary quantum mechanical and information theoretical concepts we analyze Landauer's principle that states that the erasure of information is inevitably accompanied by the generation of heat. We employ this principle to rederive a number of results in classical and quantum information theory whose rigorous mathematical derivations are difficult. This demonstrates the usefulness of Landauer's principle and provides an introduction to the physical theory of information.

id: quant-ph/0103109
title: Equivalent classes of closed three-level systems
authors: M.B. Plenio
comments: Four pages, four figures
journal: Physical Review A 62, 15802 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103109
abstract: In recent years a significant amount of research in quantum optics has been devoted to the analysis of atomic three-level systems and for many physical quantities the same effects have been predicted for different configurations. These configurations can be split into essentially two classes. One for which the system contains a metastable state and another where the system has two close-lying levels and coherence effects become important. We demonstrate when and why for a wide range of parameters these two classes are in fact equivalent for many important physical quantities. A unified picture underlying a large body of work on these categories of atomic three-level systems is presented and applied to some examples.

id: quant-ph/0103110
title: On the nature of spin, inertia and gravity of a moving canonical particle
authors: Volodymyr Krasnoholovets
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures (*.eps files), LaTeX 2e
journal: Indian Journal of Theoretical Physics, vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 97-132 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103110
abstract: It is suggested that a moving canonical particle interacts with a vacuum regarded as a "soft" cellular space. The interaction results into the emergence of elementary excitations of space - inertons - surrounding the particle. It is assumed that such a motion leads not only to the spatial oscillation of the particle along a path but to the oscillation of the particle centre-of-mass as well. This phenomenon culminating in the anisotropic pulsation of the particle is associated with the notion of spin. The particle-space interaction is treated as the origin of the matter waves, which are identified with the particle inertia and inertons surrounding the moving particle are considered as carriers of its inert properties. Inertons are also identified with real carriers of the gravitational interaction and the range of the particle gravitational potential is evaluated by the inerton cloud amplitude $\Lambda=\lambda c/v$, where $\lambda$ is the de Broglie wavelength, $c$ and $v$ are the velocity of light and the particle respectively. The nature of the phase transition that occurs in a quantum system when one should pass from the description based on the Schroedinger formalism to that of resting on the Dirac one is explained in detail.

id: quant-ph/0103111
title: Optimal Conclusive Discrimination of Two Non-orthogonal Pure Product Multipartite States Locally
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Dong Yang
comments: revtex, 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103111
abstract: We consider one copy of a quantum system prepared in one of two non-orthogonal pure product states of multipartite distributed among separated parties. We show that there exist protocols which obtain optimal probability in the sense of conclusive discrimination by means of local operations and classical communications(LOCC) as good as by global operations. Also, we show a protocol which minimezes the average number of local operations. Our result implies that two product pure multipartite states might not have the non-local property though more than two can have.

id: quant-ph/0103112
title: Preparation of Schr?dinger cat states with cold ions beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: Mang Feng
comments: RevTex 9 pages, no figures and tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103112
abstract: A scheme for preparing Schr\"odinger cat (SC) states is proposed beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit in a Raman-$\Lambda$-type configuration. It is shown that SC states can be obtained more efficiently with our scheme than with the former ones.

id: quant-ph/0103113
title: Maximizing the entanglement of two mixed qubits
authors: W. J. Munro, D. F. V. James, A. G. White, P. G. Kwiat
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 64, 030302 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103113
abstract: Two-qubit states occupy a large and relatively unexplored Hilbert space. Such states can be succinctly characterized by their degree of entanglement and purity. In this letter we investigate entangled mixed states and present a class of states that have the maximum amount of entanglement for a given linear entropy.

id: quant-ph/0103114
title: Time-like flows of energy-momentum and particle trajectories for the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: George Horton, Chris Dewdney, Alexei Nesteruk
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: J.Phys.A:Math.Gen 33 (2000) 7337-7352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103114
abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation is interpreted in the de Broglie-Bohm manner as a single-particle relativistic quantum mechanical equation that defines unique time-like particle trajectories. The particle trajectories are determined by the conserved flow of the intrinsic energy density which can be derived from the specification of the Klein-Gordon energy-momentum tensor in an Einstein-Riemann space. The approach is illustrated by application to the simple single-particle phenomena associated with square potentials.

id: quant-ph/0103115
title: Solvable analogue of the imaginary cubic oscillator
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103115
abstract: We prove that the purely imaginary square well generates an infinite number of bound states with real energies. In the strong-coupling limit, our exact PT symmetric solutions coincide, utterly unexpectedly, with their textbook, well known Hermitian predecessors.

id: quant-ph/0103116
title: Semiconductor quantum computer design with 100 nm separation of nuclear-spin qubits
authors: Vladimir Privman, Dima Mozyrsky
comments: 3 pages in PDF
journal: Proc. Int. Conf. Quantum Inf. (ICQI 2001), article PB19, 3 pages, eds. N.P. Bigelow, J.H. Eberly, C.R. Stroud, Jr. and I.A. Walmsley (Opt. Soc. Amer., Washington, 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103116
abstract: We combine elements of the 1998 quantum computing proposals by Privman, Vagner and Kventsel, and by Kane, with the new idea of nuclear-spin qubit interactions mediated indirectly via the bound outer electrons of impurity atoms whose nuclear spins 1/2 are the qubits. These electrons, in turn, interact via the two-dimensional electron gas in the quantum Hall effect regime. The resulting quantum computing scheme retains all the gate-control and measurement aspects of the proposal by Kane, but allows qubit spacing at distances of order 100 nm, attainable with the present-day semiconductor-heterostructure device technologies.

id: quant-ph/0103117
title: Quantum control of population inversion in the presence of spontaneous emission
authors: S.G. Schirmer, Andrew D. Greentree, A.I. Solomon
comments: 2 pages latex, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103117
abstract: The detrimental effect of spontaneous emission on the performance of control schemes designed to achieve population inversion between the ground state and a highly excited atomic state are studied using computer simulations.

id: quant-ph/0103118
title: Robust quantum memory via quantum control
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, S.G. Schirmer, A.I. Solomon
comments: 2 pages latex, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103118
abstract: A general scheme for building a quantum memory by transferring quantum information to an essentially decoherence-free memory transition using quantum control is presented and illustrated by computer simulations.

id: quant-ph/0103119
title: Classical programmability is enough for quantum circuits universality in approximate sense
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, Extended abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103119
abstract: It was shown by M.A. Nielsen and I.L. Chuang 1997, that it is impossible to build strictly universal programmable quantum gate array, that could perform any unitary operation precisely and it was suggested to use probabilistic gate arrays instead. In present work is shown, that if to use more physical and weak condition of universality (suggested already in earliest work by D.Deutsch 1985) and to talk about simulation with arbitrary, but finite precision, then it is possible to build universal programmable gate array. But now the same no-go theorem by Nielsen and Chuang will have new interesting consequence --- controlling programs for the gate arrays can be considered as pure classical. More detailed design of such deterministic quantum gate arrays universal ``in approximate sense'' is considered in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0103120
title: Low energy atomic collision with dipole interactions
authors: B. Deb, L. You
comments: 27 pages, 17 figures, an inadvertent typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103120
abstract: We apply quantum defect theory to study low energy ground state atomic collisions including aligned dipole interactions such as those induced by an electric field. Our results show that coupled even ($l$) relative orbital angular momentum partial wave channels exhibit shape resonance structures while odd ($l$) channels do not. We analyze and interpret these resonances within the framework of multichannel quantum defect theory (MQDT).

id: quant-ph/0103121
title: On the Measurement of Qubits
authors: Daniel F. V. James, Paul G. Kwiat, William J. Munro, Andrew G. White
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: Physical Review A 64, 052312 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103121
abstract: We describe in detail the theory underpinning the measurement of density matrices of a pair of quantum two-level systems (``qubits''). Our particular emphasis is on qubits realized by the two polarization degrees of freedom of a pair of entangled photons generated in a down-conversion experiment; however the discussion applies in general, regardless of the actual physical realization. Two techniques are discussed, namely a tomographic reconstruction (in which the density matrix is linearly related to a set of measured quantities) and a maximum likelihood technique which requires numerical optimization (but has the advantage of producing density matrices which are always non-negative definite). In addition a detailed error analysis is presented, allowing errors in quantities derived from the density matrix, such as the entropy or entanglement of formation, to be estimated. Examples based on down-conversion experiments are used to illustrate our results.

id: quant-ph/0103122
title: Quantum authentication of classical messages
authors: Marcos Curty, David J. Santos
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A64,062309(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103122
abstract: Although key distribution is arguably the most studied context on which to apply quantum cryptographic techniques, message authentication, i.e., certifying the identity of the message originator and the integrity of the message sent, can also benefit from the use of quantum resources. Classically, message authentication can be performed by techniques based on hash functions. However, the security of the resulting protocols depends on the selection of appropriate hash functions, and on the use of long authentication keys. In this paper we propose a quantum authentication procedure that, making use of just one qubit as the authentication key, allows the authentication of binary classical messages in a secure manner.

id: quant-ph/0103123
title: Quantum message authentication codes
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: Withdrawn due to error in proof of Lemma 1, and collaborative work which renders it obsolete
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103123
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn because of an error in the proof of Lemma 1. Without Lemma 1, the result of the main theorem (with the same proof, but omitting the use of Lemma 1 to extend things to general attacks) only holds for attacks in which the attacker applies a tensor product of Pauli matrices (for qubits) or generalized Pauli matrices. The resulting theorem is still relevant for quantum message authentication, but the very strong result claimed in earlier versions of this paper does not hold. These matters will be addressed further in joint work with Claude Crepeau, Daniel Gottesman, Adam Smith, and Alain Tapp. Thanks to them and to Debbie Leung for spotting the error.

id: quant-ph/0103124
title: A Dirac-type equation for spacelike neutrinos
authors: Tsao Chang
comments: Latex 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103124
abstract: Based on experimental evidences supporting the hypothesis that neutrinos might be spacelike particles, a new Dirac-type equation is proposed and a spin-1/2 spacelike quantum theory is developed. The new Dirac-type equation provides a solution for the puzzle of negative mass-square of neutrinos. This equation can be written in two spinor equations coupled together via nonzero mass while respecting maximum parity violation, and it reduces to one Weyl equation in the massless limit. Some peculiar features of spacelike neutrino are discussed in this theoretical framework.

id: quant-ph/0103125
title: Polarization instabilities in a two-photon laser
authors: Olivier Pfister, William J. Brown, Michael D. Stenner, Daniel J. Gauthier
comments: Accepted by Physical Review Letters. REVTeX 4 pages, 4 EPS figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4512 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103125
abstract: We describe the operating characteristics of a new type of quantum oscillator that is based on a two-photon stimulated emission process. This two-photon laser consists of spin-polarized and laser-driven $^{39}$K atoms placed in a high-finesse transverse-mode-degenerate optical resonator, and produces a beam with a power of $\sim $0.2 $\mu $W at a wavelength of 770 nm. We observe complex dynamical instabilities of the state of polarization of the two-photon laser, which are made possible by the atomic Zeeman degeneracy. We conjecture that the laser could emit polarization-entangled twin beams if this degeneracy is lifted.

id: quant-ph/0103126
title: On the Incompatibility of Standard Quantum Mechanics and the de Broglie-Bohm Theory
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: A few technical changes incorporated in section V without any change in conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103126
abstract: It is shown that the de Broglie-Bohm quantum theory of multi-particle systems is incompatible with the standard quantum theory of such systems unless the former is ergodic. A realistic experiment is suggested to distinguish between the two theories.

id: quant-ph/0103127
title: Universal quantum processors with arbitrary radix n
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 3 pages, LaTeX, extended abstract, c-ref: ICQI
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103127
abstract: Here is discussed the Hamiltonian approach to construction of deterministic universal (in approximate sense) programmable quantum circuits with qubits or any other quantum systems with dimension of Hilbert space is $n \ge 2$.

id: quant-ph/0103128
title: Compressibility of Mixed-State Signals
authors: Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103128
abstract: We present a formula that determines the optimal number of qubits per message that allows asymptotically faithful compression of the quantum information carried by an ensemble of mixed states. The set of mixed states determines a decomposition of the Hilbert space into the redundant part and the irreducible part. After removing the redundancy, the optimal compression rate is shown to be given by the von Neumann entropy of the reduced ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0103129
title: Entropy production and wave packet dynamics in the Fock space of closed chaotic many-body systems
authors: V.V.Flambaum, F.M.Izrailev
comments: RevTex, 14 pages including 12 eps-figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E64:036220,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103129
abstract: Highly excited many-particle states in quantum systems such as nuclei, atoms, quantum dots, spin systems, quantum computers etc., can be considered as ``chaotic'' superpositions of mean-field basis states (Slater determinants, products of spin or qubit states). This is due to a very high level density of many-body states that are easily mixed by a residual interaction between particles (quasi-particles). For such systems, we have derived simple analytical expressions for the time dependence of energy width of wave packets, as well as for the entropy, number of principal basis components and inverse participation ratio, and tested them in numerical experiments. It is shown that the energy width $\Delta (t)$ increases linearly and very quickly saturates. The entropy of a system increases quadratically, $S(t) \sim t^2$ at small times, and after, can grow linearly, $S(t) \sim t$, before the saturation. Correspondingly, the number of principal components determined by the entropy, $N_{pc} \sim exp{(S(t))}$, or by the inverse participation ratio, increases exponentially fast before the saturation. These results are explained in terms of a cascade model which describes the flow of excitation in the Fock space of basis components. Finally, a striking phenomenon of damped oscillations in the Fock space at the transition to an equilibrium is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103130
title: Spatial evolution of short pulses under coherent population trapping
authors: V.G. Arkhipkin, I.V. Timofeev
comments: 16 pages revtex style, 7 EPS figures, accepted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 053811 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103130
abstract: Spatial and temporal evolution is studied of two powerful short laser pulses having different wavelengths and interacting with a dense three-level Lambda-type optical medium under coherent population trapping. A general case of unequal oscillator strengths of the transitions is considered. Durations of the probe pulse and the coupling pulse $T_{1,2}$ ($T_2>T_1$) are assumed to be shorter than any of the relevant atomic relaxation times. We propose analytical and numerical solutions of a self-consistent set of coupled Schr\"{o}dinger equations and reduced wave equations in the adiabatic limit with the account of the first non-adiabatic correction. The adiabaticity criterion is also discussed with the account of the pulse propagation. The dynamics of propagation is found to be strongly dependent on the ratio of the transition oscillator strengths. It is shown that envelopes of the pulses slightly change throughout the medium length at the initial stage of propagation. This distance can be large compared to the one-photon resonant absorption length. Eventually, the probe pulse is completely reemitted into the coupling pulse during propagation. The effect of localization of the atomic coherence has been observed similar to the one predicted by Fleischhauer and Lukin (PRL, {\bf 84}, 5094 (2000).

id: quant-ph/0103131
title: A classification of incomparable states
authors: Spmshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Vwani P. Roychowdhury, Ujjwal Sen
comments: Latex, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052315 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103131
abstract: Let (\{| \psi> ,| \phi>}) be an incomparable pair of states ((| \psi \nleftrightarrow | \phi>)), \emph, i.e., (| \psi>) and (| \phi>) cannot be transformed to each other with probability one by local transformations and classical communication (LOCC). We show that incomparable states can be multiple-copy transformable, \emph, i.e., there can exist a \emph{k}, such that (| \psi> ^{\otimes k+1}\to | \phi> ^{\otimes k+1}), i.e., (k+1) copies of (| \psi>) can be transformed to (k+1) copies of (| \phi>) with probability one by LOCC but (| \psi> ^{\otimes n}\nleftrightarrow | \phi> ^{\otimes n} \forall n\leq k). We call such states \emph{k}-copy LOCC incomparable. We provide a necessary condition for a given pair of states to be \emph{k}-copy LOCC incomparable for some \emph{k}. We also show that there exist states that are neither \emph{k}-copy LOCC incomparable for any \emph{k} nor catalyzable even with multiple copies. We call such states strongly incomparable. We give a sufficient condition for strong incomparability. We demonstrate that the optimal probability of a conclusive transformation involving many copies, (p_{max}(| \psi> ^{\otimes m}\to | \phi> ^{\otimes m})) can decrease exponentially with the number of source states (m), even if the source state has \emph{more} entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0103132
title: A general mathematical structure for the time-reversal operator
authors: Mario Alberto Castagnino, Adolfo Ramon Ordoniez, Daniela Beatriz Emmanuele
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103132
abstract: The aim of this work is the mathematical analysis of the physical time-reversal operator and its definition as a geometrical structure\QTR{bf}{, }in such a way that it could be generalized to the purely mathematical realm. Rigorously, only having such a ``time-reversal structure'' it can be decided whether a dynamical system is time-symmetric or not.\QTR{it}{\}The ``time-reversal structures'' of several important physical and mathematical examples are presented, showing that there are some mathematical categories whose objects are the (classical or abstract) ``time-reversal systems'' and whose morphisms generalize the Wigner transformation.

id: quant-ph/0103133
title: The survival of quantum coherence in deformed states superposition
authors: Stefano Mancini, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 5 pages, ReVTeX file, 3 eps figures, to appear in Europhys. Lett
journal: Europhys. Lett. 54, 586 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103133
abstract: We study the dissipative dynamics of deformed coherent states superposition. We find that such kind of superposition can be more robust against decoherence than the usual Schrodinger cat states.

id: quant-ph/0103134
title: Comment on ``Experimental Separation of Geometric and Dynamical Phases Using Neutron Interferometry"
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: Latex 6 pages;1 postscript figure; originally submitted to Phys.Rev.Lett.; at present forms part of a pending proposal for a neutron interferometer experiment; note added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103134
abstract: We analyse a recently reported neutron interference experiment to measure a geometric phase and attempt to bring out the inadequacy of the ``phase modulo 2\pi" approach to the geometric phase. A modified neutron interferometer experiment to observe 2n\pi phase changes of topological origin resulting from closed circuits around singularities in the parameter space of the experiment is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0103135
title: Orthomodular Lattices and a Quantum Algebra
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 21 pages, AMSLaTeX, this http URL, minor misprints corrected and a note on incorrectnes of Dalla Chiara and Giuntini's paper this http URL added
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 40, 1387-1410 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103135
abstract: We show that one can formulate an algebra with lattice ordering so as to contain one quantum and five classical operations as opposed to the standard formulation of the Hilbert space subspace algebra. The standard orthomodular lattice is embeddable into the algebra. To obtain this result we devised algorithms and computer programs for obtaining expressions of all quantum and classical operations within an orthomodular lattice in terms of each other, many of which are presented in the paper. For quantum disjunction and conjunction we prove their associativity in an orthomodular lattice for any triple in which one of the elements commutes with the other two and their distributivity for any triple in which a particular one of the elements commutes with the other two. We also prove that the distributivity of symmetric identity holds in Hilbert space, although it remains an open problem whether it holds in all orthomodular lattices, as it does not fail in any of over 50 million Greechie diagrams we tested.

id: quant-ph/0103136
title: The Covariant Stark Effect
authors: M.C. Land, L.P. Howitz
comments: Latex, 24 pages
journal: Found.Phys.31:967-991,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103136
abstract: This paper examines the Stark effect, as a first order perturbation of manifestly covariant hydrogen-like bound states. These bound states are solutions to a relativistic Schr\"odinger equation with invariant evolution parameter, and represent mass eigenstates whose eigenvalues correspond to the well-known energy spectrum of the non-relativistic theory. In analogy to the nonrelativistic case, the off-diagonal perturbation leads to a lifting of the degeneracy in the mass spectrum. In the covariant case, not only do the spectral lines split, but they acquire an imaginary part which is lnear in the applied electric field, thus revealing induced bound state decay in first order perturbation theory. This imaginary part results from the coupling of the external field to the non-compact boost generator. In order to recover the conventional first order Stark splitting, we must include a scalar potential term. This term may be understood as a fifth gauge potential, which compensates for dependence of gauge transformations on the invariant evolution parameter.

id: quant-ph/0103137
title: Separability Properties of Three-mode Gaussian States
authors: Geza Giedke, Barbara Kraus, Maciej Lewenstein, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures (.eps); results extended to 1x1xn modes; references updated; version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 052303 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103137
abstract: We derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of tripartite three mode Gaussian states, that is easy to check for any such state. We give a classification of the separability properties of those systems and show how to determine for any state to which class it belongs. We show that there exist genuinely tripartite bound entangled states and point out how to construct and prepare such states.

id: quant-ph/0103138
title: Squeezed light from spin squeezed atoms
authors: U. V. Poulsen, K. Molmer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revtex4 beta 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103138
abstract: We propose to produce pulses of strongly squeezed light by Raman scattering of a strong laser pulse on a spin squeezed atomic sample. We prove that the emission is restricted to a single field mode which perfectly inherits the quantum correlations of the atomic system.

id: quant-ph/0103139
title: Just How Final are Today's Quantum Structures?
authors: Paul Busch
comments: 3 pages, tcilatex
journal: Soft Computing 5 (2001) 137-138
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103139
abstract: I present a selection of conceptual and mathematical problems in the foundations of modern physics as they derive from the title question. Contribution to a panel session, "Springer Forum: Quantum Structures -- Physical, Mathematical and Epistemological Problems", held at the Biannual Symposium of the International Quantum Structures Association, Liptovsky Jan, September 1998. To appear in journal: Soft Computing (2001).

id: quant-ph/0103140
title: Light-shift-induced quantum gates for ions in thermal motion
authors: Daniel Jonathan, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figs
journal: Physical Review Letters 87, 127901 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103140
abstract: An effective interaction between trapped ions in thermal motion can be generated by illuminating them simultaneously with a single laser resonant with the ionic carrier frequency. The ac Stark-shift induces simultaneous `virtual' two-phonon transitions via several motional modes. Within a certain laser intensity range these transitions can interfere constructively, resulting in a relatively fast, heating-resistant two-qubit logic gate.

id: quant-ph/0103141
title: Scaling properties of cavity-enhanced atom cooling
authors: Peter Horak, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 033422 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103141
abstract: We extend an earlier semiclassical model to describe the dissipative motion of N atoms coupled to M modes inside a coherently driven high-finesse cavity. The description includes momentum diffusion via spontaneous emission and cavity decay. Simple analytical formulas for the steady-state temperature and the cooling time for a single atom are derived and show surprisingly good agreement with direct stochastic simulations of the semiclassical equations for N atoms with properly scaled parameters. A thorough comparison with standard free-space Doppler cooling is performed and yields a lower temperature and a cooling time enhancement by a factor of M times the square of the ratio of the atom-field coupling constant to the cavity decay rate. Finally it is shown that laser cooling with negligible spontaneous emission should indeed be possible, especially for relatively light particles in a strongly coupled field configuration.

id: quant-ph/0103142
title: Inseparability criteria for demonstration of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen gedanken experiment
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 4 pages, minor change to wording
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103142
abstract: It is shown that a criterion used to demonstrate realization of the 1935 Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) gedanken experiment is sufficient to demonstrate quantum entanglement. A further set of measurable criteria sufficient to demonstrate EPR gedanken experiment is proposed, these being the set of criteria sufficient to demonstrate entanglement, by way of a measured violation of a necessary condition of separability. In this way, provided the spatial separation of systems is sufficient to ensure EPR's locality hypothesis, it is shown how a measured demonstration of entanglement will, at least, be equivalent to a demonstration of the EPR gedanken experiment. Using hidden variables it is explained how such demonstrations are a direct manifestation of the inconsistency of local realism with quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0103143
title: Tachyons, Quanta, and Chaos
authors: Mark P Davidson
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures revised to improve pdf presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103143
abstract: It is shown using numerical simulation that classical charged tachyons have several features normally thought to be unique to quantum mechanics. Spin-like self-orbiting helical motions are shown to exist at discrete values for the velocity of the tachyon in Feynman-Wheeler electrodynamics and in normal causal electrodynamics more complex closed orbits also appear to exist. Tunneling behavior of the classical tachyon is observed at classical turning points depending on the angle of incidence. The equations of motion appear to be chaotic and effectively indeterministic when the tachyon crosses its own past light cone. It is argued that self-interacting tachyons moving in a tight helix would behave causally, and that they could be a basis for a hidden variable description of quantum mechanics. A procedure is proposed which could determine the fine structure constant.

id: quant-ph/0103144
title: Time of occurrence observable in quantum mechanics
authors: Romeo Brunetti, Klaus Fredenhagen
comments: 3 pages. published version. change of the title
journal: Physical Review A 66, 044101 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103144
abstract: We propose a general construction of an observable measuring the time of occurence of an effect in quantum theory. Time delay in potential scattering is computed as a straightforward application.

id: quant-ph/0103145
title: Performance of Photon-Pair Quantum Key Distribution Systems
authors: Z. Walton, A. V. Sergienko, M. Atature, B. E. A. Saleh, M. C. Teich
comments: 
journal: J. Mod.Opt., vol.48, no.14, pp 2055-2063, 2001.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103145
abstract: We analyze the quantitative improvement in performance provided by a novel quantum key distribution (QKD) system that employs a correlated photon source (CPS) and a photon-number resolving detector (PNR). Our calculations suggest that given current technology, the CPR implementation offers an improvement of several orders of magnitude in secure bit rate over previously described implementations.

id: quant-ph/0103146
title: Ipso-information-transfer
authors: John V. Corbett, Dipankar Home
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103146
abstract: A tripartite system with entangled non-orthogonal states is used to transfer retrievable or usable information without requiring an external channel, ipso-information-transfer (IIT). The non-Schmidt decomposable entanglement couples two independent interactions through which the information is transferred between a pair of non-interacting components of the system. We outline a dynamical model of IIT using localised particles. Implications for quantum nonlocality are raised.

id: quant-ph/0103147
title: Requirement of optical coherence for continuous-variable quantum teleportation
authors: Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders
comments: One figure in eps format
journal: Physical Review Letters 87, 077903 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103147
abstract: We show that the sender (Alice) and the receiver (Bob) each require coherent devices in order to achieve unconditional continuous variable quantum teleportation (CVQT), and this requirement cannot be achieved with conventional laser sources, even in principle. The appearance of successful CVQT in recent experiments is due to interpreting the measurement record fallaciously in terms of one preferred ensemble (or decomposition) of the correct density matrix describing the state. Our analysis is unrelated to technical problems such as laser phase drift or finite squeezing bandwidth.

id: quant-ph/0103148
title: Resonance absolute quantum reflection at selected energies
authors: V. M. Chabanov, B. N. Zakhariev
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103148
abstract: The possibility of the resonance reflection (100 % at maximum) is revealed. The corresponding exactly solvable models with the controllable numbers of resonances, their positions and widths are presented.

id: quant-ph/0103149
title: Transmission of a Cartesian Frame by a Quantum System
authors: Asher Peres, Petra F. Scudo
comments: corrected figure, discussion of chirality and finite POVMs
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 167901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103149
abstract: A single quantum system, such as a hydrogen atom, can transmit a Cartesian coordinate frame (three axes). For this it has to be prepared in a superposition of states belonging to different irreducible representations of the rotation group. The algorithm for decoding such a state is presented, and the fidelity of transmission is evaluated.

id: quant-ph/0103150
title: The zero energy quantum informtaiton processing
authors: Miroljub Dugic
comments: repalaced with the new version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103150
abstract: In contradistinction with some plausible statements of the information theory, we point out the possibility of the zero energy quantum information processing. Particularly, we investigate the rate of the entanglement formation in the operation of the quantum "oracles" employing the "quantum parallelism", and we obtain that the relative maximum of the rate of the operation distinguishes the zero average energy of interaction in the composite system "input register + output register". This result is reducible to neither of the previously obtained bounds, and therefore represents a new bound for the nonorthogonal state transformations in the quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0103151
title: Jump time and passage time: the duration of a quantum transition
authors: L. S. Schulman
comments: To appear in: Time in Quantum Mechanics, edited by J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato, and I. L. Egusquiza. Springer-Verlag
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103151
abstract: Under unitary evolution, systems move gradually from state to state. An unstable atom has amplitude in its original state after many lifetimes ($\tau_L$). But in the laboratory, transitions seem to go instantaneously, as suggested by the term "quantum jump." The problem studied here is whether the "jump" can be assigned a duration, in theory and in experiment. Two characteristic times are defined, jump time ($\tau_J$) and passage time ($\tau_P$). Both use Zeno time, $\tau_Z$, defined in terms of $H$ and its initial state as $\tau_Z \equiv \hbar/\sqrt{<\psi| (H-E_\psi)^2 |\psi>}$, with $E_\psi \equiv <\psi|H|\psi>$. $\tau_J$ is defined in terms of the time needed to slow (\`a la the quantum Zeno effect) the decay: $\tau_J \equiv \tau_Z^2/\tau_L$. It appears in several contexts. It is related to tunneling time in barrier penetration. Its inverse is the bandwidth of the Hamiltonian, in a time-energy uncertainty principle. $\tau_J$ is also an indicator of the duration of the quadratic decay regime in both experiment and in numerical calculations (cf. Fig.~2 of PRA 57,1509 (1998).) The passage time, $\tau_P$, arises from unitary evolution sans interpretation. It is based on a bound of Fleming (Nuov. Cim. 16 A, 232 (1973)): for any $H$ and $\psi$ a system cannot evolve to a state orthogonal to $\psi$ for $t< \tau_P \equiv \pi \tau_Z/2$. By including apparatus in $H$, $\tau_P$ limits the observation of decay according to the quantum measurement ideas proposed in "Time's Arrows and Quantum Measurement," Cambridge U. Press, 1997, thereby allowing an experimental test of these ideas.

id: quant-ph/0103152
title: Giant non-linearities accompanying electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Guang-Hong Chen, Yong-Shi Wu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103152
abstract: We develop a fully quantum treatment of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a vapor of three-level $\Lambda$-type atoms. Both the probe and coupling lasers with arbitrary intensities are quantized, and treated on the same footing. In addition to reproducing known results on ultraslow pulse propagation at the lowest order in the ratio of their Rabi frequencies, our treatment uncovers that the atomic medium with EIT exhibits giant Kerr as well as higher order non-linearities. Enhancement of many orders of magnitude is predicted for higher-order refractive-index coefficients.

id: quant-ph/0103153
title: Self-adjoint extensions of operators and the teaching of quantum mechanics
authors: Guy Bonneau, Jacques Faraut, Galliano Valent
comments: 25 pages, Latex file, extended version of Am. J. Phys. 69 (2001) 322
journal: Am.J.Phys. 69 (2001) 322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103153
abstract: For the example of the infinitely deep well potential, we point out some paradoxes which are solved by a careful analysis of what is a truly self-adjoint operator. We then describe the self-adjoint extensions and their spectra for the momentum and the Hamiltonian operators in different physical situations. Some consequences are worked out, which could lead to experimental checks.

id: quant-ph/0103154
title: Quantum Theory Cannot Forbid Superluminal Signaling
authors: Li Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103154
abstract: This note analyzed the angle-distribution of the probabilities of two-photon states come out of a single-photon's stimulated emission amplification, show that one can exploit EPR photon pairs combined with stimulated emission to realize superluminal signaling.

id: quant-ph/0103155
title: Monotones and invariants for multi-particle quantum states
authors: H. Barnum, N. Linden
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103155
abstract: We introduce new entanglement monotones which generalize, to the case of many parties, those which give rise to the majorization-based partial ordering of bipartite states' entanglement. We give some examples of restrictions they impose on deterministic and probabilistic conversion between multipartite states via local actions and classical communication. These include restrictions which do not follow from any bipartite considerations. We derive supermultiplicativity relations between each state's monotones and the monotones for collective processing when the parties share several states. We also investigate polynomial invariants under local unitary transformations, and show that a large class of these are invariant under collective unitary processing and also multiplicative, putting restrictions, for example, on the exact conversion of multiple copies of one state to multiple copies of another.

id: quant-ph/0103156
title: Additivity for a class of unital qubit channels
authors: C. King
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103156
abstract: Additivity of the Holevo capacity is proved for product channels, under the condition that one of the channels is in a certain class of unital qubit channels, with the other completely arbitrary. This qubit class includes the depolarizing channel. As a byproduct this proves that the Holevo bound is the ultimate information capacity of such qubit channels (assuming no prior entanglement between sender and receiver). Additivity of minimal entropy and multiplicativity of p-norms are also proved under the same assumptions.

id: quant-ph/0103157
title: Entanglement Induced Phase Transitions
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston, Matthew F. Parry
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A374, 2424-2428 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103157
abstract: Starting from the canonical ensemble over the space of pure quantum states, we obtain an integral representation for the partition function. This is used to calculate the magnetisation of a system of N spin-1/2 particles. The results suggest the existence of a new type of first order phase transition that occurs at zero temperature in the absence of spin-spin interactions. The transition arises as a consequence of quantum entanglement. The effects of internal interactions are analysed and the behaviour of the magnetic susceptibility for a small number of interacting spins is determined.

id: quant-ph/0103158
title: More Is Not Necessarily Easier
authors: Debbie W. Leung, John A. Smolin
comments: One reference corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103158
abstract: In this brief comment, we consider the exact, deterministic, and nonasymptotic transformation of multiple copies of pure states under LOCC. It was conjectured in quant-ph/0103131 that, if $k$ copies of $|\psi\>$ can be transformed to $k$ copies of $|\phi\>$, the same holds for all $r \geq k$. We present counterexamples to the above conjecture.

id: quant-ph/0103159
title: Teleportation with the entangled states of a beam splitter
authors: P. T. Cochrane, G. J. Milburn
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX, 3 figures postscript, removed three figures, added an additional figure, added some references, tighter explanation of ridge structure of average fidelity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 062312 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103159
abstract: We present a teleportation protocol based upon the entanglement produced from Fock states incident onto a beam splitter of arbitrary transmissivity. The teleportation fidelity is analysed, its trends being explained from consideration of a beam splitter's input/output characteristics.

id: quant-ph/0103160
title: Enhanced Estimation of a Noisy Quantum Channel Using Entanglement
authors: Dietmar G. Fischer, Holger Mack, Markus A. Cirone, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103160
abstract: We discuss the estimation of channel parameters for a noisy quantum channel - the so-called Pauli channel - using finite resources. It turns out that prior entanglement considerably enhances the fidelity of the estimation when we compare it to an estimation scheme based on separable quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0103161
title: Quantum measurements, Information, and Dual States Representations
authors: Mayburov. S
comments: 15 pages, Latex, Brief version published in : 'Proc. of 4th Quantum Communications,Computers and Measurements Conference', (Kluwer, Amsterdam, 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103161
abstract: The quantum measurement problem considered for the model of measuring system (MS) consist of measured state S (particle), detector D and information processing device (observer) $O$ interacting with S,D. For 'external' observer $O'$ MS evolution obeys to Schrodinger equation (SE) and $O$ (self)description of MS reconstructed from it in Breuer ansatz. MS irreversible evolution (state collapse) for $O$ can be obtained if the true quantum states manifold has the dual structure $L_T=\cal {H} \bigotimes L_V$ where $\cal H$ is Hilbert space and $\cal L_V$ is the set with elements $V^O=|O_j> < O_j|$ describing random 'pointer' outcomes $O_j$ observed by $O$ in the individual events. Possible experimental tests of this dual states structure described. The results interpretation in Quantum Information framework and Relational Quantum Mechanics discussed.

id: quant-ph/0103162
title: A new proof for the existence of mutually unbiased bases
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, P. Oscar Boykin, Vwani Roychowdhury, Farrokh Vatan
comments: Revised version. To appear in the special issue of Algorithmica on Quantum Algorithms and Quantum Cryptography
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103162
abstract: We develop a strong connection between maximally commuting bases of orthogonal unitary matrices and mutually unbiased bases. A necessary condition of the existence of mutually unbiased bases for any finite dimension is obtained. Then a constructive proof of the existence of mutually unbiased bases for dimensions which are power of a prime is presented. It is also proved that in any dimension d the number of mutually unbiased bases is at most d+1. An explicit representation of mutually unbiased observables in terms of Pauli matrices are provided for d=2^m.

id: quant-ph/0103163
title: Collective Rabi Oscillations and Cold Collisions
authors: J.I. Kim, P. Nussenzveig
comments: Revtex, 6 pages, Opt. Comm. in press, misprints corrected and better fig2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103163
abstract: We examine cold atomic collisions within a resonant optical cavity. The quantized cavity mode can be used to manipulate the collisions between the cold atoms, such that periodic exchange of excitations between the atoms and the electromagnetic field strongly alters the collision dynamics. A colliding pair of atoms can thereby oscillate between its ground and excited states during the collision time. Using a semiclassical model, it can be predicted that such Rabi-like oscillations are revealed in the atomic trap-loss probabilities, which show maxima and minima as a function of the detuning between the frequencies of the mode and the atomic transition.

id: quant-ph/0103164
title: The Local Larmor Clock, Partial Densities of States, and Mesoscopic Physics
authors: M. Buttiker
comments: 
journal: in "Time in Quantum Mechanics", edited by J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato and I. L. Egusquiza, Lecture Notes in Physics (Springer, Berlin, 2002).p. 256. Monographs; m72 ISBN 3-540-43294-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103164
abstract: The local Larmor clock is used to derive a hierarchy of local densities of states. At the bottom of this hierarchy are the partial density of states for which represent the contribution to the local density of states if both the incident and outgoing scattering channel are prescribed. On the next higher level is the injectivity which represents the contribution to the local density of states if only the incident channel is prescribed regardless of the final scattering channel. The injectivity is related by reciprocity to the emissivity of a point into a quantum channel. The sum of all partial density of states or the sum of all injectivities or the sum of all emissivities is equal to the local density of states. The use of the partial density of states is illustrated for a number of different electron transport problems in mesoscopic physics: The transmission from a tunneling tip into a mesoscopic conductor, the discussion of inelastic or phase breaking scattering with a voltage probe, and the ac-conductance of mesoscopic conductors. The transition from a capacitive response (positive time-delay) to an inductive response (negative time-delay) for a quantum point contact is used to illustrate the difficulty in associating time-scales with a linear response analysis. A brief discussion of the off-diagonal elements of a partial density of states matrix is presented. The off-diagonal elements permit to investigate carrier fluctuations away from the average carrier density. The work concludes with a discussion of the relation between the partial density of states matrix and the Wigner-Smith delay time matrix.

id: quant-ph/0103165
title: Toward the Quantum Design of Multichannel Systems (The Inverse Problem Approach)
authors: V. M. Chabanov, B. N. Zakhariev, I. V. Amirkhanov
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, v.285, 1-24 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103165
abstract: The multichannel generalization of the theory of spectral, scattering and decay control is presented. New universal algorithms of construction of complex quantum systems with given properties are suggested. Particularly, transformations of interaction matrices leading to the concentration of waves in a chosen partial channel and spatial localization are shown. The limiting instructive cases illustrating different phenomena which occur with the combination of 'incompatible' properties are considered. For example, the scattering solutions with different resonance widths at the same energy for the same interaction are revealed. Analogously, a 'paradoxical' coexistence of both strong reflection and absolute transparency is explained. The case of the violation of 'natural' asymptotic behavior of partial wave function is demonstrated : it has a greater damping decrement for the channel with a lower threshold. Peculiarities of the multichannel periodic structures, bound states embedded into continuum, resonance tunneling and degeneracy of states are described.

id: quant-ph/0103166
title: What is wrong with SLASH?
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: Manuscript prepared 1989
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103166
abstract: In an experiment featuring nonlinear optics, delayed choice and EPR-type correlations, the possibility of faster-than-light communication appears not totally implausible. Attempts are put forward and discussed to refute this claim.

id: quant-ph/0103167
title: Entanglement generation and degradation by passive optical devices
authors: Stefan Scheel, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 11 pages, RevTeX, 11 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103167
abstract: The influence of losses in the interferometric generation and the transmission of continuous-variable entangled light is studied, with special emphasis on Gaussian states. Based on the theory of quantum-state transformation at absorbing dielectric devices, the amount of entanglement is quantified by means of the relative-entropy measure. Upper bounds of entanglement and the distance to the set of separable Gaussian states are calculated. Compared with the distance measure, the bounds can substantially overestimate the entanglement. In particular, they do not show the drastic decrease of entanglement with increasing mean photon number, as does the distance measure.

id: quant-ph/0103168
title: Interferometric Bell-state preparation using femtosecond-pulse-pumped Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Maria V. Chekhova, Sergei P. Kulik, Morton H. Rubin, Yanhua Shih
comments: 11 pages, two-column format, to appear in PRA
journal: PRA 63, 062301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103168
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental study of preparing maximally entangled two-photon polarization states, or Bell states, using femtosecond pulse pumped spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). First, we show how the inherent distinguishability in femtosecond pulse pumped type-II SPDC can be removed by using an interferometric technique without spectral and amplitude post-selection. We then analyze the recently introduced Bell state preparation scheme using type-I SPDC. Theoretically, both methods offer the same results, however, type-I SPDC provides experimentally superior methods of preparing Bell states in femtosecond pulse pumped SPDC. Such a pulsed source of highly entangled photon pairs is useful in quantum communications, quantum cryptography, quantum teleportation, etc.

id: quant-ph/0103169
title: Localization and diffusion in Ising-type quantum networks
authors: P. Torma, I. Jex, W.P. Schleich
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103169
abstract: We investigate the effect of phase randomness in Ising-type quantum networks. These networks model a large class of physical systems. They describe micro- and nanostructures or arrays of optical elements such as beam splitters (interferometers) or parameteric amplifiers. Most of these stuctures are promising candidates for quantum information processing networks. We demonstrate that such systems exhibit two very distinct types of behaviour. For certain network configurations (parameters), they show quantum localization similar to Anderson localization whereas classical stochastic behaviour is observed in other cases. We relate these findings to the standard theory of quantum localization.

id: quant-ph/0103170
title: Detecting the inseparability and distillability of continuous variable states in Fock space
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin, Matsumoto Keiji, Tomita Akihisa
comments: 8 pages, no figure, some typing errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 87, 137903(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103170
abstract: The partial transposition(PT) operation is an effecient tool in detecting the inseparability of a mixed state. We give an explicit formula for the PT operation for the continuous variable states in Fock space. We then give the necessary and sufficient condition for the positivity of Gaussian operators. Based on this, a number of creterions on the inseparability and distillability for the multimode Gaussian states are naturally drawn. We finally give an explicit formula for the state in a subspace of a global Gaussian state. This formula, together with the known results for Gaussian states, gives the criterions for the inseparability and distillability in a subspace of the global Gaussian state.

id: quant-ph/0103171
title: Optimally shaped terahertz pulses for phase retrieval in a Rydberg atom data register
authors: C. Rangan, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0103171
abstract: We employ Optimal Control Theory to discover an efficient information retrieval algorithm that can be performed on a Rydberg atom data register using a shaped terahertz pulse. The register is a Rydberg wave packet with one consituent orbital phase-reversed from the others (the ``marked bit''). The terahertz pulse that performs the decoding algorithm does so by by driving electron probability density into the marked orbital. Its shape is calculated by modifying the target of an optimal control problem so that it represents the direct product of all correct solutions to the algorithm.

id: cond-mat/0103005
title: Dynamics of a mesoscopic qubit under continuous quantum measurement
authors: Hsi-Sheng Goan, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 12 pages (one-column Revtex), 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 235307 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103005
abstract: We present the conditional quantum dynamics of an electron tunneling between two quantum dots subject to a measurement using a low transparency point contact or tunnel junction. The double dot system forms a single qubit and the measurement corresponds to a continuous in time readout of the occupancy of the quantum dot. We illustrate the difference between conditional and unconditional dynamics of the qubit. The conditional dynamics is discussed in two regimes depending on the rate of tunneling through the point contact: quantum jumps, in which individual electron tunneling current events can be distinguished, and a diffusive dynamics in which individual events are ignored, and the time-averaged current is considered as a continuous diffusive variable. We include the effect of inefficient measurement and the influence of the relative phase between the two tunneling amplitudes of the double dot/point contact system.

id: cond-mat/0103085
title: Bosons in cigar-shape traps: Thomas-Fermi regime, Tonks-Girardeau regime, and between
authors: Vanja Dunjko, Vincent Lorent, Maxim Olshanii
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 86, 5413 (2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103085
abstract: We present a quantitative analysis of the experimental accessibility of the Tonks-Girardeau gas in the current day experiments with cigar-trapped alkalis. For this purpose we derive, using a Bethe anzats generated local equation of state, a set of hydrostatic equations describing one-dimensional delta-interacting Bose gases trapped in a harmonic potential. The resulting solutions cover the_entire range_ of atomic densities.

id: cond-mat/0103174
title: How to split the electron in one dimension
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, T. J. Newman, J. P. Straley
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103174
abstract: Using the example of the Davydov soliton - a large acoustic polaron in one dimension - we demonstrate that the electron wave function can be fissioned in two or more long-lived, well-localized and spatially arbitrarily far separated fragments. The phenomenon of wave function splitting is a result of the electron-medium interaction, and takes place under a variety of conditions provided the initial wave function of the electron is localized and has at least one node.

id: cond-mat/0103251
title: 1/2-Anyons in small atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: B. Paredes, P. Fedichev, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103251
abstract: We discuss a way of creating, manipulating and detecting anyons in rotating Bose-Einstein condensates consisting of a small number of atoms . By achieving a quasidegeneracy in the atomic motional states we drive the system into a 1/2--Laughlin state for fractional quantum Hall bosons. Localized 1/2--quasiholes can be created by focusing lasers at the desired positions. We show how to manipulate these quasiholes in order to probe directly their 1/2--statistics.

id: cond-mat/0103295
title: Fluorescence from a few electrons
authors: J. Arnaud, L. Chusseau, F. Philippe
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. B 62 (2000) 13482-13489
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103295
abstract: Systems containing few Fermions (e.g., electrons) are of great current interest. Fluorescence occurs when electrons drop from one level to another without changing spin. Only electron gases in a state of equilibrium are considered. When the system may exchange electrons with a large reservoir, the electron-gas fluorescence is easily obtained from the well-known Fermi-Dirac distribution. But this is not so when the number of electrons in the system is prevented from varying, as is the case for isolated systems and for systems that are in thermal contact with electrical insulators such as diamond. Our accurate expressions rest on the assumption that single-electron energy levels are evenly spaced, and that energy coupling and spin coupling between electrons are small. These assumptions are shown to be realistic for many systems. Fluorescence from short, nearly isolated, quantum wires is predicted to drop abruptly in the visible, a result not predicted by the Fermi-Dirac distribution. Our exact formulas are based on restricted and unrestricted partitions of integers. The method is considerably simpler than the ones proposed earlier, which are based on second quantization and contour integration.

id: cond-mat/0103297
title: Storage Qubits and Their Potential Implementation Through a Semiconductor Double Quantum Dot
authors: E. Pazy, I. D'Amico, P. Zanardi, F. Rossi
comments: Revised version accepted for publication in Phys.Rev. B. 19 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 195320 (2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103297
abstract: In the context of a semiconductor based implementation of a quantum computer the idea of a quantum storage bit is presented and a possible implementation using a double quantum dot structure is considered. A measurement scheme using a stimulated Raman adiabatic passage is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0103310
title: Creating vortex rings and three-dimensional skyrmions in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J. Ruostekoski, J. R. Anglin
comments: 4 pages; to appear in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.86:3934-3937,2001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103310
abstract: We propose a method of generating a vortex ring in a Bose-Einstein condensate by means of electromagnetically-induced atomic transitions. Some remnant population of atoms in a second internal state remains within the toroidal trap formed by the mean field repulsion of the vortex ring. This population can be removed, or it can be made to flow around the torus (i.e. within the vortex ring). If this flow has unit topological winding number, the entire structure formed by the two condensates is an example of a three-dimensional skyrmion texture.

id: cond-mat/0103410
title: Effect of an inhomogeneous external magnetic field on a quantum dot quantum computer
authors: Rogerio de Sousa, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures embedded in text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 042307 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103410
abstract: We calculate the effect of an inhomogeneous magnetic field, which is invariably present in an experimental environment, on the exchange energy of a double quantum dot artificial molecule, projected to be used as a 2-qubit quantum gate in the proposed quantum dot quantum computer. We use two different theoretical methods to calculate the Hilbert space structure in the presence of the inhomogeneous field: the Heitler-London method which is carried out analytically and the molecular orbital method which is done computationally. Within these approximations we show that the exchange energy J changes slowly when the coupled dots are subject to a magnetic field with a wide range of inhomogeneity, suggesting swap operations can be performed in such an environment as long as quantum error correction is applied to account for the Zeeman term. We also point out the quantum interference nature of this slow variation in exchange.

id: cond-mat/0103437
title: Superposition of macroscopic numbers of atoms and molecules
authors: John Calsamiglia, Matt Mackie, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 160403 (2001).
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103437
abstract: We theoretically examine photoassociation of a non-ideal Bose-Einstein condensate, focusing on evidence for a macroscopic superposition of atoms and molecules. This problem raises an interest because, rather than two states of a given object, an atom-molecule system is a seemingly impossible macroscopic superposition of different objects. Nevertheless, photoassociation enables coherent intraparticle conversion, and we thereby propose a viable scheme for creating a superposition of a macroscopic number of atoms with a macroscopic number of molecules.

id: cond-mat/0103491
title: Multiple-path interferometer with a single quantum obstacle
authors: H. Schomerus, Y. Noat, J. Dalibard, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 57, 651 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103491
abstract: We consider the scattering of particles by an obstacle which tunnels coherently between two positions. We show that the obstacle mimics two classical scatterers at fixed positions when the kinetic energy epsilon of the incident particles is smaller than the tunnel splitting Delta: If the obstacles are arranged in parallel, one observes an interference pattern as in the conventional double-slit experiment. If they are arranged in series, the observations conform with a Fabry-Perot interferometer. At larger epsilon inelastic processes result in more complex interference phenomena. Interference disappears when epsilon >> Delta, but can be recovered if only the elastic scattering channel is detected. We discuss the realization of a quantum obstacle in mesoscopic systems.

id: cond-mat/0103532
title: Shot noise in coupled dots and the "fractional charges"
authors: Brahim Elattari, S.A. Gurvitz
comments: some clarifications added, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 292 (2002) 289.
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103532
abstract: We consider the problem of shot noise in resonant tunneling through double quantum dots in the case of interacting particles. Using a many-body quantum mechanical description we evaluate the energy dependent transmission probability, the total average current and the shot noise spectrum. Our results show that the obtained reduction of the noise spectrum, due to Coulomb interaction, can be interpret in terms of non--interacting particles with fractional charge like behavior.

id: cond-mat/0103632
title: Dilute Bose gas in two dimensions: Density expansions and the Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: A. Yu. Cherny, A. A. Shanenko
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 027105 (2001).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0103632
abstract: A dilute two-dimensional (2D) Bose gas at zero temperature is studied by the method developed earlier by the authors. Low density expansions are derived for the chemical potential, ground state energy, kinetic and interaction energies. The expansion parameter is found to be a dimensionless in-medium scattering amplitude u obeying the equation 1/u+\ln u=-\ln(na^2\pi)-2\gamma, where na^2 and \gamma are the gas parameter and the Euler constant, respectively. It is shown that the ground state energy is mostly kinetic in the low density limit; this result does not depend on a specific form of the pairwise interaction potential, contrary to 3D case. A new form of 2D Gross-Pitaevskii equation is proposed within our scheme.

id: cs/0103009
title: Toward an architecture for quantum programming
authors: S. Bettelli, L. Serafini, T. Calarco
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures, A4paper. Final version accepted by EJPD ("swap" replaced by "invert" for Qops). Preliminary implementation available at: this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, Vol. 25, No. 2, pp. 181-200 (2003)
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0103009
abstract: It is becoming increasingly clear that, if a useful device for quantum computation will ever be built, it will be embodied by a classical computing machine with control over a truly quantum subsystem, this apparatus performing a mixture of classical and quantum computation. This paper investigates a possible approach to the problem of programming such machines: a template high level quantum language is presented which complements a generic general purpose classical language with a set of quantum primitives. The underlying scheme involves a run-time environment which calculates the byte-code for the quantum operations and pipes it to a quantum device controller or to a simulator. This language can compactly express existing quantum algorithms and reduce them to sequences of elementary operations; it also easily lends itself to automatic, hardware independent, circuit simplification. A publicly available preliminary implementation of the proposed ideas has been realized using the C++ language.

id: cs/0103021
title: Quantum Clock Synchronization with one qubit
authors: Chris Harrelson, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0103021
abstract: The clock synchronization problem is to determine the time difference T between two spatially separated parties. We improve on I. Chuang's quantum clock synchronization algorithm and show that it is possible to obtain T to n bits of accuracy while communicating only one qubit in one direction and using an O(2^n) frequency range. We also prove a quantum lower bound of \Omega(2^n) for the product of the transmitted qubits and the range of frequencies, thus showing that our algorithm is optimal.

id: gr-qc/0103002
title: The Early Universe as a Quantum Growing Network
authors: P. A. Zizzi
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures.Contribution to the IQSA Fifth Conference, March 31 - April 5, 2001, Cesena-Cesenatico, Italy. Submitted to General Relativity and Gravitation. References added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0103002
abstract: We consider a quantum gravity register that is a particular quantum memory register which grows with time, and whose qubits are pixels of area of quantum de Sitter horizons. At each time step, the vacuum state of this quantum register grows because of the uncertainty in quantum information induced by the vacuum quantum fluctuations. The resulting virtual states, (responsible for the speed up of growth, i.e., inflation), are operated on by quantum logic gates and transformed into qubits. The model of quantum growing network (QGN) described here is exactly solvable, and (apart from its cosmological implications), can be regarded as the first attempt toward a future model for the quantum World-Wide Web. We also show that the bound on the speed of computation, the bound on clock precision, and the holographic bound, are saturated by the QGN.

id: hep-ph/0103239
title: Irreversibility and dissipation in neutral B-meson decays
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, R. Romano
comments: 33 pages, plain-TeX, no figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B602:541-571,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0103239
abstract: The propagation and decay of neutral B-mesons can be described in terms of quantum dynamical semigroups; they provide generalized time-evolutions that take into account possible non-standard effects leading to loss of phase coherence and dissipation. These effects can be fully parametrized in terms of six phenomenological constants. A detailed analysis of selected B-meson decays shows that present and future dedicated experiments, both at colliders and B-factories, will be able to put stringent bounds on these non-standard parameters.

id: hep-ph/0103298
title: Can experimental tests of Bell inequalities performed with pseudoscalar mesons be definitive?
authors: M.Genovese, C. Novero, E. Predazzi
comments: submitted for publication
journal: Phys.Lett. B513 (2001) 401-405
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0103298
abstract: We discuss if experimental tests of Bell inequalities performed with pseudoscalar mesons (K or B) can be definitive. Our conclusion is that this is not the case, for the efficiency loophole cannot be eliminated.

id: hep-ph/0103325
title: Quantum algebras in phenomenological description of particle properties
authors: A. M. Gavrilik
comments: Latex, espcrc2.sty, 8 pages, 1 figure; v4: eq.(19) corrected. Based on talk given at the D.V.Volkov Memorial Conference (25-29 July, 2000, Kharkov, Ukraine)
journal: Nucl.Phys.Proc.Suppl.102:298-305,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0103325
abstract: Quantum and q-deformed algebras find their application not only in mathematical physics and field theoretical context, but also in phenomenology of particle properties. We describe (i) the use of quantum algebras U_q(su_n) corresponding to Lie algebras of the groups SU(n), taken for flavor symmetries of hadrons, in deriving new high-accuracy hadron mass sum rules, and (ii) the use of (multimode) q-oscillator algebras along with q-Bose gas picture in modelling the properties of the intercept \lambda of two-pion (two-kaon) correlations in heavy-ion collisions, as \lambda shows sizable observed deviation from the expected Bose-Einstein type behavior. The deformation parameter q is in case (i) argued and in case (ii) conjectured to be connected with the Cabibbo angle \theta_C.

id: hep-th/0103010
title: Quantum Energies of Interfaces
authors: N. Graham, R. L. Jaffe, M. Quandt, H. Weigel
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, minor changes, Phys. Rev. Lett., in print
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 87 (2001) 131601
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103010
abstract: We present a method for computing the one-loop, renormalized quantum energies of symmetrical interfaces of arbitrary dimension and codimension using elementary scattering data. Internal consistency requires finite-energy sum rules relating phase shifts to bound state energies.

id: hep-th/0103013
title: Quantum Hall states as matrix Chern-Simons theory
authors: Alexios P. Polychronakos
comments: 18 pages; final version to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 0104:011,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103013
abstract: We propose a finite Chern-Simons matrix model on the plane as an effective description of fractional quantum Hall fluids of finite extent. The quantization of the inverse filling fraction and of the quasiparticle number is shown to arise quantum mechanically and to agree with Laughlin theory. We also point out the effective equivalence of this model, and therefore of the quantum Hall system, with the Calogero model.

id: hep-th/0103040
title: Free conical dynamics: charge-monopole as a particle with spin, anyon and nonlinear fermion-monopole supersymmetry
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 8 pages, to be published in Nuclear Physics B Conference Supplements (D.V.Volkov Memorial Conference ``Supersymmetry and Quantum Field Theory'', Kharkov, July 25-29, 2000)
journal: Nucl.Phys.Proc.Suppl. 102 (2001) 248-255
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103040
abstract: We discuss the origin of the effectively free dynamics of the charge in the magnetic monopole field to apply it for finding the alternative treatment of the charge-monopole as a particle with spin, for tracing out the relation of the charge-monopole to the free relativistic anyon and for clarifying the nature of the non-standard nonlinear supersymmetry of the fermion-monopole system.

id: hep-th/0103050
title: Divergencies in the Casimir energy for a medium with realistic ultraviolet behavior
authors: H. Falomir, K. Kirsten, K. Rbora
comments: article style, 10 pages
journal: J.Phys.A34:6291-6299,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103050
abstract: We consider a dielectric medium with an ultraviolet behavior as it follows from the Drude model. Compared with dilute models, this has the advantage that, for large frequencies, two different media behave the same way. As a result one expects the Casimir energy to contain less divergencies than for the dilute media approximation. We show that the Casimir energy of a spherical dielectric ball contains just one divergent term, a volume one, which can be renormalized by introducing a contact term analogous to the volume energy counterterm needed in bag models. PACS: 12.20.Ds, 03.70.+k, 77.22.Ch

id: hep-th/0103051
title: Spectral equivalences, Bethe Ansatz equations, and reality properties in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Roberto Tateo
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures, Latex2e, amssymb, cite and graphicx. v2: References, and a new section with two further dualities, added; typos corrected. v3: Ref [8] corrected. v4: 5 more references,and more typos corrected v5: New title, note added at end and 3 new refs
journal: J.Phys.A34:5679-5704,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103051
abstract: The one-dimensional Schrodinger equation for the potential $x^6+\alpha x^2 +l(l+1)/x^2$ has many interesting properties. For certain values of the parameters l and alpha the equation is in turn supersymmetric (Witten), quasi-exactly solvable (Turbiner), and it also appears in Lipatov's approach to high energy QCD. In this paper we signal some further curious features of these theories, namely novel spectral equivalences with particular second- and third-order differential equations. These relationships are obtained via a recently-observed connection between the theories of ordinary differential equations and integrable models. Generalised supersymmetry transformations acting at the quasi-exactly solvable points are also pointed out, and an efficient numerical procedure for the study of these and related problems is described. Finally we generalise slightly and then prove a conjecture due to Bessis, Zinn-Justin, Bender and Boettcher, concerning the reality of the spectra of certain PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical systems.

id: hep-th/0103054
title: Broken Supersymmetric Shape Invariant Systems and Their Potential Algebras
authors: Asim Gangopadhyaya, Jeffry V. Mallow, Uday P. Sukhatme
comments: Latex file, 10 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A283 (2001) 279-284
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103054
abstract: Although eigenspectra of one dimensional shape invariant potentials with unbroken supersymmetry are easily obtained, this procedure is not applicable when the parameters in these potentials correspond to broken supersymmetry, since there is no zero energy eigenstate. We describe a novel two-step shape invariance approach as well as a group theoretic potential algebra approach for solving such broken supersymmetry problems.

id: hep-th/0103107
title: Dimensional Reduction via Noncommutative Spacetime: Bootstrap and Holography
authors: Miao Li
comments: 15 pages, harvmac. v2: typos corrected and some changes made
journal: JHEP 0205 (2002) 033
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103107
abstract: Unlike noncommutative space, when space and time are noncommutative, it seems necessary to modify the usual scheme of quantum mechanics. We propose in this paper a simple generalization of the time evolution equation in quantum mechanics to incorporate the feature of a noncommutative spacetime. This equation is much more constraining than the usual Schr\"odinger equation in that the spatial dimension noncommuting with time is effectively reduced to a point in low energy. We thus call the new evolution equation the spacetime bootstrap equation, the dimensional reduction called for by this evolution seems close to what is required by the holographic principle. We will discuss several examples to demonstrate this point.

id: hep-th/0103228
title: New Approach to Quantum Field Theory for Arbitrary Observers in Electromagnetic Backgrounds
authors: Carl E. Dolby, Stephen F. Gull
comments: 36 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 293 (2001) 189-214
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0103228
abstract: A reformulation of fermionic QFT in electromagnetic backgrounds is presented which uses methods analogous to those of conventional multiparticle quantum mechanics. Emphasis is placed on the (Schr\"odinger picture) states of the system, described in terms of Slater determinants of Dirac states, and not on the field operator $\hat{\psi}(x)$ (which is superfluous in this approach). The vacuum state `at time $\tau$' is defined as the Slater determinant of a basis for the span of the negative spectrum of the `first quantized' Hamiltonian $\hat{H}(\tau)$, thus providing a concrete realisation of the Dirac Sea. The general S-matrix element of the theory is derived in terms of time-dependent Bogoliubov coefficients, demonstrating that the S-matrix follows directly from the definition of inner product between Slater determinants. The process of `Hermitian extension', inherited directly from conventional multiparticle quantum mechanics, allows second quantized operators to be defined without appealing to a complete set of orthonormal modes, and provides an extremely straightforward derivation of the general expectation value of the theory. The concept of `radar time', advocated by Bondi in his work on k-calculus, is used to generalise the particle interpretation to an arbitrarily moving observer. A definition of particle results, which depends {\it only} on the observer's motion and the background present, not on any choice of coordinates or gauge, or of the particle detector. We relate this approach to conventional methods by comparing and contrasting various derivations. Our particle definition can be viewed as a generalisation to arbitrary observers of Gibbons' approach.

id: math-ph/0103015
title: On the multiplicativity conjecture for quantum channels
authors: G. G. Amosov, A. S. Holevo
comments: 7 pages, LATEX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103015
abstract: A multiplicativity conjecture for quantum communication channels is formulated, validity of which for the values of parameter $p$ close to 1 is related to the solution of the fundamental problem of additivity of the channel capacity in quantum information theory. The proof of the conjecture is given for the case of natural numbers $p$.

id: math-ph/0103027
title: Potential approximations to $'$: an inverse Klauder phenomenon with norm-resolvent convergence
authors: Pavel Exner, Hagen Neidhardt, Valentin Zagrebnov
comments: LaTeX2e, a revised version to be published in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 224 (2001), 593-612
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103027
abstract: We show that there is a family Schroedinger operators with scaled potentials which approximates the $\delta'$-interaction Hamiltonian in the norm-resolvent sense. This approximation, based on a formal scheme proposed by Cheon and Shigehara, has nontrivial convergence properties which are in several respects opposite to those of the Klauder phenomenon.

id: math-ph/0103029
title: Asymptotics of eigenvalues of the Schroedinger operator with a strong delta-interaction on a loop
authors: Pavel Exner, Kazushi Yoshitomi
comments: amstex, 15 pages
journal: J. Geom. Phys. 41 (2002), 344-358
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103029
abstract: In this paper we investigate the operator $H_{\beta}=-\Delta-\beta\delta(\cdot-\Gamma)$ in $L^{2}({\Bbb R}^{2})$, where $\beta>0$ and $\Gamma$ is a closed $C^{4}$ Jordan curve in ${\Bbb R}^{2}$. We obtain the asymptotic form of each eigenvalue of $H_{\beta}$ as $\beta$ tends to infinity. We also get the asymptotic form of the number of negative eigenvalues of $H_{\beta}$ in the strong coupling asymptotic regime.

id: math-ph/0103030
title: Quantum mechanics of layers with a finite number of point perturbations
authors: Pavel Exner, Katerina Nemcova
comments: LateX 2e, 48 pages, with 3 ps and 3 eps figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002), 1152-1184
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103030
abstract: We study spectral and scattering properties of a spinless quantum particle confined to an infinite planar layer with hard walls containing a finite number of point perturbations. A solvable character of the model follows from the explicit form of the Hamiltonian resolvent obtained by means of Krein's formula. We prove the existence of bound states, demonstrate their properties, and find the on-shell scattering operator. Furthermore, we analyze the situation when the system is put into a homogeneous magnetic field perpendicular to the layer; in that case the point interactions generate eigenvalues of a finite multiplicity in the gaps of the free Hamiltonian essential spectrum.

id: math-ph/0103036
title: Magnetic transport in a straight parabolic channel
authors: P.Exner, A.Joye, H.Kovarik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103036
abstract: We study a charged two-dimensional particle confined to a straight parabolic-potential channel and exposed to a homogeneous magnetic field under influence of a potential perturbation $W$. If $W$ is bounded and periodic along the channel, a perturbative argument yields the absolute continuity of the bottom of the spectrum. We show it can have any finite number of open gaps provided the confining potential is sufficiently strong. However, if $W$ depends on the periodic variable only, we prove by Thomas argument that the whole spectrum is absolutely continuous, irrespectively of the size of the perturbation. On the other hand, if $W$ is small and satisfies a weak localization condition in the the longitudinal direction, we prove by Mourre method that a part of the absolutely continuous spectrum persists.

id: math-ph/0103041
title: Weakly regular Floquet Hamiltonians with pure point spectrum
authors: P. Duclos, O. Lev, P. Stovicek, M. Vittot
comments: 35 pages, Latex with AmsArt
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0103041
abstract: We study the Floquet Hamiltonian: -i omega d/dt + H + V(t) as depending on the parameter omega. We assume that the spectrum of H is discrete, {h_m (m = 1..infinity)}, with h_m of multiplicity M_m. and that V is an Hermitian operator, 2pi-periodic in t. Let J > 0 and set Omega_0 = [8J/9,9J/8]. Suppose that for some sigma > 0: sum_{m,n such that h_m > h_n} mu_{mn}(h_m - h_n)^(-sigma) < infinity where mu_{mn} = sqrt(min{M_m,M_n)) M_m M_n. We show that in that case there exist a suitable norm to measure the regularity of V, denoted epsilon, and positive constants, epsilon_* & delta_*, such that: if epsilon < epsilon_* then there exists a measurable subset |Omega_infinity| > |Omega_0| - delta_* epsilon and the Floquet Hamiltonian has a pure point spectrum for all omega in Omega_infinity.

id: nlin/0103031
title: Localization properties of groups of eigenstates in chaotic systems
authors: D. A. Wisniacki, F. Borondo, E. Vergini, R. M. Benito
comments: 9 pages, 8 Postscript figures (low resolution). For high resolution versions of figs this http URL To appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Review E 63, 066220 2001
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0103031
abstract: In this paper we study in detail the localized wave functions defined in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 76}, 1613 (1994), in connection with the scarring effect of unstable periodic orbits in highly chaotic Hamiltonian system. These functions appear highly localized not only along periodic orbits but also on the associated manifolds. Moreover, they show in phase space the hyperbolic structure in the vicinity of the orbit, something which translates in configuration space into the structure induced by the corresponding self--focal points. On the other hand, the quantum dynamics of these functions are also studied. Our results indicate that the probability density first evolves along the unstable manifold emanating from the periodic orbit, and localizes temporarily afterwards on only a few, short related periodic orbits. We believe that this type of studies can provide some keys to disentangle the complexity associated to the quantum mechanics of these kind of systems, which permits the construction of a simple explanation in terms of the dynamics of a few classical structures.

id: nucl-th/0103015
title: Exactly solvable three-body Calogero-type model with translucent two-body barriers
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Milos Tater
comments: 10 pages in Latex, 2 ps figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A284 (2001) 225-230
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0103015
abstract: A new exactly solvable alternative to the Calogero three-particle model is proposed. Sharing its confining long-range part, it contains the mere zero-range two-particle barriers. Their penetrability gives rise to a tunneling, tunable via their three independent strengths. Their variability can control the removal of the degeneracy of the energy levels in an innovative, non-perturbative manner.

id: physics/0103014
title: Wave packet propagation study of the charge transfer interaction in the F^- -Cu(111) and -Ag(111) systems
authors: A.G. Borisov, J.P. Gauyacq, S.V. Shabanov
comments: 34 pages, Revtex, 9 figures (postscript)
journal: Surf. Sci. 487 (2001) 243-257
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0103014
abstract: The electron transfer between an $F^{-}$ ion and $Cu(111)$ and $Ag(111)$ surfaces is studied by the wave packet propagation method in order to determine specifics of the charge transfer interaction between the negative ion and the metal surface due to the projected band gap. A new modeling of the $F^{-}$ ion is developed that allows one to take into account the six quasi-equivalent electrons of $F^{-}$ which are {\it a priori} active in the charge transfer process. The new model invokes methods of constrained quantum dynamics. The six-electron problem is transformed to two one-electron problems linked via a constraint. The projection method is used to develop a wave packet propagation subject to the modeling constraint. The characteristics (energy and width) of the ion $F^{-}$ ion level interacting with the two surfaces are determined and discussed in connection with the surface projected band gap.

id: physics/0103021
title: Kinetic theory of QED plasma in a strong electromagnetic field I. The covariant hyperplane formalism
authors: A. Hoell, V.G. Morozov, G. Roepke
comments: 30 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0103021
abstract: We develop a covariant density matrix approach to kinetic theory of QED plasmas subjected into a strong external electromagnetic field. A canonical quantization of the system on space-like hyperplanes in Minkowski space and a covariant generalization of the Coulomb gauge is used. The condensate mode associated with the mean electromagnetic field is separated from the photon degrees of freedom by a time-dependent unitary transformation of both, the dynamical variables and the nonequilibrium statistical operator. Therefore even in the case of strong external fields a perturbative expansion in orders of the fine structure constant for the correlation functions as well as the statistical operator is applicable. A general scheme for deriving kinetic equations in the hyperplane formalism is presented.

