id: quant-ph/0104001
title: Teleportation cost and hybrid compression of quantum signals
authors: Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104001
abstract: The amount of entanglement necessary to teleport quantum states drawn from general ensemble $\{p_i,\rho_i\}$ is derived. The case of perfect transmission of individual states and that of asymptotically faithful transmission are discussed. Using the latter result, we also derive the optimum compression rate when the ensemble is compressed into qubits and bits.

id: quant-ph/0104002
title: Raman cooling and heating of two trapped Ba+ ions
authors: D. Reiss, K. Abich, W. Neuhauser, Ch. Wunderlich, P.E. Toschek
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 053401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104002
abstract: We study cooling of the collective vibrational motion of two 138Ba+ ions confined in an electrodynamic trap and irradiated with laser light close to the resonances S_1/2-P_1/2 (493 nm) and P_1/2-D_3/2 (650 nm). The motional state of the ions is monitored by a spatially resolving photo multiplier. Depending on detuning and intensity of the cooling lasers, macroscopically different motional states corresponding to different ion temperatures are observed. We also derive the ions' temperature from detailed analytical calculations of laser cooling taking into account the Zeeman structure of the energy levels involved. The observed motional states perfectly match the calculated temperatures. Significant heating is observed in the vicinity of the dark resonances of the Zeeman-split S_1/2-D_3/2 Raman transitions. Here two-photon processes dominate the interaction between lasers and ions. Parameter regimes of laser light are identified that imply most efficient laser cooling.

id: quant-ph/0104003
title: Gravitational bouncing of a quantum ball: Room for Airy's function Bi
authors: H.C. Rosu
comments: 5 pages, twocolumn, 7 eps figs of which 6 to be published, accepted at Physica Scripta
journal: Physica Scripta 65 (2002) 296-299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104003
abstract: I apply (i) a classical version of the Ermakov-Lewis procedure and (ii) the strictly isospectral supersymmetric approach to the Schroedinger free fall of the bouncing ball type. In both cases, the Airy function Bi, which in general is eliminated as being unphysical, plays a well-defined role. Relevant plots are displayed

id: quant-ph/0104004
title: Comment on ``Requirement of optical coherence for continuous--variable quantum teleportation'' by Terry Rudolph and Barry C. Sanders
authors: H.M. Wiseman
comments: 1 page, no figures (even no equations)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104004
abstract: The argument of Rudolph and Sanders, while technically correct, raises conceptual problems. In particular, if carried to its logical conclusion, it would disallow the use in our theories of any time $t$ with implied resolution beyond that of direct human experience.

id: quant-ph/0104005
title: Photon coincidence spectroscopy for two-atom cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: L. Horvath, B. C. Sanders
comments: 29 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt., vol 49, 285-303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104005
abstract: We show that photon coincidence spectroscopy can provide an unambiguous signature of two atoms simultaneously interacting with a quantised cavity field mode. We also show that the single-atom Jaynes-Cummings model can be probed effectively via photon coincidence spectroscopy, even with deleterious contributions to the signal from two-atom events. In addition, we have explicitly solved the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of two two-level atoms coupled to a quantised cavity mode for differing coupling strengths.

id: quant-ph/0104006
title: Quantum Market Games
authors: E. W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: Physica A 312 (2002) 208
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104006
abstract: We propose a quantum-like description of markets and economics. The approach has roots in the recently developed quantum game theory.

id: quant-ph/0104007
title: Mixedness in Bell-violation vs. Entanglement of Formation
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104007
abstract: Recently Munro, Nemoto and White (The Bell Inequality: A measure of Entanglement?, quant-ph/0102119) tried to indicate that the reason behind a state rho having higher amount of entanglement (as quantified by the entanglement of formation) than a state eta, but producing the same amount of Bell-violation, is due to the fact that the amount of mixedness (as quantified by the linearised entropy) in rho is higher than that in eta. We counter their argument with examples. We extend these considerations to the von Neumann entropy. Our results suggest that the reason as to why equal amount of Bell-violation requires different amounts of entanglement cannot, at least, be explained by mixedness alone.

id: quant-ph/0104008
title: Fidelity trade-off for finite ensembles of identically prepared qubits
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Igor Devetak
comments: 26 pages, REVTeX, 2 figures. Few minor corrections, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 052307 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104008
abstract: We calculate the trade-off between the quality of estimating the quantum state of an ensemble of identically prepared qubits and the minimum level of disturbance that has to be introduced by this procedure in quantum mechanics. The trade-off is quantified using two mean fidelities: the operation fidelity which characterizes the average resemblance of the final qubit state to the initial one, and the estimation fidelity describing the quality of the obtained estimate. We analyze properties of quantum operations saturating the achievability bound for the operation fidelity versus the estimation fidelity, which allows us to reduce substantially the complexity of the problem of finding the trade-off curve. The reduced optimization problem has the form of an eigenvalue problem for a set of tridiagonal matrices, and it can be easily solved using standard numerical tools.

id: quant-ph/0104009
title: On a Lie algebraic approach of quasi-exactly solvable potentials with two known eigenstates
authors: Y. Brihaye, N. Debergh, J. Ndimubandi
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104009
abstract: We compare two recent approaches of quasi-exactly solvable Schr\" odinger equations, the first one being related to finite-dimensional representations of $sl(2,R)$ while the second one is based on supersymmetric developments. Our results are then illustrated on the Razavy potential, the sextic oscillator and a scalar field model.

id: quant-ph/0104010
title: Noise and Order in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Per Rekdal, Bo-Sture Skagerstam
comments: 31 pages and 8 figures
journal: Physica A 305 (2002) 404-426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104010
abstract: In this paper we investigate the various aspects of noise and order in the micromaser system. In particular, we study the effect of adding fluctuations to the atom cavity transit time or to the atom-photon frequency detuning. By including such noise-producing mechanisms we study the probability and the joint probability for excited atoms to leave the cavity. The influence of such fluctuations on the phase structure of the micromaser as well as on the long-time atom correlation length is also discussed. We also derive the asymptotic form of micromaser observables.

id: quant-ph/0104011
title: Multipartite entangled coherent states
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, two figures. We added more detail discussions on the generation of multipartite entangled coherent states and multipartite entangelement
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104011
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating multipartite entangled coherent states via entanglement swapping, with an example of a physical realization in ion traps. Bipartite entanglement of these multipartite states is quantified by the concurrence. We also use the $N$--tangle to compute multipartite entanglement for certain systems. Finally we establish that these results for entanglement can be applied to more general multipartite entangled nonorthogonal states.

id: quant-ph/0104012
title: Mutually unbiased binary observable sets on N qubits
authors: Jay Lawrence, Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Replacement - expanded introduction and conclusions; added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032320 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104012
abstract: The Pauli operators (tensor products of Pauli matrices) provide a complete basis of operators on the Hilbert space of N qubits. We prove that the set of 4^N-1 Pauli operators may be partitioned into 2^N+1 distinct subsets, each consisting of 2^N-1 internally commuting observables. Furthermore, each such partitioning defines a unique choice of 2^N+1 mutually unbiased basis sets in the N-qubit Hilbert space. Examples for 2 and 3 qubit systems are discussed with emphasis on the nature and amount of entanglement that occurs within these basis sets.

id: quant-ph/0104013
title: Local realism for K0-K0bar pairs
authors: G. Garbarino
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. To be published in the Proceedings of the International Congress 100 Years Of Quantum Theory, held in Madrid, Spain, 22nd - 25th November 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104013
abstract: In this talk we discuss the predictions of local realistic theories for the evolution of a K0-K0bar quantum entangled pair created in the decay of the phi-meson. It is shown, in agreement with Bell's theorem, that the most general local hidden-variable model fails in reproducing the whole set of quantum-mechanical observables. We achieve this conclusion by employing two different approaches. In the first approach, the local realistic observables are deduced from the most general premises concerning locality and realism, and Bell-like inequalities are not employed. The other approach makes use of Bell's inequalities. Under particular conditions for the detection times, within the first approach the discrepancy between quantum mechanics and local realism for the asymmetry parameter turns out to be not less than 20%. A similar incompatibility can be made evident by means of a Bell-type test, by employing a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt's inequality written in terms of properly normalized observables. Because of its relatively low experimental accuracy, the data obtained by the CPLEAR collaboration do not yet allow a decisive test of local realism. Such a test, both with and without the use of Bell's inequalities, should be feasible in the future at the Frascati Phi-factory.

id: quant-ph/0104014
title: Continuous variable teleportation of single photon states
authors: Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann, Takayoshi Kobayashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 14 pages, including 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012313 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104014
abstract: The properties of continuous variable teleportation of single photon states are investigated. The output state is different from the input state due to the non-maximal entanglement in the EPR beams. The photon statistics of the teleportation output are determined and the correlation between the field information beta obtained in the teleportation process and the change in photon number is discussed. The results of the output photon statistics are applied to the transmission of a qbit encoded in the polarization of a single photon.

id: quant-ph/0104015
title: Intrinsic decoherence in atomic diffraction by standing light wave
authors: Stefano Mancini, Rodolfo Bonifacio
comments: 7 pages, ReVTeX file, 2 eps figures, to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B 34, 1909 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104015
abstract: We study the effects of time uncertainty in the interaction of atoms with a standing light wave. We discuss its physical origin and the possibility to observe intrinsic decoherence effects by measuring the atomic momentum distribution.

id: quant-ph/0104016
title: Quantum Key Distribution between N partners: optimal eavesdropping and Bell's inequalities
authors: Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 65 (2002) 012311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104016
abstract: Quantum secret-sharing protocols involving N partners (NQSS) are key distribution protocols in which Alice encodes her key into $N-1$ qubits, in such a way that all the other partners must cooperate in order to retrieve the key. On these protocols, several eavesdropping scenarios are possible: some partners may want to reconstruct the key without the help of the other ones, and consequently collaborate with an Eve that eavesdrops on the other partners' channels. For each of these scenarios, we give the optimal individual attack that the Eve can perform. In case of such an optimal attack, the authorized partners have a higher information on the key than the unauthorized ones if and only if they can violate a Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0104017
title: QED derived from the two-body interaction (1) Mapping to M-space
authors: Sarah B. M. Bell, John P. Cullerne, Bernard M. Diaz
comments: 29 pages, references updated - no other changes
journal: FOUND.PHYS.34(2),FEB.2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104017
abstract: We have shown in a previous paper that the Dirac bispinor can vary like a four-vector and that Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) can be reproduced with this form of behaviour.(1) Here, in part I of this paper, we show that QED with the same transformational behaviour also holds in an alternative space we call M-space. We use the four-vector behaviour to model the two-body interaction in M and show that this has similar physical properties to the usual model which it predicts. In part (2) of this paper(4) we use M-space to show that QED can be reduced to two simple rules for a two-body interaction.

id: quant-ph/0104018
title: QED derived from the two-body interaction (2) The derivation
authors: Sarah B. M. Bell, John P. Cullerne, Bernard M. Diaz
comments: 31 pages, references updated - no other changes
journal: FOUND.PHYS.34(2),FEB.2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104018
abstract: We have shown in a previous paper that the Dirac bispinor can vary like a four-vector and that Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) can be reproduced with this form of behaviour.(2) We have also shown in part I (3) of this paper, that QED with the same transformational behaviour also holds in a second space which we called M-space. Here we use M-space to show that QED can be reduced to two simple rules for a two-body interaction.

id: quant-ph/0104019
title: Kronecker product/Direct product/Tensor product in Quantum Information theory
authors: Z. S. Sazonova, Ranjit Singh
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104019
abstract: The properties and applications of kronecker product in quantum theory is studied thoroughly. The use of kronecker product in quantum information theory to get the exact spin Hamiltonian is given. The proof of non-commutativity of matrices, when kronecker product is used between them is given. It is shown that the non-commutative matrices after kronecker product are similar or they are similar matrices.

id: quant-ph/0104020
title: The dissipative dynamics of the field of two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model with Stark shift in dispersive approximation
authors: L. Zhou, H. S. Song, Y. X. Luo
comments: 8 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104020
abstract: We present the dissipative dynamics of the field of two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) with Stark shift in dispersive approximation and investigate the influence of dissipation on entanglement. We show the coherence properties of the field can be affected by the dissipative cavity when nonlinear two-photon process is involved.

id: quant-ph/0104021
title: Quantum Zeno tomography
authors: P. Facchi, Z. Hradil, G. Krenn, S. Pascazio, J. Rehacek
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 012110 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104021
abstract: We show that the resolution "per absorbed particle" of standard absorption tomography can be outperformed by a simple interferometric setup, provided that the different levels of "gray" in the sample are not uniformly distributed. The technique hinges upon the quantum Zeno effect and has been tested in numerical simulations. The scheme we propose could be implemented in experiments with UV-light, neutrons or X-rays.

id: quant-ph/0104022
title: Slow light propagation in trapped atomic quantum gases
authors: ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104022
abstract: We study semi-classical slow light propagation in trapped two level atomic quantum gases. The temperature dependent behaviors of both group velocity and transmissions are compared for low temperature Bose, Fermi, and Boltzman gases within the local density approximation for their spatial density profile.

id: quant-ph/0104023
title: Quantum computation by quantum-like systems
authors: M. A. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko, R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 12 pages, Latex
journal: Physics Letters A 288 (2001) 132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104023
abstract: Using a quantumlike description for light propagation in nonhomogeneous optical fibers, quantum information processing can be implemented by optical means. Quantum-like bits (qulbits) are associated to light modes in the optical fiber and quantum gates to segments of the fiber providing an unitary transformation of the mode structure along a space direction. Simulation of nonlinear quantum effects is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104024
title: Finite-precision measurement does not nullify the Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 052101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104024
abstract: It is proven that any hidden variable theory of the type proposed by Meyer [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 83}, 3751 (1999)], Kent [{\em ibid.} {\bf 83}, 3755 (1999)], and Clifton and Kent [Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A {\bf 456}, 2101 (2000)] leads to experimentally testable predictions that are in contradiction with those of quantum mechanics. Therefore, it is argued that the existence of dense Kochen-Specker-colorable sets must not be interpreted as a nullification of the physical impact of the Kochen-Specker theorem once the finite precision of real measurements is taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0104025
title: Perturbation Theory for Quantum Computation with Large Number of Qubits
authors: G.P. Berman, G.D. Doolen, D.I. Kamenev, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 8 pages RevTex including 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104025
abstract: We describe a new and consistent perturbation theory for solid-state quantum computation with many qubits. The errors in the implementation of simple quantum logic operations caused by non-resonant transitions are estimated. We verify our perturbation approach using exact numerical solution for relatively small (L=10) number of qubits. A preferred range of parameters is found in which the errors in processing quantum information are small. Our results are needed for experimental testing of scalable solid-state quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0104026
title: Universal Elementary Constituents of Potential Transformations Shifting Waves (Qualitative Theory)
authors: V. M. Chabanov, B. N. Zakhariev
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annalen der Physik, 6 (1997) 136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104026
abstract: It is shown that the potential perturbation that shifts a chosen standing wave in space is a block of potential barrier and well for every wave bump between neighbouring knots. The algorithms shifting the range of the primary localization of a chosen bound state in a potential well of finite width are as well applicable to the scattering functions if states of the continuous spectrum are considered as bound states normalized to unity but distributed on an infinite interval with vanishing density. The potential perturbations of the same type on the half-axis concentrate the scattering wave at the origin, thus creating a bound state embedded into the continuous spectrum (zero width resonance). It is an improved version of paper: Annalen der Physik, 6 (1997) 136.

id: quant-ph/0104027
title: Semicausal operations are semilocalizable
authors: T. Eggeling, D. Schlingemann, R.F. Werner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104027
abstract: We prove a conjecture by DiVincenzo, which in the terminology of Preskill et al. [quant-ph/0102043] states that ``semicausal operations are semilocalizable''. That is, we show that any operation on the combined system of Alice and Bob, which does not allow Bob to send messages to Alice, can be represented as an operation by Alice, transmitting a quantum particle to Bob, and a local operation by Bob. The proof is based on the uniqueness of the Stinespring representation for a completely positive map. We sketch some of the problems in transferring these concepts to the context of relativistic quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0104028
title: Nonclassical radiation from diamond nanocrystals
authors: Alexios Beveratos, Rosa Brouri, Thierry Gacoin, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Philippe Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, revised version, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104028
abstract: The quantum properties of the fluorescence light emitted by diamond nanocrystals containing a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) colored center is investigated. We have observed photon antibunching with very low background light. This system is therefore a very good candidate for the production of single photon on demand. In addition, we have measured larger NV center lifetime in nanocrystals than in the bulk, in good agreement with a simple quantum electrodynamical model.

id: quant-ph/0104029
title: Comment on `Quantum-Anti-Zeno Paradox'
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 3pp LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104029
abstract: One can reduce the involved derivation of Balachandran and Roy of their `anti-Zeno' effect [Phys.Rev.Lett. 84, 4019 (2000)] to the derivation of standard Zeno effect. The mechanism of what the authors call `anti-Zeno' effect is a dynamic version of Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0104030
title: Efficient Scheme for Initializing a Quantum Register with an Arbitrary Superposed State
authors: Gui-Lu Long, Yang Sun
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A64 (2001) 014303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104030
abstract: Preparation of a quantum register is an important step in quantum computation and quantum information processing. It is straightforward to build a simple quantum state such as $|i_1 i_2 ... i_n\ket$ with $i_j$ being either 0 or 1, but is a non-trivial task to construct an {\it arbitrary} superposed quantum state. In this Paper, we present a scheme that can most generally initialize a quantum register with an arbitrary superposition of basis states. Implementation of this scheme requires $O(Nn^2)$ standard 1- and 2-bit gate operations, {\it without introducing additional quantum bits}. Application of the scheme in some special cases is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104031
title: Multi-directional higher-order amplitude squeezing
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, text improved, references added, accepted in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104031
abstract: Fan-even K-quantum nonlinear coherent states are introduced and higher-order amplitude squeezing is investigated in such states. It is shown that for a given K the lowest order in which an amplitude component can be squeezed is 2K and the squeezing appears simultaneously in K directions separated successively in phase by \pi/K.

id: quant-ph/0104032
title: Experimental Tests for Stochastic Reduction Models
authors: Dorje Brody, Lane Hughston
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104032
abstract: Stochastic models for quantum state reduction give rise to statistical laws that are in many respects in agreement with those of standard quantum measurement theory. Here we construct a counterexample involving a Hamiltonian with degenerate eigenvalues such that the statistical predictions of stochastic reduction models differ from the predictions of quantum measurement theory. An idealised experiment is proposed whereby the validity of these predictions can be put to the test.

id: quant-ph/0104033
title: The Structure of the Multiverse
authors: David Deutsch
comments: 21 pages, 3 illustrations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104033
abstract: The structure of the multiverse is determined by information flow.

id: quant-ph/0104034
title: Simple Pulses for Universal Quantum Computation with a Heisenberg ABAB Chain
authors: Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 3 pages including 2 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104034
abstract: Recently Levy has shown that quantum computation can be performed using an ABAB.. chain of spin-1/2 systems with nearest-neighbor Heisenberg interactions. Levy notes that all necessary elementary computational `gates' can be achieved by using spin-resonance techniques involving modulating the spin-spin interaction strength at high frequency. Here we note that, as an alternative to that approach, it is possible to perform the elementary gates with simple, non-oscillatory pulses.

id: quant-ph/0104035
title: Observation of the Quantum Zeno and Anti-Zeno effects in an unstable system
authors: M. C. Fischer, B. Gutierrez-Medina, M. G. Raizen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104035
abstract: We report the first observation of the Quantum Zeno and Anti-Zeno effects in an unstable system. Cold sodium atoms are trapped in a far-detuned standing wave of light that is accelerated for a controlled duration. For a large acceleration the atoms can escape the trapping potential via tunneling. Initially the number of trapped atoms shows strong non-exponential decay features, evolving into the characteristic exponential decay behavior. We repeatedly measure the number of atoms remaining trapped during the initial period of non-exponential decay. Depending on the frequency of measurements we observe a decay that is suppressed or enhanced as compared to the unperturbed system.

id: quant-ph/0104036
title: The Quantum State of an Ideal Propagating Laser Field
authors: S.J. van Enk, Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, to appear in PRL. For an extended version see quant-ph/0111157
journal: PRL 88, 027902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104036
abstract: We give a quantum information-theoretic description of an ideal propagating CW laser field and reinterpret typical quantum-optical experiments in light of this. In particular we show that contrary to recent claims [T. Rudolph and B. C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 077903 (2001)], a conventional laser can be used for quantum teleportation with continuous variables and for generating continuous-variable entanglement. Optical coherence is not required, but phase coherence is. We also show that coherent states play a priveleged role in the description of laser light.

id: quant-ph/0104037
title: A Systematic Algorithm for Quantum Boolean Circuits Construction
authors: I. M. Tsai, S. Y. Kuo
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104037
abstract: To build a general-purpose quantum computer, it is crucial for the quantum devices to implement classical boolean logic. A straightforward realization of quantum boolean logic is to use auxiliary qubits as intermediate storage. This inefficient implementation causes a large number of auxiliary qubits to be used. In this paper, we have derived a systematic way of realizing any general m-to-n bit combinational boolean logic using elementary quantum gates. Our approach transforms the m-to-n bit classical mapping into a t-bit unitary quantum operation with minimum number of auxiliary qubits, then a variation of Toffoli gate is used as the basic building block to construct the unitary operation. Finally, each of these building blocks can be decomposed into one-bit rotation and two-bit control-U gates. The efficiency of the network is taken into consideration by formulating it as a constrained set partitioning problem.

id: quant-ph/0104038
title: Second order quantum decoherence in the boson system
authors: D.L. Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, revtex, corrected some typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104038
abstract: The second order quantum decoherence (SOQDC)is proposed as a novel description for the loss of quantum coherence only reflected by second order quantum correlations. By calculating the two-time correlation function, the phenomenon of SOQDC is studied in details for a simple model, a two boson system interacting with a reservoir composed of one or many bosons. The second order quantum decoherence effects can be observed in the sketched cavity QED experiment.

id: quant-ph/0104039
title: A Practical Scheme for Entanglement Concentration
authors: Zhi Zhao, Jian-Wei Pan, M.S.Zhan
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure (to be published in Phy.Rev.A)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104039
abstract: We present a realistic purification scheme for pure non-maximally entangled states. In the scheme, Alice and Bob at two distant parties first start with two shared but less entangled photon pairs to produce a conditional four-photon GHZ state, then perform a 45-degree polarization measurement onto one of the two photons at each party such that the remaining two photons are projected onto a maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0104040
title: Effects of twin-beam squashed light on a three-level atom
authors: L.K. Thomsen, H.M. Wiseman
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: PRA 64, 043805 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104040
abstract: An electro-optical feedback loop can make in-loop light (squashed light) which produces a photocurrent with noise below the standard quantum limit (such as squeezed light). We investigate the effect of squashed light interacting with a three-level atom in the cascade configuration and compare it to the effects produced by squeezed light and classical noise. It turns out that one master equation can be formulated for all three types of light and that this unified formalism can also be applied to the evolution of a two-level atom. We show that squashed light does not mimic all aspects of squeezed light, and in particular, it does not produce the characteristic linear intensity dependence of the population of the upper-most level of the cascade three-level atom. Nevertheless, it has nonclassical transient effects in the de-excitation.

id: quant-ph/0104041
title: Ion-trap quantum logic using long-wavelength radiation
authors: Florian Mintert, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 4 pages, no figures, replaced with published version (wording and grammar have been slightly changed)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 257904 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104041
abstract: A quantum information processor is proposed that combines experimental techniques and technology successfully demonstrated either in nuclear magnetic resonance experiments or with trapped ions. An additional inhomogenenous magnetic field applied to an ion trap i) shifts individual ionic resonances (qubits), making them distinguishable by frequency, and, ii) mediates the coupling between internal and external degrees of freedom of trapped ions. This scheme permits one to individually address and coherently manipulate ions confined in an electrodynamic trap using radiation in the radiofrequency or microwave regime.

id: quant-ph/0104042
title: Magnetic Dipoles and Quantum Coherence in Muscle Contraction
authors: Kuniyuki Hatori, Hajime Honda, Koichiro Matsuno
comments: Matsuno is Corresponding Author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104042
abstract: An actin filament contacting myosin molecules as a functional unit of muscle contraction induces magnetic dipoles along the filament when ATP molecules to be hydrolyzed are available there. The induced magnetic dipoles are coherent over the entire filament, though they are fluctuating altogether as constantly being subject to the ambient thermal agitations.

id: quant-ph/0104043
title: Moller operators and Lippmann-Schwinger equations for step-like potentials
authors: A. D. Baute, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 15 pages, 1 inlined figure, iopart.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104043
abstract: The Moller operators and the asociated Lippman-Schwinger equations obtained from different partitionings of the Hamiltonian for a step-like potential barrier are worked out, compared and related.

id: quant-ph/0104044
title: Conditional generation of sub-Poissonian light from two-mode squeezed vacuum via balanced homodyne detection on idler mode
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 053817 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104044
abstract: A simple scheme for conditional generation of nonclassical light with sub-Poissonian photon-number statistics is proposed. The method utilizes entanglement of signal and idler modes in two-mode squeezed vacuum state generated in optical parametric amplifier. A quadrature component of the idler mode is measured in balanced homodyne detector and only those experimental runs where the absolute value of the measured quadrature is higher than certain threshold are accepted. If the threshold is large enough then the conditional output state of signal mode exhibits reduction of photon-number fluctuations below the coherent-state level.

id: quant-ph/0104045
title: Comments on discrete time in quantum mechanics
authors: S. Bruce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104045
abstract: The possibility that time can be regarded as a discrete parameter is re-examined. We study the dynamics of the free particle and find in some cases superluminal propagation.

id: quant-ph/0104046
title: Generalized quantum measurement
authors: Ting Yu, Ian C. Percival
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX, no figures, title changed
journal: Phys. Lett. A 294 (2002) 59
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104046
abstract: We overcome one of Bell's objections to `quantum measurement' by generalizing the definition to include systems outside the laboratory. According to this definition a {\sl generalized quantum measurement} takes place when the value of a classical variable is influenced significantly by an earlier state of a quantum system. A generalized quantum measurement can then take place in equilibrium systems, provided the classical motion is chaotic. This paper deals with this classical aspect of quantum measurement, assuming that the Heisenberg cut between the quantum dynamics and the classical dynamics is made at a very small scale. For simplicity, a gas with collisions is modelled by an `Arnold gas'.

id: quant-ph/0104047
title: Experimental Four-photon Entanglement and High-fidelity Teleportation
authors: Jian-Wei Pan, Matthew Daniell, Sara Gasparoni, Gregor Weihs, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4435-4438 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104047
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate observation of highly pure four-photon GHZ entanglement produced by parametric down-conversion and a projective measurement. At the same time this also demonstrates teleportation of entanglement with very high purity. Not only does the achieved high visibility enable various novel tests of quantum nonlocality, it also opens the possibility to experimentally investigate various quantum computation and communication schemes with linear optics. Our technique can in principle be used to produce entanglement of arbitrarily high order or, equivalently, teleportation and entanglement swapping over multiple stages.

id: quant-ph/0104048
title: Solving Random Satisfiability Problems with Quantum Computers
authors: Tad Hogg
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104048
abstract: Quantum computer algorithms can exploit the structure of random satisfiability problems. This paper extends a previous empirical evaluation of such an algorithm and gives an approximate asymptotic analysis accounting for both the average and variation of amplitudes among search states with the same costs. The analysis predicts good performance, on average, for a variety of problems including those near a phase transition associated with a high concentration of hard cases. Based on empirical evaluation for small problems, modifying the algorithm in light of this analysis improves its performance. The algorithm improves on both GSAT, a commonly used conventional heuristic, and quantum algorithms ignoring problem structure.

id: quant-ph/0104049
title: Controversy about quantum time decay
authors: W.O. Amrein
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104049
abstract: In the recent physics literature there have appeared contradictory statements concerning the behaviour of scattering solutions of the 3-dimensional Schroedinger equation at large times. We clarify the situation and point out that the issue was rigorously resolved in the mathematics literature.

id: quant-ph/0104050
title: Separability Criterion for all bipartite Gaussian States
authors: G. Giedke, B. Kraus, M. Lewenstein, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure (.eps)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 167904 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104050
abstract: We provide a necessary and sufficient condition for separability of Gaussian states of bipartite systems of arbitrarily many modes. The condition provides an operational criterion since it can be checked by simple computation. Moreover, it allows us to find a pure product-state decomposition of any given separable Gaussian state. Our criterion is independent of the one based on partial transposition, and is strictly stronger.

id: quant-ph/0104051
title: A Hamiltonian for the description of a non-relativistic spin-1/2 free particle
authors: S. Bruce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104051
abstract: We propose a Hamiltonian for a nonrelativistic spin 1/2 \QTR{it}{free} particle (e.g. an electron) and find that it contains information of its internal degrees of freedom in the rest coordinate system. We comment on the dynamical symmetry associated with the electron \QTR{it}{Zitterbewegung}.

id: quant-ph/0104052
title: Emergence of classicality in non relativistic quantum mechanics through gravitational self-interaction
authors: Sergio De Filippo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104052
abstract: An explicit dynamical model for non relativistic quantum mechanics with an effective gravitational interaction is proposed, which, as being well defined, allows in principle for the evaluation of every physical quantity. Its non unitary dynamics results from a unitary one in a space with twice as many degrees of freedom as the ordinary ones. It exhibits a threshold for the emergence of classical behavior for bodies of ordinary density on rather long times or instantaneously, respectively at around 10^11 or 10^20 proton masses.

id: quant-ph/0104053
title: Quantum Formulas: a Lower Bound and Simulation
authors: Vwani P. Roychowdhury, Farrokh Vatan
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX, 6 figures. Final and extended version of quant-ph/9903042. To appear in SIAM Journal on Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104053
abstract: We show that Nechiporuk's method for proving lower bounds for Boolean formulas can be extended to the quantum case. This leads to an $\Omega(n^2 / \log^2 n)$ lower bound for quantum formulas computing an explicit function. The only known previous explicit lower bound for quantum formulas states that the majority function does not have a linear-size quantum formula. We also show that quantum formulas can be simulated by Boolean circuits of almost the same size.

id: quant-ph/0104054
title: Entanglement Concentration of Individual Photon Pairs via Linear Optical Logic
authors: Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 4, 196 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104054
abstract: We propose a scheme for concentrating nonmaximally pure and mixed polarization-entangled state of individual photon pairs. The scheme uses only simple linear optical elements and may be feasible within current optical technology.

id: quant-ph/0104055
title: Stochastic Noise as a Source of Decoherence in a Solid State Quantum Computer
authors: C.J.Wellard, L.C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104055
abstract: We examine a stochastic noise process that has a decohering effect on the average evolution of qubits in the quantum register of the solid state quantum computer proposed by Kane. We consider the effects of this process on the single qubit operations necessary to perform quantum logical gates and derive an expression for the fidelity of these gates in this system. We then calculate an upper bound on the level of this stochastic noise tolerable in a workable quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0104056
title: Spontaneous Decay in the Presence of Absorbing Media
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 32 pages, 15 eps figures, contribution to Recent Research Developments in Optics, to be published by Research Signpost
journal: Recent Research Developments in Optics, Vol. 1 (Research Signpost, Trivandrum, India, 2001) pp.. 225-264
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104056
abstract: After giving a summary of the basic-theoretical concept of quantization of the electromagnetic field in the presence of dispersing and absorbing (macroscopic) bodies, their effect on spontaneous decay of an excited atom is studied. Various configurations such as bulk material, planar half space media, spherical cavities, and microspheres are considered. In particular, the influence of material absorption on the local-field correction, the decay rate, the line shift, and the emission pattern are examined. Further, the interplay between radiative losses and losses due to material absorption is analyzed. Finally, the possibility of generating entangled states of two atoms coupled by a microsphere-assisted field is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104057
title: Nearly ideal binary communication in squeezed channels
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 6 figs. Accepted for pubblication PRA
journal: Physical Review A vol 4 014304 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104057
abstract: We analyze the effect of squeezing the channel in binary communication based on Gaussian states. We show that for coding on pure states, squeezing increases the detection probability at fixed size of the strategy, actually saturating the optimal bound already for moderate signal energy. Using Neyman-Pearson lemma for fuzzy hypothesis testing we are able to analyze also the case of mixed states, and to find the optimal amount of squeezing that can be effectively employed. It results that optimally squeezed channels are robust against signal-mixing, and largely improve the strategy power by comparison with coherent ones.

id: quant-ph/0104058
title: The trumping relation and the structure of the bipartite entangled states
authors: Sumit Daftuar, Matthew Klimesh
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104058
abstract: The majorization relation has been shown to be useful in classifying which transformations of jointly held quantum states are possible using local operations and classical communication. In some cases, a direct transformation between two states is not possible, but it becomes possible in the presence of another state (known as a catalyst); this situation is described mathematically by the trumping relation, an extension of majorization. The structure of the trumping relation is not nearly as well understood as that of majorization. We give an introduction to this subject and derive some new results. Most notably, we show that the dimension of the required catalyst is in general unbounded; there is no integer $k$ such that it suffices to consider catalysts of dimension $k$ or less in determining which states can be catalyzed into a given state. We also show that almost all bipartite entangled states are potentially useful as catalysts.

id: quant-ph/0104059
title: Anomalous doublets of states in a PT symmetric quantum model
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Geza Levai, Pinaki Roy, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: 13 pages, re-submitted to Phys. Lett. A, thoroughly revised
journal: Physics Letters A 290 (2001) 249 - 254
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104059
abstract: We complexify one of the Natanzon's exactly solvable potentials in PT symmetric manner and discover that it supports the pairs of bound states with the same number of nodal zeros. This could indicate that the Sturm Liouville oscillation theorem does not admit an immediate generalization.

id: quant-ph/0104060
title: Dynamic disquantization of Dirac equation
authors: Yuri A. Rylov
comments: 44 pages, 0 figures, some correction and additional explanations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104060
abstract: Classical model S_dc of Dirac particle S_D is constructed. S_D is the dynamic system described by the Dirac equation. Its classical analog S_dc is described by a system of ordinary differential equations, containing the quantum constant h as a parameter. Dynamic equations for S_dc are determined by the Dirac equation uniquely. Both dynamic systems S_D and S_dc appear to be nonrelativistic. One succeeded in transforming nonrelativistic dynamic system S_dc into relativistic one S_dcr. The dynamic system S_dcr appears to be a two-particle structure (special case of a relativistic rotator). It explains freely such properties of S_D as spin and magnetic moment, which are strange for pointlike structure. The rigidity function f_r(a), describing rotational part of total mass as a function of the radius $a$ of rotator, has been calculated for S_dcr. For investigation of S_D and construction of S_dc one uses new dynamic methods: dynamic quantization and dynamic disquantization. These relativistic pure dynamic procedures do not use principles of quantum mechanics (QM). They generalize and replace conventional quantization and transition to classical approximation. Totality of these methods forms the model conception of quantum phenomena (MCQP). Technique of MCQP is more subtle and effective, than conventional methods of QM. MCQP relates to conventional QM, much as the statistical physics relates to thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0104061
title: Efficient Implementation and the Product State Representation of Numbers
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: Paragraph in page proof for Phys. Rev. A revised
journal: Phys. Rev. 64A, 052310 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104061
abstract: The relation between the requirement of efficient implementability and the product state representation of numbers is examined. Numbers are defined to be any model of the axioms of number theory or arithmetic. Efficient implementability (EI) means that the basic arithmetic operations are physically implementable and the space-time and thermodynamic resources needed to carry out the implementations are polynomial in the range of numbers considered. Different models of numbers are described to show the independence of both EI and the product state representation from the axioms. The relation between EI and the product state representation is examined. It is seen that the condition of a product state representation does not imply EI. Arguments used to refute the converse implication, EI implies a product state representation, seem reasonable; but they are not conclusive. Thus this implication remains an open question.

id: quant-ph/0104062
title: Revisiting Hardy's Paradox: Counterfactual Statements, Real Measurements, Entanglement and Weak Values
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Alonso Botero, Sandu Popescu, Benni Reznik, Jeff Tollaksen
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104062
abstract: Classical-realistic analysis of entangled systems have lead to retrodiction paradoxes, which ordinarily have been dismissed on the grounds of counter-factuality. Instead, we claim that such paradoxes point to a deeper logical structure inherent to quantum mechanics, which is naturally described in the language of weak values, and which is accessible experimentally via weak measurements. Using as an illustration, a gedanken-experiment due to Hardy\cite{hardy}, we show that there is in fact an exact numerical coincidence between a) a pair of classically contradictory assertions about the locations of an electron and a positron, and b) the results of weak measurements of their location. The internal consistency of these results is due to the novel way by which quantum mechanics "resolves" the paradox: first, by allowing for two distinguishable manifestations of how the electron and positron can be at the same location: either as single particles or as a pair; and secondly, by allowing these properties to take either sign. In particular, we discuss the experimental meaning of a {\em negative} number of electron-positron pairs.

id: quant-ph/0104063
title: A Quantum-Mechanical Explanation of the Collapse of the Wave Function
authors: Benjamin Ross
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104063
abstract: The quantum field of a single particle is expressed as the sum of the particle's ordinary wave function and the vacuum fluctuations. An exact quantum-field calculation shows that the squared amplitude of this field sums, at any time, to a delta function representing a discrete corpuscle at one point and zero everywhere else. The peak of the delta function is located at the point where the vacuum fluctuations interfere constructively with the ordinary wave function. Similarly, the collapsed wave function after a measurement of an observable is determined by interference between the initial wave function and vacuum fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0104064
title: Observation of Image Transfer and Phase Conjugation in Stimulated Down-Conversion
authors: P.H. Souto Ribeiro, D. P. Caetano, M. P. Almeida, J. A. Huguenin, B. Coutinho dos Santos, A. Z. Khoury
comments: Submitted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104064
abstract: We observe experimentally the transfer of angular spectrum and image formation in the process of stimulated parametric down-conversion. Images and interference patterns can be transferred either from the pump or the auxiliary laser beams to the stimulated down-converted one. The stimulated field propagates as the complex conjugate of the auxiliary laser. The phase conjugation is observed through intensity pattern measurements.

id: quant-ph/0104065
title: Are all noisy quantum states obtained from pure ones?
authors: L. Henderson, N. Linden, S. Popescu
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104065
abstract: We ask what type of mixed quantum states can arise when a number of separated parties start by sharing a pure quantum state and then this pure state becomes contaminated by noise. We show that not all mixed states arise in this way. This is even the case if the separated parties actively try to degrade their initial pure state by arbitrary local actions and classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0104066
title: Mechanical interpretation of the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: V. P. Dmitriyev
comments: 3 pages; see also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104066
abstract: The substratum for physics can be seen microscopically as an ideal fluid pierced in all directions by the straight vortex filaments. Small disturbances of an isolated filament are considered. The Klein-Gordon equation without mass corresponds to elastic stretching of the filament. The wave function has the meaning of the curve's position vector. The mass part of the Klein-Gordon equation describes the rotation of the helical curve about the screw axis due to the hydrodynamic self-induction of the bent vortex filament.

id: quant-ph/0104067
title: Hidden Variables, Statistical Mechanics and the Early Universe
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 14 pages; 3 figures; to appear in 'Chance in Physics', eds. J. Bricmont et al. (Springer 2001)
journal: 'Chance in Physics: Foundations and Perspectives', eds. J. Bricmont et al. (Springer, 2001), pp. 165-181.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104067
abstract: It is argued that our universe happens to be in a state of statistical equilibrium at the hidden-variable level, such that nonlocality is masked by quantum noise. To account for this 'quantum equilibrium', we outline a subquantum statistical mechanics in configuration space, and an H-theorem analogous to the classical coarse-graining H-theorem. Foundational issues in statistical mechanics are addressed, and an alternative explanation based on 'typicality' is criticised. An estimate is given for the relaxation timescale, and an illustrative numerical simulation is provided. Assuming the universe began in quantum non-equilibrium, we sketch a scenario in which relaxation is suppressed at very early times by the rapid expansion of space, raising the possibility that deviations from quantum theory could survive to the present day for relic cosmological particles that decoupled sufficiently early. It is concluded that quantum noise is a remnant of the big bang and, like the microwave background, should be probed experimentally. Possible tests with relic particles are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104068
title: Optimally Conclusive Discrimination of Non-orthogonal Entangled States Locally
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Dong Yang
comments: 4 pages, no figure, revtex. few typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104068
abstract: We consider one copy of a quantum system prepared with equal prior probability in one of two non-orthogonal entangled states of multipartite distributed among separated parties. We demonstrate that these two states can be optimally distinguished in the sense of conclusive discrimination by local operations and classical communications(LOCC) alone. And this proves strictly the conjecture that Virmani et.al. [8] confirmed numerically and analytically. Generally, the optimal protocol requires local POVM operations which are explicitly constructed. The result manifests that the distinguishable information is obtained only and completely at the last operation and all prior ones give no information about that state.

id: quant-ph/0104069
title: Continuous-variable and hybrid quantum gates
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 5 pages, no figures, minor changed, revised version submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34, 9577-9584 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104069
abstract: We provide several schemes to construct the continuous-variable SWAP gate and present a Hermitian generalized many-body continuous controlled^n-NOT gate. We introduce and study the hybrid controlled-NOT gate and controlled-SWAP gate, and physical realizations of them are discussed in trapped-ion systems. These continuous-variable and hybrid quantum gates may be used in the corresponding continuous-variable and hybrid quantum computations.

id: quant-ph/0104070
title: Entanglement of Orbital Angular Momentum States of Photons
authors: Alois Mair, Alipasha Vaziri, Gregor Weihs, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 figures
journal: Nature, Vol.412, 3123-316 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104070
abstract: So far experimental confirmation of entanglement has been restricted to qubits, i.e. two-state quantum systems including recent realization of three- and four-qubit entanglements. Yet, an ever increasing body of theoretical work calls for entanglement in quantum system of higher dimensions. Here we report the first realization of multi-dimensional entanglement exploiting the orbital angular momentum of photons, which are states of the electromagnetic field with phase singularities (doughnut modes). The properties of such states could be of importance for the efforts in the field of quantum computation and quantum communication. For example, quantum cryptography with higher alphabets could enable one to increase the information flux through the communication channels.

id: quant-ph/0104071
title: Supersymmetric Dynamical Invariants
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Plain Latex, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys. A34 (2001) 4493-4506
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104071
abstract: We address the problem of identifying the (nonstationary) quantum systems that admit supersymmetric dynamical invariants. In particular, we give a general expression for the bosonic and fermionic partner Hamiltonians. Due to the supersymmetric nature of the dynamical invariant the solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for the partner Hamiltonians can be easily mapped to one another. We use this observation to obtain a class of exactly solvable time-dependent Schr\"odinger equations. As applications of our method, we construct classes of exactly solvable time-dependent generalized harmonic oscillators and spin Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0104072
title: Distillability Criterion for all Bipartite Gaussian States
authors: G. Giedke, L.-M. Duan, J.I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 8 pages, corrected some typos, final version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 1, 79 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104072
abstract: We prove that all inseparable Gaussian states of two modes can be distilled into maximally entangled pure states by local operations. Using this result we show that a bipartite Gaussian state of arbitrarily many modes can be distilled if and only if its partial transpose is not positive.

id: quant-ph/0104073
title: Quantum Fluctuations of Light: A Modern Perspective on Wave/Particle Duality
authors: H. J. Carmichael
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures, paper presnted at the symposium ``One Hundred Years of the Quantum: From Max Planck to Entanglement,'' University of Puget Sound, October 29 and 30, 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104073
abstract: We review studies of the fluctuations of light made accessible by the invention of the laser and the strong interactions realized in cavity QED experiments. Photon antibunching advocating the discrete (particles), is contrasted with amplitude squeezing which speaks of the continuous (waves). The tension between particles and waves is demonstrated by a recent experiment which combines the measurement strategies used to observe these nonclassical behaviors of light [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3149 (2000)].

id: quant-ph/0104074
title: Quantum Diffusion of H/Ni(111) through the Monte Carlo Wave Function Formalism
authors: S. C. Badescu, S. C. Ying, T. Ala-Nissila
comments: In press at Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys Rev Lett 86(22), 5092(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104074
abstract: We consider a quantum system coupled to a dissipative background with many degrees of freedom using the Monte Carlo Wave Function method. Instead of dealing with a density matrix which can be very high-dimensional, the method consists of integrating a stochastic Schrodinger equation with a non-hermitian damping term in the evolution operator, and with random quantum jumps. The method is applied to the diffusion of hydrogen on the Ni(111) surface below 100 K. We show that the recent experimental diffusion data for this system can be understood through an interband activation process, followed by quantum tunnelling.

id: quant-ph/0104075
title: Attacks on Symmetric Quantum Coin-Tossing Protocols
authors: Boaz Leslau
comments: 11 pages 1 figure,equations (29) and (30) changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104075
abstract: We suggest an attack on a symmetric non-ideal quantum coin-tossing protocol suggested by Mayers Salvail and Chiba-Kohno. The analysis of the attack shows that the protocol is insecure.

id: quant-ph/0104076
title: An analysis of a two-atom double-slit experiment based on environment-induced measurements
authors: Christian Schoen, Almut Beige
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, minor changes, version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 023806 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104076
abstract: To investigate the effect of a classical environment on a quantum mechanical system we consider two two-level atoms in a free radiation field in the presence of a screen. By assuming that the screen causes continuous ideal measurements on the free radiation field we derive a quantum jump description for the state of the atoms. Our results are consistent with the master equations for dipole interacting atoms, but give more insight in the time evolution of a single system. To illustrate this we derive a necessary and sufficient criterion for interference in a two-atom double-slit experiment and analyse bunching in the statistics of photons emitted in a certain direction.

id: quant-ph/0104077
title: Space of State Vectors in PT Symmetrical Quantum Mechanics
authors: G.S.Japaridze
comments: Revised version, explicit expressions for average values and probability amplitude added
journal: J.Phys.A35:1709-1718,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104077
abstract: Space of states of PT symmetrical quantum mechanics is examined. Requirement that eigenstates with different eigenvalues must be orthogonal leads to the conclusion that eigenfunctions belong to the space with an indefinite metric. The self consistent expressions for the probability amplitude and average value of operator are suggested. Further specification of space of state vectors yield the superselection rule, redefining notion of the superposition principle. The expression for the probability current density, satisfying equation of continuity and vanishing for the bound state, is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0104078
title: Time Interval Operators
authors: M. Ruzzi, D. Galetti
comments: 14 pages, subm. to J. Phys. A Changed abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104078
abstract: In this work we will advance farther along a line previously developed concerning our proposal of a time interval operator, on finite dimensional spaces. The time interval operator is Hermitian, and its eigenvalues are time values with a precise and interesting role on the dynamics. With the help of the Discrete Phase Space Formalism (DPSF) previously developed, we show that the time interval operator is the complementary pair of the Hamiltonian. From that, a simple system is proposed as a quantum clock. The only restriction is that our results do not apply to all possible Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0104079
title: Comments on the Aharonov-Casher effect
authors: S. Bruce
comments: To appear in Physica Scripta (2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104079
abstract: We study the basic requirements for neutron confinement in the framework of some 3-D Aharonov-Casher configurations.

id: quant-ph/0104080
title: Law of Excluded Quantum Gambling Strategies
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104080
abstract: We introduce and analyze a quantum analogue of the Law of Excluded Gambling Strategies of Classical Decision Theory by the definition of different kind of quantum casinos. The necessity of keeping into account entaglement (by the way we give a staightforward generalization of Schmidt's entanglement measure) forces us to adopt the general algebraic language of Quantum Probability Theory whose essential points are reviewed. The Mathematica code of two packages simulating, respectively, classical and quantum gambling is included. The deep link existing between the censorship of winning quantum gambling strategies and the central notion of Quantum Algorithmic Information Theory, namely quantum algorithmic randomness (by the way we introduce and discard the naive noncommutative generalization of the original Kolmogorov definition), is analyzed

id: quant-ph/0104081
title: The hidden cost of quantum teleportation and remote state preparation
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: We introduce remote state preparation as equivalent to the ontic aspect of quantum teleportation, as regards the hidden cost. This frees our discussion from the epistemological difficulty of characterizing the unknown quantum state; 3 new references; 4 pages, no figures, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104081
abstract: The amount of information transferred during standard quantum teleportation or remote state preparation is equal to the preparation information of the transmitted state, rather than the classical communication required by respective protocol. This is shown by noting that the information required to specify the operation that verifies the transmitted state is identical to the preparation information, at the given level of precision m (in bits). Depending on the resolution of the projective Hilbert space, the preparation information can be made arbitrarily precise and hence indefinitely larger than the classical communication cost. Therefore, the classical communication is insufficient to account for the transfer of preparation information, which is then attributed to the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen channel. Some fundamental repercussions for relativistic quantum information processing are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104082
title: A Quantum Search Algorithm for a Specified Number of Targets
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: 12 pages including 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104082
abstract: The quantum search algorithm of Chen and Diao, which finds with certainty a single target item in an unsorted database, is modified so as to be capable of searching for an arbitrary specified number of target items. If the number of targets, nu_0, is a power of four, the new algorithm will with certainty find one of the targets in a database of n items using (1/2)(3(N/nu_0)^{log_base_4(3)}-1) \approx (1/2)(3(N/nu_0)^{0.7925}-1) oracle calls, where N is the smallest power of four greater than or equal to n. If nu_0 is not a power of four, the algorithm will, with a probability of at least one-half, find one of the targets using no more than (1/2)(9(N/nu)^{log_base_4(3)}-1) calls, where nu is the smallest power of four greater than or equal to nu_0.

id: quant-ph/0104083
title: Thermodynamics of Coherent States and Black Hole Entropy
authors: A.G.Bashkirov, A.D.Sukhanov
comments: LaTeX2e, 7 pages. Reported on Intern.School on Non-Extensive Thermodynamics and Physical Applications, NEXT2001, Sardinia, May 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104083
abstract: Entropy and temperature of a system in a coherent state are naturally defined on a base of a density matrix of the system. As an example, entropy and temperature are evaluated for coherent states of a harmonic oscillator and quantum field described by the Klein--Gordon--Fock equation with a source term. It is shown, in particular, that the temperature of the coherent oscillator in a ground state coincides with the effective temperature of a harmonic oscillator being in contact with a heat bath (Bloch formula) when the bath temperature tends to zero. The Bekenstein--Hawking entropy of a black hole can also be interpreted as an entropy of coherent states of a physical vacuum in the vicinity of a horizon surface.

id: quant-ph/0104084
title: An ultra-sensitive pulsed balanced homodyne detector: Application to time-domain quantum measurements
authors: H. Hansen, T. Aichele, C. Hettich, P. Lodahl, A. I. Lvovsky, J. Mlynek, S. Schiller
comments: 3 pages, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters 26, 1430 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104084
abstract: A pulsed balanced homodyne detector has been developed for precise measurements of electric field quadratures of pulsed optical quantum states. A high level of common mode suppression (> 85 dB) and low electronic noise (730 electrons per pulse) provide a signal to noise ratio of 14 dB for the measurement of the quantum noise of individual pulses. Measurements at repetition rates up to 1 MHz are possible. As a test, quantum tomography of the coherent state is performed and the Wigner function and the density matrix are reconstructed with a 99.5% fidelity. The detection system can also be used for ultrasensitive balanced detection in cw mode, e.g. for weak absorption measurements.

id: quant-ph/0104085
title: Programming physical realizations of quantum computers
authors: Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen, Anthony Hams, Seiji Miyashita, Keiji Saito
comments: 18 pages, no figures, see also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104085
abstract: We study effects of the physical realization of quantum computers on their logical operation. Through simulation of physical models of quantum computer hardware, we analyze the difficulties that are encountered in programming physical realizations of quantum computers. Examples of logically identical implementations of the controlled-NOT operation and Grover's database search algorithm are used to demonstrate that the results of a quantum computation are unstable with respect to the physical realization of the quantum computer. We discuss the origin of these instabilities and discuss possibilities to overcome this, for practical purposes, fundamental limitation of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0104086
title: Delocalization border and onset of chaos in a model of quantum computation
authors: G.P.Berman, F.Borgonovi, F.M.Izrailev, V.I.Tsifrinovich
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 056226 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104086
abstract: We study the properties of spectra and eigenfunctions for a chain of $1/2- $spins (qubits) in an external time-dependent magnetic field, and under the conditions of non-selective excitation (when the amplitude of the magnetic field is large). This model is known as a possible candidate for experimental realization of quantum computation. We present the theory for finding delocalization transition and show that for the interaction between nearest qubits, the transition is very different from that to quantum chaos. We explain this phenomena by showing that in the considered region of parameters our model is close to an integrable one. According to a general opinion, the threshold for the onset of quantum chaos due to the interqubit interaction decreases with an increase of the number of qubits. Contrary to this expectation, for a magnetic field with constant gradient we have found that chaos border does not depend on the number of qubits. We give analytical estimates which explain this effect, together with numerical data supporting our analysis. Random models with long-range interactions are studied as well. In particular, we show that in this case the delocalization and quantum chaos borders coincide.

id: quant-ph/0104087
title: Experimental realization of quantum games on a quantum computer
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Xiaodong Xu, Mingjun Shi, Jihui Wu, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics Review Letter 88, 137902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104087
abstract: We generalize the quantum Prisoner's Dilemma to the case where the players share a non maximally entangled states. We show that the game exhibits an intriguing structure as a function of the amount of entanglement with two thresholds which separate a classical region, an intermediate region and a fully quantum region. Furthermore this quantum game is experimentally realized on our nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0104088
title: Unknown Quantum States: The Quantum de Finetti Representation
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43, 4537 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104088
abstract: We present an elementary proof of the quantum de Finetti representation theorem, a quantum analogue of de Finetti's classical theorem on exchangeable probability assignments. This contrasts with the original proof of Hudson and Moody [Z. Wahrschein. verw. Geb. 33, 343 (1976)], which relies on advanced mathematics and does not share the same potential for generalization. The classical de Finetti theorem provides an operational definition of the concept of an unknown probability in Bayesian probability theory, where probabilities are taken to be degrees of belief instead of objective states of nature. The quantum de Finetti theorem, in a closely analogous fashion, deals with exchangeable density-operator assignments and provides an operational definition of the concept of an ``unknown quantum state'' in quantum-state tomography. This result is especially important for information-based interpretations of quantum mechanics, where quantum states, like probabilities, are taken to be states of knowledge rather than states of nature. We further demonstrate that the theorem fails for real Hilbert spaces and discuss the significance of this point.

id: quant-ph/0104089
title: Enhanced Autocompensating Quantum Cryptography System
authors: Donald S. Bethune, Martha Navarro, William P. Risk
comments: 13 pages, 1 table, 9 figures; Applied Optics LP (in press, to appear 3/02)
journal: Applied Optics LP 41 (2002) 1640-1648
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104089
abstract: We have improved the hardware and software of our autocompensating system for quantum key distribution by replacing bulk optical components at the end stations with fiber-optic equivalents and implementing software that synchronizes end-station activities, communicates basis choices, corrects errors and performs privacy amplification over a local area network. The all fiber-optic arrangement provides stable, efficient and high-contrast routing of the photons. The low bit error rate leads to high error correction efficiency and minimizes data sacrifice during privacy amplification. Characterization measurements made on a number of commercial avalanche photodiodes are presented that highlight the need for improved devices tailored specifically for quantum information applications. A scheme for frequency shifting the photons returning from Alice's station to allow them to be distinguished from backscattered noise photons is also described. OCIS codes: 030.5260, 060.0060, 060.2360, 230.2240, 270.5570.

id: quant-ph/0104090
title: Quantum information processing for a coherent superposition state via a mixed entangled coherent channel
authors: H. Jeong, M. S. Kim, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. The content has been modified and the title has been changed. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 052308 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104090
abstract: An entangled two-mode coherent state is studied within the framework of $2\times 2$ dimensional Hilbert space. An entanglement concentration scheme based on joint Bell-state measurements is worked out. When the entangled coherent state is embedded in vacuum environment, its entanglement is degraded but not totally lost. It is found that the larger the initial coherent amplitude, the faster entanglement decreases. We investigate a scheme to teleport a coherent superposition state while considering a mixed quantum channel. We find that the decohered entangled coherent state may be useless for quantum teleportation as it gives the optimal fidelity of teleportation less than the classical limit 2/3.

id: quant-ph/0104091
title: Quantum mechanics gives stability to a Nash equilibrium
authors: A.Iqbal, A.H.Toor
comments: Revised on referee's criticism, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 022306 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104091
abstract: We consider a slightly modified version of the Rock-Scissors-Paper (RSP) game from the point of view of evolutionary stability. In its classical version the game has a mixed Nash equilibrium (NE) not stable against mutants. We find a quantized version of the RSP game for which the classical mixed NE becomes stable.

id: quant-ph/0104092
title: Reply to Comment on ``Proposal for the Measurement of Bell-Type Correlations from Continuous Variables''
authors: T. C. Ralph, W. J. Munro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104092
abstract: Recently K. Banaszek, I. A. Walmsley, K. Wodkiewicz (quant-ph/0012097) commented on our Proposal for the Measurement of Bell-Type Correlations from Continuous Variables [T. C. Ralph, W. J. Munro, R. E. S. Polkinghorne, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2035 (2000)]. Their comment is based on a blatant misreading and misunderstanding of our letter and as such is simply wrong.

id: quant-ph/0104093
title: Uniqueness of a convex sum of products of projectors
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 4 pages. v2: Minor clarifications in Section III; as accepted for publication in J Math Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys 43(1) 684-686 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104093
abstract: Relative to a given factoring of the Hilbert space, the decomposition of an operator into a convex sum of products over sets of distinct 1-projectors, one set linearly independent, is unique.

id: quant-ph/0104094
title: Rigid rotor in phase space
authors: S. Danko Bosanac
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104094
abstract: Angular momentum is important concept in physics, and its phase space properties are important in various applications. In this work phase space analysis of the angular momentum is made from its classical definition, and by imposing uncertainty principle its quantum properties are obtained. It is shown that kinetic energy operator is derived, but it has different interpretation of its parts than in the standard treatment. Rigid rotor is discussed and it is shown what is its phase space representation. True rigid rotor is defined and also its phase space properties are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104095
title: Distillability via protocols respecting the positivity of partial transpose
authors: Tilo Eggeling, Karl Gerd H. Vollbrecht, Reinhard F. Werner, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 3 pages, REVTeX, remark on complete positivity and reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104095
abstract: We show that all quantum states that do not have a positive partial transpose are distillable via channels, which preserve the positivity of the partial transpose. The question whether NPT bound entanglement exist is therefore closely related to the connection between the set of separable superoperators and PPT-preserving maps.

id: quant-ph/0104096
title: Generation of two-mode nonclassical motional states and a Fredkin gate operation in a two-dimensional ion trap
authors: Xu-Bo Zou, Jaewan Kim, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: To be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104096
abstract: We present an efficient scheme to generate two-mode SU(2) macroscopic quantum superposition (Schr\"odinger cat) states, entangled number states and entangled coherent states for the vibrational motion of an ion trapped in a two-dimensional harmonic potential well. We also show that the same scheme can be used to realize a Fredkin gate operation.

id: quant-ph/0104097
title: Total Teleportation of an Entangled State
authors: Hai-Woong Lee
comments: To be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104097
abstract: We present a setup for a direct, total teleportation of a single-particle entangled state. Our scheme consists of a parametric down-conversion source, which emits a pair of entangled photons, and a dual Bell measurement system with two beam splitters and two pairs of detectors. An entangled state shared by a pair of beams can be directly transferred to another pair of beams with a 50% probability of success. By a straightforward generalization of the scheme, total teleportation of a multi-particle entangled state can also be performed.

id: quant-ph/0104098
title: Separable approximation for mixed states of composite quantum systems
authors: Thomas Wellens, Marek Kus
comments: 13 pages, no figures; minor changes; accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104098
abstract: We describe a purely algebraic method for finding the best separable approximation to a mixed state of a composite 2x2 quantum system, consisting of a decomposition of the state into a linear combination of a mixed separable part and a pure entangled one. We prove that, in a generic case, the weight of the pure part in the decomposition equals the concurrence of the state.

id: quant-ph/0104099
title: Engineering arbitrary motional ionic state through realistic intensity-fluctuating laser pulses
authors: R. M. Serra, P.B. Ramos, N. G. de Almeida, W. D. Jose, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: more information at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev A 63, 053813 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104099
abstract: We present a reliable scheme for engineering arbitrary motional ionic states through an adaptation of the projection synthesis technique for trapped-ion phenomena. Starting from a prepared coherent motional state, the Wigner function of the desired state is thus sculpted from a Gaussian distribution. The engineering process has also been developed to take into account the errors arising from intensity fluctuations in the exciting-laser pulses required for manipulating the electronic and vibrational states of the trapped ion. To this end, a recently developed phenomenological-operator approach that allows for the influence of noise will be applied. This approach furnishes a straightforward technique to estimate the fidelity of the prepared state in the presence of errors, precluding the usual extensive ab initio calculations. The results obtained here by the phenomenological approach, to account for the effects of noise in our engineering scheme, can be directly applied to any other process involving trapped-ion phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0104100
title: Lower bounds in the quantum cell probe model
authors: Pranab Sen, S. Venkatesh
comments: 32 pages. A preliminary version appeared at ICALP 2001. This version is substantially revised and expanded. It has new and stronger results as compared to the ICALP version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104100
abstract: We introduce a new model for studying quantum data structure problems -- the "quantum cell probe model". We prove a lower bound for the static predecessor problem in the address-only version of this model where we allow quantum parallelism only over the `address lines' of the queries. The address-only quantum cell probe model subsumes the classical cell probe model, and many quantum query algorithms like Grover's algorithm fall into this framework. Our lower bound improves the previous known lower bound for the predecessor problem in the classical cell probe model with randomised query schemes, and matches the classical deterministic upper bound of Beame and Fich. Beame and Fich have also proved a matching lower bound for the predecessor problem, but only in the classical deterministic setting. Our lower bound has the advantage that it holds for the more general quantum model, and also, its proof is substantially simpler than that of Beame and Fich. We prove our lower bound by obtaining a round elimination lemma for quantum communication complexity. A similar lemma was proved by Miltersen, Nisan, Safra and Wigderson for classical communication complexity, but it was not strong enough to prove a lower bound matching the upper bound of Beame and Fich. Our quantum round elimination lemma also allows us to prove rounds versus communication tradeoffs for some quantum communication complexity problems like the "greater-than" problem. We also study the "static membership" problem in the quantum cell probe model. Generalising a result of Yao, we show that if the storage scheme is implicit, that is it can only store members of the subset and `pointers', then any quantum query scheme must make $\Omega(\log n)$ probes.

id: quant-ph/0104101
title: Entanglement in a two-identical-particle system
authors: Yan Song Li, Bei Zeng, Xiao Shu Liu, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phy. Rev. A 64(2001) 054302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104101
abstract: The definition of entanglement in identical-particle system is introduced. The separability criterion in two-identical particle system is given. The physical meaning of the definition is analysed. Applications to two-boson and two-fermion systems are made. It is found new entanglement and correlation phenomena in identical-boson systems exist, and they may have applications in the field of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0104102
title: General Schemes for multi-particle d-dimensional Cat-like State Teleportation
authors: Bei Zeng, Xiao Shu Liu, Yan Song Li, Gui Lu Long
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104102
abstract: Two kinds of $M$-particle d-dimensional cat-like state teleportation protocols are present. In the first protocol, the teleportation is achieved by d-dimensional Bell-basis measurements, while in the second protocol it is realized by d-dimensional GHZ-basis measurement. It is also shown that the second protocol has a simple mathematical formulation that is identical to Bennett et al's original teleportation protocol for an unknown state of a single particle.

id: quant-ph/0104103
title: The breakdown flash of Silicon Avalance Photodiodes - backdoor for eavesdropper attacks?
authors: Christian Kurtsiefer, Patrick Zarda, Sonja Mayer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to J. Mod. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104103
abstract: Silicon avalanche photodiodes are the most sensitive photodetectors in the visible to near infrared region. However, when they are used for single photon detection in a Geiger mode, they are known to emit light on the controlled breakdown used to detect a photoelectron. This fluorescence light might have serious impacts on experimental applications like quantum cryptography or single-particle spectroscopy. We characterized the fluorescence behaviour of silicon avalanche photodiodes in the experimentally simple passive quenching configuration and discuss implications for their use in quantum cryptography systems.

id: quant-ph/0104104
title: A Continuous Transition Between Quantum and Classical Mechanics (I)
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: Revised version, to appear in Found. of Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics vol. 32, pp 871-892, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104104
abstract: In spite of its popularity, it has not been possible to vindicate the conventional wisdom that classical mechanics is a limiting case of quantum mechanics. The purpose of the present paper is to offer an alternative formulation of classical mechanics which provides a continuous transition to quantum mechanics via environment-induced decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0104105
title: A Continous Transition Between Quantum and Classical Mechanics (II)
authors: Partha Ghose, Manoj K. Samal
comments: Revised version, to appear in Found. of Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics, vol. 32, pp 893-906, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104105
abstract: Examples are worked out using a new equation proposed in the previous paper to show that it has new physical predictions for mesoscopic systems.

id: quant-ph/0104106
title: Geometric Phase in SU(N) Interferometry
authors: Hubert de Guise, Barry C. Sanders, Stephen D. Bartlett, Weiping Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, presented at the Doppler Institute-CRM meeting, (Prague, Czech Republic, June 18-22 2000)
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 51, 312 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104106
abstract: An interferometric scheme to study Abelian geometric phase shift over the manifold SU(N)/SU(N-1) is presented.

id: quant-ph/0104107
title: Singlet states and the estimation of eigenstates and eigenvalues of an unknown Controlled-U gate
authors: Mark Hillery, Vladimir Buzek
comments: Latex, 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104107
abstract: We consider several problems that involve finding the eigenvalues and generating the eigenstates of unknown unitary gates. We first examine Controlled-U gates that act on qubits, and assume that we know the eigenvalues. It is then shown how to use singlet states to produce qubits in the eigenstates of the gate. We then remove the assumption that we know the eigenvalues and show how to both find the eigenvalues and produce qubits in the eigenstates. Finally, we look at the case where the unitary operator acts on qutrits and has eigenvalues of 1 and -1, where the eigenvalue 1 is doubly degenerate. The eigenstates are unknown. We are able to use a singlet state to produce a qutrit in the eigenstate corresponding to the -1 eigenvalue.

id: quant-ph/0104108
title: Biased EPR entanglement and its application to teleportation
authors: W.P. Bowen, P.K. Lam, T.C. Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 2003, Vol. 50, No. 5, 801-813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104108
abstract: We consider pure continuous variable entanglement with non-equal correlations between orthogonal quadratures. We introduce a simple protocol which equates these correlations and in the process transforms the entanglement onto a state with the minimum allowed number of photons. As an example we show that our protocol transforms, through unitary local operations, a single squeezed beam split on a beam splitter into the same entanglement that is produced when two squeezed beams are mixed orthogonally. We demonstrate that this technique can in principle facilitate perfect teleportation utilising only one squeezed beam.

id: quant-ph/0104109
title: Weak Quantum Theory: Complementarity and Entanglement in Physics and Beyond
authors: H.Atmanspacher, H.Roemer, H.Walach
comments: Revised version. Chapter 5.2 (old counting) omitted for separate publication, chapter 5.2 (new counting) reformulated
journal: Foundations of Physics 32 (2002) 379-406
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104109
abstract: The concepts of complementarity and entanglement are considered with respect to their significance in and beyond physics. A formally generalized, weak version of quantum theory, more general than ordinary quantum theory of material systems, is outlined and tentatively applied to some examples.

id: quant-ph/0104110
title: Lowest threshold visibility for testing local realistic theories
authors: Gyula Bene
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104110
abstract: Analytical and numerical arguments are presented in case of a pair of two-state systems in a singlet state that the threshold visibility for testing Bell's theorem on the entire range of measurement settings is 33.3%. It is also shown that no lower treshold exists.

id: quant-ph/0104111
title: Relational modal interpretation for relativistic quantum field theories
authors: Gyula Bene
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104111
abstract: The relational version of the modal interpretation offers both a consistent quantum ontology and solution for quantum paradoxes within the framework of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. In the present paper this approach is generalized for the case of relativistic quantum field theories. Physical systems are defined as Hilbert spaces. The concept of the reduced density matrix is also generalized so that its trace may become smaller than one, expressing the possibility of annihilation. Superselection rules are shown to follow if the whole Universe has a definite electric charge, barionic number and leptonic number.

id: quant-ph/0104112
title: Quantum origin of classical properties within the modal interpretations
authors: Gyula Bene
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104112
abstract: An example is presented when decoherence and quantum interference gives rise to narrow eigenstates (in coordinate representation) for the reduced density matrix of macroscopic quantum systems. On the basis of modal interpretations this means the emergence of classical properties.

id: quant-ph/0104113
title: Discrete path integral for spin-1/2 in the Grassmannian representation
authors: S. Shresta
comments: Latex; 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104113
abstract: A variation to the usual formulation of Grassmann representation path integrals is presented. Time-indexed anticommuting partners are introduced for each Grassmann coherent state variable and a general method for handling the effect of these introduced Grassmann partners is also developed. These Grassmann partners carry the nilpotency and anticommutivity of the Grassmann coherent state variables into the propagator and allow the propagator to be written as a path integral. Two examples are introduced in which this variation is shown to yield exact results. In particular, exact results are demonstratated for a spin-1/2 in a time-dependent magnetic field, and for a spin-boson system. The stationary path approximation is then shown to be exact for each example.

id: quant-ph/0104114
title: Quantum Entanglement in Fermionic Lattices
authors: P. Zanardi
comments: 4 Pages LaTeX, 1 TeX Figure. Presentation improved, title changed. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, (2002) 042101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104114
abstract: The Fock space of a system of indistinguishable particles is isomorphic (in a non-unique way) to the state-space of a composite i.e., many-modes, quantum system. One can then discuss quantum entanglement for fermionic as well as bosonic systems. We exemplify the use of this notion -central in quantum information - by studying some e.g., Hubbard,lattice fermionic models relevant to condensed matter physics.

id: quant-ph/0104115
title: Two-Photon Interferometry for High-Resolution Imaging
authors: Dmitry Strekalov, Jonathan Dowling
comments: Presented at PQE 2001. To appear in Special Issue of Journal of Modern Optics
journal: D.V. Strekalov and J. P. Dowling, Journal of Modern Optics, 49, 519-527 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104115
abstract: We discuss advantages of using non-classical states of light for two aspects of optical imaging: creating of miniature images on photosensitive substrates, which constitutes the foundation for optical lithography, and imaging of micro objects. In both cases, the classical resolution limit given by the Rayleigh criterion is approximately a half of the optical wavelength. It has been shown, however, that by using multi-photon quantum states of the light field, and multi-photon sensitive material or detector, this limit can be surpassed. We give a rigorous quantum mechanical treatment of this problem, address some particularly widespread misconceptions and discuss the requirements for turning the research on quantum imaging into a practical technology.

id: quant-ph/0104116
title: Sensitivity optimization in quantum parameter estimation
authors: F. Verstraete, A. C. Doherty, H. Mabuchi
comments: 15 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 64: 032111 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104116
abstract: We present a general framework for sensitivity optimization in quantum parameter estimation schemes based on continuous (indirect) observation of a dynamical system. As an illustrative example, we analyze the canonical scenario of monitoring the position of a free mass or harmonic oscillator to detect weak classical forces. We show that our framework allows the consideration of sensitivity scheduling as well as estimation strategies for non-stationary signals, leading us to propose corresponding generalizations of the Standard Quantum Limit for force detection.

id: quant-ph/0104117
title: Quantum Computing with Globally Controlled Exchange-type Interactions
authors: Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 3 pages inc. 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104117
abstract: If the interaction between qubits in a quantum computer has a non-diagonal form (e.g. the Heisenberg interaction), then one must be able to "switch it off" in order to prevent uncontrolled propagation of states. Therefore, such QC schemes typically demand local control of the interaction strength between each pair of neighboring qubits. Here we demonstrate that this degree of control is not necessary: it suffices to switch the interaction collectively - something that can in principle be achieved by global fields rather than with local manipulations. This observation may offer a significant simplification for various solid state, optical lattice and NMR implementations.

id: quant-ph/0104118
title: Interaction of 3-level atom with radiation
authors: L. Accardi, K. Imafuku, S.V. Kozyrev
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX 2.09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104118
abstract: The interaction of 3-level system with a quantum field in a non-equilibrium state is considered. We describe a class of states of the quantum field for wich a stationary state drives the system to inverse populated state. We find that the quotient of the population of the energy levels in the simplest case is described by the double Einstein formula which involves products of two Einstein emission/absorption relations. Emission and absorption of radiation by 3-level atom in non-equlibrium stationary state is described.

id: quant-ph/0104119
title: Stimulated emission with a non-equilibrium state of radiation
authors: L.Accardi, K.Imafuku, S.V.Kozyrev
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104119
abstract: The stimulated emission from an atom interacting with radiation in non-equilibrium state is considered. The stochastic limit, applied to the non-relativistic Hamiltonian describing the interaction, shows that the state of atoms, driven by some non-equilibrium state of the field approaches a stationary state which can continuously emit photon, unlike the case with an equilibrium state.

id: quant-ph/0104120
title: Generation and manipulation of squeezed states of light in optical networks for quantum communication and computation
authors: Maxim Raginsky, Prem Kumar
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; submitted to Journal of Optics B
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 3, L1-L4 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104120
abstract: We analyze a fiber-optic component which could find multiple uses in novel information-processing systems utilizing squeezed states of light. Our approach is based on the phenomenon of photon-number squeezing of soliton noise after the soliton has propagated through a nonlinear optical fiber. Applications of this component in optical networks for quantum computation and quantum cryptography are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0104121
title: Dielectric black hole analogues
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, G¨¹nter Plunien, Gerhard Soff
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 061101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104121
abstract: Alternative to the sonic black hole analogues we discuss a different scenario for modeling the Schwarzschild geometry in a laboratory - the dielectric black hole. The dielectric analogue of the horizon occurs if the velocity of the medium with a finite permittivity exceeds the speed of light in that medium. The relevance for experimental tests of the Hawking effect and possible implications are addressed. PACS: 04.70.Dy, 04.62.+v, 04.80.-y, 42.50.Gy.

id: quant-ph/0104122
title: Robust and Fragile Entanglement of Three Qubits: Relation to Permutation Symmetry
authors: A.K. Rajagopal, R.W. Rendell
comments: 15 pages, 1 Table, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A65, 032328 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104122
abstract: Entanglement properties of a basic set of eight entangled three particle pure states possessing certain permutation symmetries are studied. They fall into four sets of two entangled states, differing in their patterns of robustness to entanglement when one of the states is lost. These features are related to the permutation symmetries of the spin states of the three particles and their corresponding marginal two-particle states. It is interesting to note that the eight entangled three-qubit states discussed here are eigenstates of a three-spin Heisenberg Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0104123
title: How a Quantum Theory Based on Generalized Coherent States Resolves the EPR and Measurement Problems
authors: Daniel I. Fivel
comments: 14 pages, Plain Tex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104123
abstract: It is shown that the quantum theory can be formulated on homogeneous spaces of generalized coherent states in a manner that accounts for interference, entanglement, and the linearity of dynamics without using the superposition principle. The coherent state labels, which are essentially instructions for preparing states, make it unnecessary to identify properties with projectors in Hilbert space. This eliminates the so called "eigenvalue-eigenstate" link, and the theory thereby escapes the measurement problem. What the theory allows us to predict is the distribution in the outcomes of tests of relations between coherent states. It is shown that quantum non-determinism can be attributed to a hidden variable (noise) in the space of relations without violating the no-go theorems (e.g. Kochen-Specker). It is shown that the coherent state vacuum is distorted when entangled states are generated. The non-locality of the vacuum permits this distortion to be felt everywhere without the transmission of a signal and thereby accounts for EPR correlations in a manifestly covariant way.

id: quant-ph/0104124
title: n+1 dimensional Dirac equation and the Klein paradox
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: To be published in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am.J.Phys. 69 (2001) 1111-1112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104124
abstract: The purpose of this comment is to clarify two points related to the Dirac equation. First, the Lorentz structure of the potential and its connection with the Klein paradox. Second, the connection between the number of space dimensions and the number of spinor components.

id: quant-ph/0104125
title: Propagation of Raman-matched laser pulses through a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures, to be published in Opt. Commun
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104125
abstract: We investigate the role of non-uniform spatial density profiles of trapped atomic Bose-Einstein condensates in the propagation of Raman-matched laser pulses under conditions for electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We find that the sharp edged axial density profile of an interacting condensate (due to a balance between external trap and repulsive atomic interaction) is advantageous for obtaining ultra slow averaged group velocities. Our results are in good quantitative agreement with a recent experiment report [Nature {\bf 397}, 594 (1999)].

id: quant-ph/0104126
title: Probabilities, Tensors and Qubits
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 15 pages, "QIS preprint" layout
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104126
abstract: In the paper is discussed complete probabilistic description of quantum systems with application to multiqubit quantum computations. In simplest case it is a set of probabilities of transitions to some fixed set of states. The probabilities in the set may be represented linearly via coefficients of density matrix and it is very similar with description using mixed states, but also may give some alternative view on specific properties of quantum circuits due to possibility of direct comparison with classical statistical paradigm.

id: quant-ph/0104127
title: Non-adiabatically detecting the geometric phase of the macroscopic quantum state with symmetric SQUID
authors: Wang Xiangbin, Matsumoto Keiji
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B65, 172508(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104127
abstract: We give a simple way to detect the geometric phase shift and the conditional geometric phase shift with Josephson junction system. Comparing with the previous work(Falcl G, Fazio R, Palma G.M., Siewert J and Verdal V, {\it Nature} {\bf 407}, 355(2000)), our scheme has two advantages. We use the non-adiabatic operation, thus the detection is less affected by the decoherence. Also, we take the time evolution on zero dynamic phase loop, we need not take any extra operation to cancel the dynamic phase.

id: quant-ph/0104128
title: Conditional evolution in single-atom cavity QED
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 15 pages, 1 postscript figure, added discussion of model
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 013804 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104128
abstract: We consider a typical setup of cavity QED consisting of a two-level atom interacting strongly with a single resonant electromagnetic field mode inside a cavity. The cavity is resonantly driven and the output undergoes continuous homodyne measurements. We derive an explicit expression for the state of the system conditional on a discrete photocount record. This expression takes a particularly simple form if the system is initially in the steady state. As a byproduct, we derive a general formula for the steady state that had been conjectured before in the strong driving limit.

id: quant-ph/0104129
title: A Quantum Adiabatic Evolution Algorithm Applied to Random Instances of an NP-Complete Problem
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann, Joshua Lapan, Andrew Lundgren, Daniel Preda
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, email correspondence to farhi@mit.edu ; a shorter version of this article appeared in the April 20, 2001 issue of Science; see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104129
abstract: A quantum system will stay near its instantaneous ground state if the Hamiltonian that governs its evolution varies slowly enough. This quantum adiabatic behavior is the basis of a new class of algorithms for quantum computing. We test one such algorithm by applying it to randomly generated, hard, instances of an NP-complete problem. For the small examples that we can simulate, the quantum adiabatic algorithm works well, and provides evidence that quantum computers (if large ones can be built) may be able to outperform ordinary computers on hard sets of instances of NP-complete problems.

id: quant-ph/0104130
title: Creating massive entanglement of Bose condensed atoms
authors: Kristian Helmerson, Li You
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; Updated figure 3(a), original was "noisy"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104130
abstract: We propose a direct, coherent coupling scheme that can create massively entangled states of Bose-Einstein condensed atoms. Our idea is based on an effective interaction between two atoms from coherent Raman processes through a (two atom) molecular intermediate state. We compare our scheme with other recent proposals for generation of massive entanglement of Bose condensed atoms.

id: quant-ph/0104131
title: An NMR Analog of the Quantum Disentanglement Eraser
authors: G. Teklemariam, E. M. Fortunato, M. A. Pravia, T. F. Havel, D. G. Cory
comments: Four pages, one figure (RevTeX 2.1), to appear in Physics Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86(2001), 5845-5849.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104131
abstract: We report the implementation of a three-spin quantum disentanglement eraser on a liquid-state NMR quantum information processor. A key feature of this experiment was its use of pulsed magnetic field gradients to mimic projective measurements. This ability is an important step towards the development of an experimentally controllable system which can simulate any quantum dynamics, both coherent and decoherent.

id: quant-ph/0104132
title: Time Evolution of tunneling and decoherence: soluble model
authors: A. N. Salgueiro, A.F. de R. de Toledo Piza, J. G. Peixoto de Faria
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104132
abstract: Decoherence effects associated to the damping of a tunneling two-level system are shown to dominate the tunneling probability at short times in strong coupling regimes in the context of a soluble model. A general decomposition of tunneling rates in dissipative and unitary parts is implemented. Master equation treatments fail to describe the model system correctly when more than a single relaxation time is involved.

id: quant-ph/0104133
title: Bell's theorem without inequalities and only two distant observers
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: 8 pages, 1 table. A minor misprint in one of the mathematical expressions occuring in the text has been corrected, as have a couple of typos
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 15, 397-405 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104133
abstract: A proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities and involving only two observers is given by suitably extending a proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem due to Mermin. This proof is generalized to obtain an inequality-free proof of Bell's theorem for a set of n Bell states (with n odd) shared between two distant observers. A generalized CHSH inequality is formulated for n Bell states shared symmetrically between two observers and it is shown that quantum mechanics violates this inequality by an amount that grows exponentially with increasing n.

id: quant-ph/0104134
title: Superfluidity in the stochastic limit
authors: L. Accardi, S.V. Kozyrev
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX 2.09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104134
abstract: In the present paper we outline the stochastic limit approach to superfluidity. The Hamiltonian describing the interaction between the Bose condensate and the normal phase is introduced. Sufficient in the stochastic limit condition of superfluidity is proposed. Existence of superfluidity in the stochastic limit of this system is proved and the non-linear (quadratic) equation of motion describing the superfluid liquid is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0104135
title: Nonadditive measure and quantum entanglement in a class of mixed states of N^n-system
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104135
abstract: Through the generalization of Khinchin's classical axiomatic foundation, a basis is developed for nonadditive information theory. The classical nonadditive conditional entropy indexed by the positive parameter q is introduced and then translated into quantum information. This quantity is nonnegative for classically correlated states but can take negative values for entangled mixed states. This property is used to study quantum entanglement in the parametrized Werner-Popescu-like state of an N^n-system, that is, an n-partite N-level system. It is shown how the strongest limitation on validity of local realism (i.e., separability of the state) can be obtained in a novel manner.

id: quant-ph/0104136
title: Finite Energy Sum Rules in Potential Scattering
authors: N. Graham, R. L. Jaffe, M. Quandt, H. Weigel
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, uses RevTex4
journal: Annals Phys. 293 (2001) 240
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104136
abstract: We study scattering theory identities previously obtained as consistency conditions in the context of one-loop quantum field theory calculations. We prove the identities using Jost function techniques and study applications.

id: quant-ph/0104137
title: Quantum Walks on the Hypercube
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104137
abstract: Recently, it has been shown that one-dimensional quantum walks can mix more quickly than classical random walks, suggesting that quantum Monte Carlo algorithms can outperform their classical counterparts. We study two quantum walks on the n-dimensional hypercube, one in discrete time and one in continuous time. In both cases we show that the quantum walk mixes in (\pi/4)n steps, faster than the O(n log n) steps required by the classical walk. In the continuous-time case, the probability distribution is {\em exactly} uniform at this time. More importantly, these walks expose several subtleties in the definition of mixing time for quantum walks. Even though the continuous-time walk has an O(n) instantaneous mixing time at which it is precisely uniform, it never approaches the uniform distribution when the stopping time is chosen randomly as in [AharonovAKV2001]. Our analysis treats interference between terms of different phase more carefully than is necessary for the walk on the cycle; previous general bounds predict an exponential, rather than linear, mixing time for the hypercube.

id: quant-ph/0104138
title: Mermin's pentagram and Bell's theorem
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: Fig.1 of the old version has been replaced by a new figure giving a more realistic rendition of a pentagram
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104138
abstract: It is shown how a proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker (BKS) theorem given by Kernaghan and Peres can be experimentally realized using a scheme of measurements derived from a related proof of the same theorem by Mermin. It is also pointed out that if this BKS experiment is carried out independently by two distant observers who repeatedly make measurements on a specially correlated state of six qubits, it provides an inequality-free demonstration of Bell's theorem as well.

id: quant-ph/0104139
title: Violation of multi-particle Bell inequalities for low and high flux parametric amplification using both vacuum and entangled input states
authors: M. D. Reid, W. J. Munro, F. De Martini
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 033801 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104139
abstract: We show how polarisation measurements on the output fields generated by parametric down conversion will reveal a violation of multi-particle Bell inequalities, in the regime of both low and high output intensity. In this case each spatially separated system, upon which a measurement is performed, is comprised of more than one particle. In view of the formal analogy with spin systems, the proposal provides an opportunity to test the predictions of quantum mechanics for spatially separated higher spin states. Here the quantum behaviour possible even where measurements are performed on systems of large quantum (particle) number may be demonstrated. Our proposal applies to both vacuum-state signal and idler inputs, and also to the quantum-injected parametric amplifier as studied by De Martini et al. The effect of detector inefficiencies is included.

id: quant-ph/0104140
title: Sundays in a Quantum Engineer's Life
authors: N. Gisin
comments: Talk presented at the Conference in Commemoration of John S. Bell, Vienna 10-14 November 2000. 4 pages & 3 figures
journal: Quantum [Un]speakable, pp 199-208, ed. R.A. Bertlmann and A. Zeilinger, Springer 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0104140
abstract: I am a Quantum Engineer, but on Sundays I have principles, John Bell opened his "underground colloquium" in March 1983, words which I will never forget! What! John Bell, the great John Bell, presented himself as an engineer!?! one of those people who make things work without even understanding how they function?!? whereas I thought of John Bell as one of the greatest theoretician.

id: cond-mat/0104039
title: Quantum Effects in the Mechanical Properties of Suspended Nanomechanical Systems
authors: S. M. Carr, W. E. Lawrence, M. N. Wybourne
comments: RevTeX4. 5 pages, 3 eps figures. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64 220101(R) (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104039
abstract: We explore the quantum aspects of an elastic bar supported at both ends and subject to compression. If strain rather than stress is held fixed, the system remains stable beyond the buckling instability, supporting two potential minima. The classical equilibrium transverse displacement is analogous to a Ginsburg-Landau order parameter, with strain playing the role of temperature. We calculate the quantum fluctuations about the classical value as a function of strain. Excitation energies and quantum fluctuation amplitudes are compared for silicon beams and carbon nanotubes.

id: cond-mat/0104138
title: Classification of the pairing transition in finite fermionic systems
authors: A. Belic, D.J. Dean, M. Hjorth-Jensen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figs included
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104138
abstract: In this work we employ a simple pairing interaction model in order to study and classify an eventual pairing phase transition in finite fermionic systems. We show that systems with as few as 10-16 fermions can exhibit clear features reminiscent of a phase transition. To classify the nature of the transition we apply two different numerical methods, one based on standard thermodymanics, and another based on a recently proposed scheme by Borrmann et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 3511 (2000)]. The transition is shown to be of second order, in agreement with results for infinite fermionic systems.

id: cond-mat/0104284
title: Energies and collapse times of symmetric and symmetry-breaking states of finite systems with a U(1) symmetry
authors: Akira Shimizu, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: In the revised manuscript, Eq. (22), Ref. [8], and Notes [13], [15] and [17] have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. E64, 056121 (2001)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104284
abstract: We study quantum systems of volume V, which will exhibit the breaking of a U(1) symmetry in the limit of V \to \infty, when V is large but finite. We estimate the energy difference between the `symmetric ground state' (SGS), which is the lowest-energy state that does not breaks the symmetry, and a `pure phase vacuum' (PPV), which approaches a symmetry-breaking vacuum as V \to \infty. Under some natural postulates on the energy of the SGS, it is shown that PPVs always have a higher energy than the SGS, and we derive a lower bound of the excess energy. We argue that the lower bound is O(V^0), which becomes much larger than the excitation energies of low-lying excited states for a large V. We also discuss the collapse time of PPVs for interacting many bosons. It is shown that the wave function collapses in a microscopic time scale, because PPVs are not energy eigenstates. We show, however, that for PPVs the expectation value of any observable, which is a finite polynomial of boson operators and their derivatives, does not collapse for a macroscopic time scale. In this sense, the collapse time of PPVs is macroscopically long.

id: cond-mat/0104406
title: The Role of Correlation in the Operation of Quantum-dot Cellular Automata
authors: Geza Toth, Craig S. Lent
comments: 45 pre-print style double-spaced pages including 8 figures, accepted for Journal of Applied Physics
journal: Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 89, No. 12, pp. 7943-7953(2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104406
abstract: Quantum-dot Cellular Automata (QCA) may offer a viable alternative of traditional transistor-based technology at the nanoscale. When modeling a QCA circuit, the number of degrees of freedom necessary to describe the quantum mechanical state increases exponentially making modeling even modest size cell arrays difficult. The intercellular Hartree approximation largely reduces the number of state variables and still gives good results especially when the system remains near ground state. This suggests that large part of the correlation degrees of freedom are not essential from the point of view of the dynamics. In certain cases, however, such as for example the majority gate with unequal input legs, the Hartree approximation gives qualitatively wrong results. An intermediate model is constructed between the Hartree approximation and the exact model, based on the coherence vector formalism. By including correlation effects to a desired degree, it improves the results of the Hartree method and gives the approximate dynamics of the correlation terms. It also models the majority gate correctly. Beside QCA cell arrays, our findings are valid for Ising spin chains in transverse magnetic field, and can be straightforwardly generalized for coupled two-level systems with a more complicated Hamiltonian.

id: cond-mat/0104435
title: Adiabatic steering and determination of dephasing rates in double dot qubits
authors: T. Brandes, F. Renzoni, R. H. Blick
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 64, 035319 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104435
abstract: We propose a scheme to prepare arbitrary superpositions of quantum states in double quantum--dots irradiated by coherent microwave pulses. Solving the equations of motion for the dot density matrix, we find that dephasing rates for such superpositions can be quantitatively infered from additional electron current pulses that appear due to a controllable breakdown of coherent population trapping in the dots.

id: cond-mat/0104463
title: Microscopic Evolution of a Weakly Interacting Homogeneous Bose Gas
authors: D. G. Barci, E. S. Fraga, Rudnei O. Ramos
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure (uses epsfig). To appear in Laser Physics (2001), Special Issue on Bose-Einstein Condensation of Trapped Atoms. A few misprints and errors have been corrected
journal: Laser Phys. 12 (2002) 43-49
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104463
abstract: We provide a detailed description of the nonequilibrium time evolution of an interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate. We use a nonperturbative in-medium quantum field theory approach as a microscopic model for the Bose gas. The real-time dynamics of the condensate is encoded in a set of self-consistent equations which corresponds to an infinite sum of ladder Feynman diagrams. The crucial role played by the interaction between fluctuations for the instability generation is thoroughly described.

id: cond-mat/0104513
title: Decoherence and dissipation during a quantum XOR gate operation
authors: Michael Thorwart, Peter H?nggi
comments: 16 pages including 1 table and 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012309 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104513
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum XOR gate operation in a two-qubit system being coupled to a bath of quantum harmonic oscillators is investigated. Upon applying the numerical quasiadiabatic propagator path integral method, we obtain the numerically precise time-resolved evolution of this interacting two-qubit system in presence of time-dependent external fields without further approximations. We simulate the dissipative gate operation for characteristic experimental realizations of condensed matter qubits; namely, the flux and charge qubits realized in superconducting Josephson systems and qubits formed with semiconductor quantum dots. Moreover, we study systematically the quality of the XOR gate by determining the four characteristic gate quantifiers: fidelity, purity, the quantum degree, and the entanglement capability of the gate. Two different types of errors in the qubits have been modelled, i.e., bit-flip errors and phase errors. The dependence of the quality of the gate operation on the environmental temperature, on the friction strength stemming from the system-bath interaction, and on the strength of the interqubit coupling is systematically explored: Our main finding is that the four gate quantifiers depend only weakly on temperature, but are rather sensitive to the friction strength.

id: cond-mat/0104569
title: Towards the fabrication of phosphorus qubits for a silicon quantum computer
authors: J. L. O'Brien, S. R. Schofield, M. Y. Simmons, R. G. Clark, A. S. Dzurak, N. J. Curson, B. E. Kane, N. S. McAlpine, M. E. Hawley, G. W. Brown
comments: To Appear in Phys. Rev. B Rapid Comm. 5 pages, 5 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 161401(R) (2001)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0104569
abstract: The quest to build a quantum computer has been inspired by the recognition of the formidable computational power such a device could offer. In particular silicon-based proposals, using the nuclear or electron spin of dopants as qubits, are attractive due to the long spin relaxation times involved, their scalability, and the ease of integration with existing silicon technology. Fabrication of such devices however requires atomic scale manipulation - an immense technological challenge. We demonstrate that it is possible to fabricate an atomically-precise linear array of single phosphorus bearing molecules on a silicon surface with the required dimensions for the fabrication of a silicon-based quantum computer. We also discuss strategies for the encapsulation of these phosphorus atoms by subsequent silicon crystal growth.

id: gr-qc/0104053
title: Poincare' invariance for continuous-time histories
authors: Ntina Savvidou
comments: 32 pages, Latex. In a non-relativistic history theory there exist two distinct Poincare' groups. The `internal' Poincare' group is analogous to the one that arises in standard canonical quantisation scheme; the `external' Poincare' group performs explicit changes of the spacetime foliation that is implicitly assumed in standard canonical field theory
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 3053-3073
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0104053
abstract: We show that the relativistic analogue of the two types of time translation in a non-relativistic history theory is the existence of two distinct Poincar\'{e} groups. The `internal' Poincar\'{e} group is analogous to the one that arises in the standard canonical quantisation scheme; the `external' Poincar\'{e} group is similar to the group that arises in a Lagrangian description of the standard theory. In particular, it performs explicit changes of the spacetime foliation that is implicitly assumed in standard canonical field theory.

id: gr-qc/0104081
title: General relativity histories theory: Spacetime diffeomorphisms and the Dirac algebra of constraints
authors: Ntina Savvidou
comments: Latex, 27 pages, added material on the `covariant' version of Poisson brackets. We explicitly define the extended history space in which both the Dirac algebra and the diffeomorphisms group are represented
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.18:3611-3628,2001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0104081
abstract: We show that representations of the group of spacetime diffeomorphism and the Dirac algebra both arise in a phase-space histories version of canonical general relativity. This is the general-relativistic analogue of the novel time structure introduced previously in history theory: namely, the existence in non-relativistic physics of two types of time translation; and the existence in relativistic field theory of two distinct Poincare groups.

id: gr-qc/0104082
title: Quantum nondemolition measurements of a particle in electric and gravitational fields
authors: Abel Camacho, Abel Camacho-Galvan
comments: Accepted in International Journal of Modern Physics D, 14 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D10 (2001) 859-868
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0104082
abstract: In this work we obtain a nondemolition variable for the case in which a charged particle moves in the electric and gravitational fields of a spherical body. Afterwards we consider the continuous monitoring of this nondemolition parameter, and calculate along the ideas of the so called restricted path integral formalism, the corresponding propagator. Using these results the probabilities associated with the possible measurement outputs are evaluated. The limit of our results, as the resolution of the measuring device goes to zero, is analyzed, and the dependence of the corresponding propagator upon the strength of the electric and gravitational fields are commented. The role that mass plays in the corresponding results, and its possible connection with the equivalence principle at quantum level, are studied.

id: hep-ph/0104119
title: Space-time symplectic extension
authors: Yu. F. Pirogov
comments: 15 pp, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl. 66 (2003) 136-143; Yad.Fiz. 66 (2003) 138-145
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0104119
abstract: It is conjectured that in the origin of space-time there lies a symplectic rather than metric structure. The complex symplectic symmetry Sp(2l,C), l\ge1 instead of the pseudo-orthogonal one SO(1,d-1), d\ge4 is proposed as the space-time local structure group. A discrete sequence of the metric space-times of the fixed dimensionalities d=(2l)^2 and signatures, with l(2l-1) time-like and l(2l+1) space-like directions, defined over the set of the Hermitian second-rank spin-tensors is considered as an alternative to the pseudo-Euclidean extra dimensional space-times. The basic concepts of the symplectic framework are developed in general, and the ordinary and next-to-ordinary space-time cases with l=1,2, respectively, are elaborated in more detail. In particular, the scheme provides the rationale for the four-dimensionality and 1+3 signature of the ordinary space-time.

id: hep-ph/0104167
title: Nonequilibrium Temperature for Open Boson and Fermion Systems
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: LaTex 11 pages, no figure; qualitative argument is added for the temperature relation of thermal equilibrium at high temperature and references are added
journal: J.Korean Phys.Soc. 41 (2003) 643-648
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0104167
abstract: The effective theory of an open boson or fermion system is studied, which evolves out of equilibrium with time-dependent Hamiltonian $\hat{H}(t)$. A measure of nonequilibrium temperature for the open system evolving from an equilibrium is proposed as the time-averaged energy expectation value $T(t) = T_i(\bar{< \hat{H} (t) >_{\Psi}}/ \bar{< \hat{I} (t) >_{\Psi}})$, where $\hat{I} (t)$, the action operator, satisfies the quantum Liouville-von Neumann equation and determines the true density operator. It recovers the result for the adiabatic (quasi-equilibrium) and nonadiabatic (out of equilibrium) evolution from one static Hamiltonian to another and takes into account the particle production due to the intermediate processes.

id: hep-th/0104074
title: Quantum correlations from incomplete classical statistics
authors: C.Wetterich
comments: New formulation of introduction,conclusions and title,33 pages,LaTex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0104074
abstract: We formulate incomplete classical statistics for situations where the knowledge about the probability distribution outside a local region is limited. The information needed to compute expectation values of local observables can be collected in a quantum mechanical state vector, whereas further statistical information about the probability distribution outside the local region becomes irrelevant. The translation of the available information between neighboring local regions is expressed by a Hamilton operator. A quantum mechanical operator can be associated to each local observable, such that expectation values of ``classical'' observables can be computed by the usual quantum mechanical rules. The requirement that correlation functions should respect equivalence relations for local obeservables induces a non-commutative product in classical statistics, in complete correspondence to the quantum mechanical operator product. We also discuss the issue of interference and the complex structure of quantum mechanics within our classical statistical setting.

id: hep-th/0104076
title: Some Notes Concerning the Dynamics of Noncommutative Lumps Corresponding to Nontrivial Vacua in Noncommutative Yang--Mills Models which are perturbative branches of M(atrix) Theory
authors: Corneliu Sochichiu
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures; Presentation improved. New references added
journal: J.Phys.A35:3125-3141,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0104076
abstract: We consider a pair of noncommutative lumps in the noncommutative Yang--Mills/M(atrix) model. In the case when the lumps are separated by a finite distance their ``polarisations'' do not belong to orthogonal subspaces of the Hilbert space. In this case the interaction between lumps is nontrivial. We analyse the dynamics arisen due to this interaction in both naive approach of rigid lumps and exactly as described by the underlying gauge model. It appears that the exact description is given in terms of finite matrix models/multidimensional mechanics whose dimensionality depends on the initial conditions.

id: hep-th/0104119
title: Supersymmetry and the spontaneous breakdown of PT symmetry
authors: Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Roberto Tateo
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, Latex2e, amssymb, cite and graphicx. v2: a comment and two references added. v3: minor changes, and two references updated
journal: J.Phys.A34:L391,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0104119
abstract: The appearances of complex eigenvalues in the spectra of PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical systems are usually associated with a spontaneous breaking of PT. In this letter we discuss a family of models for which this phenomenon is also linked with an explicit breaking of supersymmetry. Exact level-crossings are located, and connections with N-fold supersymmetry and quasi-exact solvability in certain special cases are pointed out.

id: hep-th/0104237
title: Quantum Mechanics, Quantum Gravity, and Approximate Lorentz Invariance from a Classical Phase-Boundary Universe
authors: Michael Grady
comments: 28 pages, Latex, no figures. Published version, minor wording and formatting changes
journal: Trends in Quantum Gravity Research, 2006, pp. 109-137
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0104237
abstract: A classical dynamical system in a four-dimensional Euclidean space with universal time is considered. The space is hypothesized to be originally occupied by a uniform substance, pictured as a liquid, which at some time became supercooled. Our universe began as a nucleation event initiating a liquid to solid transition. The universe we inhabit and are directly aware of consists of only the three-dimensional expanding phase boundary - a crystalline surface. Random energy transfers to the boundary from thermal fluctuations in the adjacent bulk phases are interpreted by us as quantum fluctuations, and give a physical realization to the stochastic quantization technique. Fermionic matter is modeled as screw dislocations; gauge bosons as surface acoustic waves. Minkowski space emerges dynamically through redefining local time to be proportional to the spatial coordinate perpendicular to the boundary. Lorentz invariance is only approximate, and the photon spectrum (now a phonon spectrum) has a maximum energy. Other features include a geometrical quantum gravitational theory based on elasticity theory, and a simple explanation of the quantum measurement process as a spontaneous symmetry breaking. Present, past and future are physically distinct regions, the present being a unique surface where our universe is being continually constructed.

id: math-ph/0104010
title: Impenetrable Barriers and Canonical Quantization
authors: P. Garbaczewski, W. Karwowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0104010
abstract: We address a conceptual issue of reconciling the traditional canonical quantization framework of quantum theory with the spatially restricted quantum dynamics and the related spectral problems for confined and global observables of the quantum system.

id: math-ph/0104019
title: The W_t Transcendental Function and Quantum Mechanical Applications
authors: V. E. Markushin, R. Rosenfelder, A. W. Schreiber
comments: 24 pages, 10 EPS figures, corrected typos
journal: Riv.Nuovo Cim. B117 (2002) 75-94
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Complex Variables (math.CV); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0104019
abstract: We discuss the function wt(x) defined via the implicit equation wt(x)*tan[wt(x)]=x which appears in certain quantum mechanical and field theoretic applications. We investigate its analytic structure, develop series expansions for both small and large x, and provide various techniques for its numerical evaluation in the complex plane.

id: math-ph/0104036
title: Generating Converging Bounds to the (Complex) Discrete States of the $P^2 + iX^3 + i¦ÁX$ Hamiltonian
authors: C. R. Handy
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0104036
abstract: The Eigenvalue Moment Method (EMM), Handy (2001), Handy and Wang (2001)) is applied to the $H_\alpha \equiv P^2 + iX^3 + i\alpha X$ Hamiltonian, enabling the algebraic/numerical generation of converging bounds to the complex energies of the $L^2$ states, as argued (through asymptotic methods) by Delabaere and Trinh (J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. {\bf 33} 8771 (2000)).

id: math/0104016
title: Bounds for weight distribution of weakly self-dual codes
authors: Vwani P. Roychowdhury, Farrokh Vatan
comments: 9 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 47, no. 1, Jan. 2001, pp. 393-396
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0104016
abstract: Upper bounds are given for the weight distribution of binary weakly self-dual codes. To get these new bounds, we introduce a novel method of utilizing unitary operations on Hilbert spaces. This method is motivated by recent progress on quantum computing. This new approach leads to much simpler proofs for such genre of bounds on the weight distributions of certain classes of codes. Moreover, in some cases, our bounds are improvements on the earlier bounds. These improvements are achieved, either by extending the range of the weights over which the bounds apply, or by extending the class of codes subjected to these bounds.

id: math/0104105
title: Irreducible representations of Upq[gl(2/2)]
authors: Nguyen Anh Ky
comments: Latex, 8 pages. A reference added in v.2
journal: J.Phys.A34:7881-7888,2001
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0104105
abstract: The two-parametric quantum superalgebra $U_{pq}[gl(2/2)]$ and its representations are considered. All finite-dimensional irreducible representations of this quantum superalgebra can be constructed and classified into typical and nontypical ones according to a proposition proved in the present paper. This proposition is a nontrivial deformation from the one for the classical superalgebra gl(2/2), unlike the case of one-parametric deformations.

id: nlin/0104007
title: Wave particle duality: Merging de Broglie's ''double solution'' waves into (3+0)D electromagnetic solitons
authors: Jacques Moret-Bailly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0104007
abstract: The well known light filaments, are obtained in various media whose index of refraction increases before a saturation with the electric field; adding a small perturbation which increases the index with the magnetic field, and neglecting the absorption, a filament curves and closes into a torus. This transformation of a (2+1)D soliton into a (3+0)D soliton shows the existence of those solitons, while a complete study, with a larger magnetic effect, would require numerical computations, the starting point being, possibly, the perturbed, curved filament. The flux of energy in the regular filaments is nearly a ''critical flux'', depending slightly on the external fields, so that the energy of the (3+0)D soliton is quantified, but may be slightly changed by external interactions. The creation of electron positron pairs in the vacuum by purely electromagnetic fields shows a nonlinearity of vacuum at high energies; supposing this nonlinearity convenient, elementary particles may be (3+0)D solitons. Set that the nearly linear part of the soliton is the $\Psi$ wave while the remainder, (the torus) is the $u$ wave; if the torus is not absorbed by Young slits, it is guided by the transmitted, interfering remainder of the $\Psi$ wave.

id: nucl-th/0104085
title: An exact stochastic mean-field approach to the fermionic many-body problem
authors: O. Juillet, Ph. Chomaz, D. Lacroix, F. Gulminelli
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 142503
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0104085
abstract: We investigate a reformulation of the dynamics of interacting fermion systems in terms of a stochastic extension of Time Dependent Hartree-Fock equations. The noise is found from a path-integral representation of the evolution operator and allows to interpret the exact N-body state as a coherent average over Slater determinants evolving under the random mean-fied. The full density operator and the expectation value of any observable are then reconstructed using pairs of stochastic uncorrelated wave functions. The imaginary time propagation is also presented and gives a similar stochastic one-body scheme which converges to the exact ground state without developing a sign problem. In addition, the growth of statistical errors is examined to show that the stochastic formulation never explode in a finite dimensional one-body space. Finally, we consider initially correlated systems and present some numerical implementations in exactly soluble models to analyse the precision and the stability of the approach in practical cases.

id: physics/0104007
title: Information-theoretic approach to the study of control systems
authors: Hugo Touchette, Seth Lloyd
comments: 18 pages, 7 eps figures
journal: Physica A 331, 140-172, 2004
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0104007
abstract: We propose an information-theoretic framework for analyzing control systems based on the close relationship of controllers to communication channels. A communication channel takes an input state and transforms it into an output state. A controller, similarly, takes the initial state of a system to be controlled and transforms it into a target state. In this sense, a controller can be thought of as an actuation channel that acts on inputs to produce desired outputs. In this transformation process, two different control strategies can be adopted: (i) the controller applies an actuation dynamics that is independent of the state of the system to be controlled (open-loop control); or (ii) the controller enacts an actuation dynamics that is based on some information about the state of the controlled system (closed-loop control). Using this communication channel model of control, we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a system to be perfectly controllable and perfectly observable in terms of information and entropy. In addition, we derive a quantitative trade-off between the amount of information gathered by a closed-loop controller and its relative performance advantage over an open-loop controller in stabilizing a system. This work supplements earlier results [H. Touchette, S. Lloyd, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 1156 (2000)] by providing new derivations of the advantage afforded by closed-loop control and by proposing an information-based optimality criterion for control systems. New applications of this approach pertaining to proportional controllers, and the control of chaotic maps are also presented.

id: physics/0104043
title: Coherent control of superfluidity in a Fermi gas of atoms
authors: Matt Mackie, Jyrki Piilo, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Juha Javanainen
comments: 2 pages, 1 table, 17 references; submission pending decision on venue; revised version: 3 pages, 23 refs, corrects mistaken attempt at one-laser phase control with switch to detuning control- conclusions unchanged; submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0104043
abstract: We theoretically examine photoassociation of a two-component Fermi degenerate gas, focusing on light-induced atom-atom interactions as a means to raise the critical temperature of the BCS transition to a superfluid state. As it stands, photoassociation-induced superfluidity is limited by spontaneous decay to experimentally inconvenient light intensities [Mackie et al., Opt. Express 8, 118 (2000)]. We therefore propose to use coherent control in photoassociation to a pair of molecular levels to cancel spontaneous emission, whereby the BCS transition should occur within reach of current experimental techniques.

