id: quant-ph/0105001
title: Why Genetic Information Processing could have a Quantum Basis
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 6 pages, latex, formatted according to journal style. This is an introductory article, aimed at biologists. (v2) Minor grammatical changes. Title slightly modified. Published version
journal: Journal of Biosciences 26 (2001) 145-151
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Genomics (q-bio.GN)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105001
abstract: Living organisms are not just random collections of organic molecules. There is continuous information processing going on in the apparent bouncing around of molecules of life. Optimisation criteria in this information processing can be searched for using the laws of physics. Quantum dynamics can explain why living organisms have 4 nucleotide bases and 20 amino acids, as optimal solutions of the molecular assembly process. Experiments should be able to tell whether evolution indeed took advantage of quantum dynamics or not.

id: quant-ph/0105002
title: Of Some Theoretical Significance: Implications of Casimir Effects
authors: G. Jordan Maclay, Heidi Fearn, Peter W. Milonni
comments: 
journal: Eur.J.Phys. 22 (2001) 463-469
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105002
abstract: In his autobiography Casimir barely mentioned the Casimir effect, but remarked that it is "of some theortical significance." We will describe some aspects of Casimir effects that appear to be of particular significance now, more than half a century after Casimir's famous paper.

id: quant-ph/0105003
title: Ponderomotive entangling of atomic motions
authors: Stefano Mancini, Sougato Bose
comments: Revtex file, five pages, two eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 032308 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105003
abstract: We propose the use of ponderomotive forces to entangle the motions of different atoms. Two situations are analyzed: one where the atoms belong to the same optical cavity and interact with the same radiation field mode; the other where each atom is placed in own optical cavity and the output field of one cavity enters the other.

id: quant-ph/0105004
title: The Quantum Zeno Effect - Evolution of an Atom Impeded by Measurement
authors: Chr. Balzer, R. Huesmann, W. Neuhauser, P.E. Toschek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 26 references
journal: Opt. Comm. 180 (2000) 115-120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105004
abstract: The evolution of a quantum system is supposed to be impeded by measurement of an involved observable. This effect has been proven indistinguishable from the effect of dephasing the system's wave function, except in an individual quantum system. The coherent dynamics, on an optical E2 line, of a single trapped ion driven by light of negligible phase drift has been alternated with interrogations of the internal ion state. Retardation of the ion's nutation, equivalent to the quantum Zeno effect, is demonstrated in the statistics of sequences of probe-light scattering ''on'' and ''off'' detections, the latter representing back-action-free measurement.

id: quant-ph/0105005
title: Quantum Period Query Proves NP in BQP
authors: Philippe Jorrand, Mehdi Mhalla
comments: Withdrawn by the authors. Since the elements within each period of function hA are not distinct, period finding cannot operate properly. Thanks to all for the comments and sorry for the inconvenience
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105005
abstract: Withdrawn by the authors. Since the elements within each period of function hA are not distinct, period finding cannot operate properly. Thanks to all for the comments and sorry for the inconvenience.

id: quant-ph/0105006
title: Effect of noise on geometric logic gates for quantum computation
authors: A. Blais, A.-M.S. Tremblay
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105006
abstract: We introduce the non-adiabatic, or Aharonov-Anandan, geometric phase as a tool for quantum computation and show how it could be implemented with superconducting charge qubits. While it may circumvent many of the drawbacks related to the adiabatic (Berry) version of geometric gates, we show that the effect of fluctuations of the control parameters on non-adiabatic phase gates is more severe than for the standard dynamic gates. Similarly, fluctuations also affect to a greater extent quantum gates that use the Berry phase instead of the dynamic phase.

id: quant-ph/0105007
title: Geometry of mixed states and degeneracy structure of geometric phases for multi-level quantum systems. A unitary group approach
authors: E. Ercolessi, G. Marmo, G. Morandi, N. Mukunda
comments: Latex, 27 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105007
abstract: We analyze the geometric aspects of unitary evolution of general states for a multilevel quantum system by exploiting the structure of coadjoint orbits in the unitary group Lie algebra. Using the same method in the case of SU(3) we study the effect of degeneracies on geometric phases for three-level systems. This is shown to lead to a highly nontrivial generalization of the result for two-level systems in which degeneracy results in a "monopole" structure in parameter space. The rich structures that arise are related to the geometry of adjoint orbits in SU(3). The limiting case of a two-level degeneracy in a three-level system is shown to lead to the known monopole structure.

id: quant-ph/0105008
title: A Clarification on the Detection of Aharanov-Anandan's phase and fault tolerate computation with symmetric SQUID
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin, Matsumoto Keiji
comments: A reply to quant-ph/0104127 by Alexander Blais and Andre-Marie S. 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105008
abstract: We point out that our scheme in manuscript quant-ph/0104127 is misunderstood by Alexander Blais and Andre-Marie S. Tremblay in their recent e-print quant-ph/0105006.

id: quant-ph/0105009
title: Quantum Boltzmann statistics in interacting systems
authors: Luigi Accardi, Sergei Kozyrev
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX 2.09, Talk given at QP workshop in Cottbus, March 2001
journal: In: Quantum Probability and Infinite-Dimensional Analysis. Vol. 15. P.21--28. 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105009
abstract: Collective operators that describe interaction of generic quantum system with discrete spectrum with a quantum field are investigated. These operators, considered as operators in the entangled Fock space (space generated by action of collective creations on the vacuum) in the stochastic limit satisfy a particular kind of Quantum Boltzmann (or free) commutational relations. This clarifies a general phenomenon of arising of Quantum Boltzmann relations in interacting systems.

id: quant-ph/0105010
title: Klein Paradox for Optical Scattering from Excited Targets
authors: O. Panella, Y.N. Srivastava, A. Widom
comments: ReVTeX 3.1 Format, 5 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105010
abstract: The well known Klein paradox for the relativistic Dirac wave equation consists in the computation of possible ``negative probabilities'' induced by certain potentials in some regimes of energy. The paradox may be resolved employing the notion of electron-positron pair production in which the number of electrons present in a process can increase. The Klein paradox also exists in Maxwell's equations viewed as the wave equation for photons. In a medium containing ``inverted energy populations'' of excited atoms, e.g. in a LASER medium, one may again compute possible ``negative probabilities''. The resolution of the electromagnetic Klein paradox is that when the atoms decay, the final state may contain more photons then were contained the initial state. The optical theorem total cross section for scattering photons from excited state atoms may then be computed as negative within a frequency band with matter induced amplification.

id: quant-ph/0105011
title: Space Rotation Invariance
authors: Andrey V. Novikov-Borodin
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105011
abstract: The space rotation invariance hypothesis is examined. The basic space-time properties and the physical object description from this point of view are considered. An $\omega$-invariance as an approximation of the space rotation invariance hypothesis is introduced. It is shown that on frames of the $\omega$-invariance it is possible to describe the ``wave'' properties of elementary particles and to get the basic quantum mechanics equations, such as Schr\"odinger and Klein-Gordon-Fock equations. The correlation between the space rotation objects and models of the elementary particles, quarks and even nuclei is found. The problems of metrics and gravitation from the space rotation invariance point of view are discussed. The introduced hypothesis may be a foundation of the theory of the Unification.

id: quant-ph/0105012
title: On the Equivalence Principle of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105012
abstract: A recent concept in theoretical physics, motivated in string duality and M-theory, is the notion that not all quantum theories arise from quantising a classical system. Also, a given quantum model may possess more than just one classical limit. In view of these developments, we analyse some general properties that quantum mechanics must satisfy, if it is not to be formulated as a quantisation of a given classical mechanics. Instead, our approach to quantum mechanics is modelled on a statement that is close in spirit to the equivalence principle of general relativity, thus bearing a strong resemblance with the equivalence principle of quantum mechanics formulated by Faraggi-Matone.

id: quant-ph/0105013
title: The running of the Universe and the quantum structure of time
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 24 pages, 7 eps figures, typos amended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105013
abstract: Some principles underpinning the running of the Universe are discussed. The most important, the machine principle, states that the Universe is a fully autonomous, self-organizing and self-testing quantum automaton. Continuous space and time, consciousness and the semi-classical observers of quantum mechanics are all emergent phenomena not operating at the fundamental level of the machine Universe. Quantum processes define the present, the interface between the future and the past, giving a time ordering to the running of the Universe which is non-integrable except on emergent scales. A diagrammatic approach is used to discuss the quantum topology of the EPR paradox, particle decays and scattering processes. A toy model of a self-referential universe is given.

id: quant-ph/0105014
title: Remarkable relations for the expectation values of simultaneous action of the kinetic and potential energy operators on Schrodinger wavefunctions
authors: Daniel Joubert
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105014
abstract: Witdrawn. Error in Eq.(14).

id: quant-ph/0105015
title: Inequivalent classes of interference experiments with non-abelian anyons
authors: B. J. Overbosch, F. A. Bais
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A64 (2001) 062107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105015
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of inequivalent classes of interference experiments with non-abelian anyons using an idealized Mach-Zender type interferometer. Because of the non-abelian nature of the braid group action one has to distinguish the different possibilities in which the experiment can be repeated, which lead to different interference patterns. We show that each setup will, after repeated measurement, lead to a situation where the two-particle (or multi-particle) state gets locked into an eigenstate of some well defined operator. Also the probability to end up in such an eigenstate is calculated. Some representative examples are worked out in detail.

id: quant-ph/0105016
title: Unambiguous Discrimination Between Linearly Dependent States with Multiple Copies
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: 12 Pages RevTeX 4, 1 EPS figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105016
abstract: A set of quantum states can be unambiguously discriminated if and only if they are linearly independent. However, for a linearly dependent set, if C copies of the state are available, then the resulting C particle states may form a linearly independent set, and be amenable to unambiguous discrimination. We obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for the possibility of unambiguous discrimination between N states given that C copies are available and that the single copies span a D dimensional space. These conditions are found to be identical for qubits. We then examine in detail the linearly dependent trine ensemble. The set of C>1 copies of each state is a set of linearly independent lifted trine states. The maximum unambiguous discrimination probability is evaluated for all C>1 with equal a priori probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0105017
title: The Uniqueness Theorem for Entanglement Measures
authors: Matthew J. Donald, Michal Horodecki, Oliver Rudolph
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX, version accepted by J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 4252-4272
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105017
abstract: We explore and develop the mathematics of the theory of entanglement measures. After a careful review and analysis of definitions, of preliminary results, and of connections between conditions on entanglement measures, we prove a sharpened version of a uniqueness theorem which gives necessary and sufficient conditions for an entanglement measure to coincide with the reduced von Neumann entropy on pure states. We also prove several versions of a theorem on extreme entanglement measures in the case of mixed states. We analyse properties of the asymptotic regularization of entanglement measures proving, for example, convexity for the entanglement cost and for the regularized relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0105018
title: Robust control in the quantum domain
authors: Andrew Doherty, John Doyle, Hideo Mabuchi, Kurt Jacobs, Salman Habib
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Proceedings of the 39th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, p949 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105018
abstract: Recent progress in quantum physics has made it possible to perform experiments in which individual quantum systems are monitored and manipulated in real time. The advent of such new technical capabilities provides strong motivation for the development of theoretical and experimental methodologies for quantum feedback control. The availability of such methods would enable radically new approaches to experimental physics in the quantum realm. Likewise, the investigation of quantum feedback control will introduce crucial new considerations to control theory, such as the uniquely quantum phenomena of entanglement and measurement back-action. The extension of established analysis techniques from control theory into the quantum domain may also provide new insight into the dynamics of complex quantum systems. We anticipate that the successful formulation of an input-output approach to the analysis and reduction of large quantum systems could have very general applications in non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics and in the nascent field of quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0105019
title: Partial recovery of entanglement in bipartite entanglement transformations
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Vwani Roychowdhury, Farrokh Vatan
comments: Significantly revised version; proofs have been completely rewritten to make them more accessible. To appear in Physical Review A [Rapid Communications]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105019
abstract: Any deterministic bipartite entanglement transformation involving finite copies of pure states and carried out using local operations and classical communication (LOCC) results in a net loss of entanglement. We show that for almost all such transformations, partial recovery of lost entanglement is achievable by using $2 \times 2$ auxiliary entangled states, no matter how large the dimensions of the parent states are. For the rest of the special cases of deterministic LOCC transformations, we show that the dimension of the auxiliary entangled state depends on the presence of equalities in the majorization relations of the parent states. We show that genuine recovery is still possible using auxiliary states in dimensions less than that of the parent states for all patterns of majorization relations except only one special case.

id: quant-ph/0105020
title: On Bell's Paradox
authors: Bart Jongejan
comments: 13 pages, TeX, 2 figures (stereograms)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105020
abstract: The correlations between the outcomes of pairs of spin component measurements on particles in the singlet state exist and can be observed independently of any a priori given frame of reference. We can even construct a frame of reference that is based on these correlations. This observation-based frame of reference is equivalent to the customary a priori given frame of reference of the laboratory when describing real Bohm-Aharonov experiments. J.S. Bell has argued that local hidden parameter theories that reproduce the predictions of Quantum Mechanics cannot exist, but the counterfactual reasoning leading to Bell's conclusion is physically meaningless if the frame of reference that is based on spin component measurements is accepted as the backdrop for Bohm-Aharonov experiments. The refutal of Bell's proof opens up for the construction of a viable hidden parameter theory. A model of a spin h/2 particle in terms of a non-flat metric of space-time is shown to allow the predictions of quantum mechanics in the Bohm-Aharonov experiment to be reproduced, without introducing non-locality.

id: quant-ph/0105021
title: Spin-orbit pendulum in Dirac oscillator
authors: M. Turek, P. Rozmej
comments: LaTeX2e, 12 pages, 3 postscript figures, 6 jpeg figures
journal: Zeszyty Naukowe Politechniki Zielonogorskiej, Vol. 126, (2001) p.83-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105021
abstract: The dynamics of wavepackets in a relativistic Dirac oscillator (DO) is considered. A comparison to nonrelativistic spin-orbit pendulum effect is discussed. Particular relativistic effects, like Zitterbewegung in spin motion, are found in Dirac representation. This trembling motion disappears in Foldy-Wouthuysen representation. A substantial difference between the dynamics of wavepackets corresponding to circular and linear orbits of a particle is obtained and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0105022
title: Quantum Dot Cavity-QED in the Presence of Strong Electron-Phonon Interactions
authors: I. Wilson-Rae, A. Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. B 65, 235311 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105022
abstract: A quantum dot strongly coupled to a single high finesse optical microcavity mode constitutes a new fundamental system for quantum optics. Here, the effect of exciton-phonon interactions on reversible quantum-dot cavity coupling is analysed without making Born-Markov approximation. The analysis is based on techniques that have been used to study the ``spin boson'' Hamiltonian. Observability of vacuum-Rabi splitting depends on the strength and the frequency dependence of the spectral density function characterizing the interactions with phonons, both of which can be influenced by phonon confinement.

id: quant-ph/0105023
title: High efficiency Nondistortion Quantum Interrogation of atoms in quantum superpositions
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo, Marc J. Feldman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105023
abstract: We consider the nondistortion quantum interrogation (NQI) of an atom prepared in a quantum superposition. By manipulating the polarization of the probe photon and making connections to interaction free measurements of opaque objects, we show that nondistortion interrogation of an atom in a quantum superposition can be done with efficiency approaching unity. However, if any component of the atom's superposition is completely transparent to the probe wave function, a nondistortion interrogation of the atom is impossible.

id: quant-ph/0105024
title: NMR C-NOT gate through Aharanov-Anandan's phase shift
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34, L631(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105024
abstract: Recently, it is proposed to do quantum computation through the Berry's phase(adiabatic cyclic geometric phase) shift with NMR (Jones et al, Nature, 403, 869(2000)). This geometric quantum gate is hopefully to be fault tolerant to certain types of errors because of the geometric property of the Berry phase. Here we give a scheme to realize the NMR C-NOT gate through Aharonov-Anandan's phase(non-adiabatic cyclic phase) shift on the dynamic phase free evolution loop. In our scheme, the gate is run non-adiabatically, thus it is less affected by the decoherence. And, in the scheme we have chosen the the zero dynamic phase time evolution loop in obtaining the gepmetric phase shift, we need not take any extra operation to cancel the dynamic phase.

id: quant-ph/0105025
title: Electron State Entanglement at Double Ionization
authors: V O Hnatovsky, C V Usenko
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105025
abstract: Electron wave function entanglement and spin reconfiguration as source of electron correlation are investigated. Properties of correlation function are shown to have the best concordance with experimental data under supposition that probability of change of electron state to triplet state is about 0.5 or more.

id: quant-ph/0105026
title: Lossless quantum data compression and variable-length coding
authors: Kim Bostroem, Timo Felbinger
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032313 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105026
abstract: In order to compress quantum messages without loss of information it is necessary to allow the length of the encoded messages to vary. We develop a general framework for variable-length quantum messages in close analogy to the classical case and show that lossless compression is only possible if the message to be compressed is known to the sender. The lossless compression of an ensemble of messages is bounded from below by its von-Neumann entropy. We show that it is possible to reduce the number of qbits passing through a quantum channel even below the von-Neumann entropy by adding a classical side-channel. We give an explicit communication protocol that realizes lossless and instantaneous quantum data compression and apply it to a simple example. This protocol can be used for both online quantum communication and storage of quantum data.

id: quant-ph/0105027
title: 'Beyond quantum theory: a realist psycho-biological interpretation of reality' revisited
authors: Brian D. Josephson
comments: 6 pages. Invited contribution to the forthcoming issue of BioSystems in memory of Michael Conrad. Now includes links to references on the Web
journal: Biosystems 64 (1-3), pp. 43-45, Jan. 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105027
abstract: It is hypothesised, following Conrad et al. (1988) (this http URL) that quantum physics is not the ultimate theory of nature, but merely a theoretical account of the phenomena manifested in nature under particular conditions. These phenomena parallel cognitive phenomena in biosystems in a number of ways and are assumed to arise from related mechanisms. Quantum and biological accounts are complementary in the sense of Bohr and quantum accounts may be incomplete. In particular, following ideas of Stapp, 'the observer' is a system that, while lying outside the descriptive capacities of quantum mechanics, creates observable phenomena such as wave function collapse through its probing activities. Better understanding of such processes may pave the way to new science.

id: quant-ph/0105028
title: Classical, quantum and total correlations
authors: L. Henderson, V. Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105028
abstract: We discuss the problem of separating consistently the total correlations in a bipartite quantum state into a quantum and a purely classical part. A measure of classical correlations is proposed and its properties are explored.

id: quant-ph/0105029
title: Decoherence of quantum registers
authors: John H. Reina, Luis Quiroga, Neil F. Johnson
comments: Typos corrected. Discussion and references added. 1 figure + 3 tables added. This updated version contains 13 (double column) pages + 8 figures. PRA in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032326 (2002). Also selected for publication in the March 2002 issue of the Virtual Journal of Quantum Information (http://www.vjquantuminfo.org).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105029
abstract: The dynamical evolution of a quantum register of arbitrary length coupled to an environment of arbitrary coherence length is predicted within a relevant model of decoherence. The results are reported for quantum bits (qubits) coupling individually to different environments (`independent decoherence') and qubits interacting collectively with the same reservoir (`collective decoherence'). In both cases, explicit decoherence functions are derived for any number of qubits. The decay of the coherences of the register is shown to strongly depend on the input states: we show that this sensitivity is a characteristic of $both$ types of coupling (collective and independent) and not only of the collective coupling, as has been reported previously. A non-trivial behaviour ("recoherence") is found in the decay of the off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix in the specific situation of independent decoherence. Our results lead to the identification of decoherence-free states in the collective decoherence limit. These states belong to subspaces of the system's Hilbert space that do not get entangled with the environment, making them ideal elements for the engineering of ``noiseless'' quantum codes. We also discuss the relations between decoherence of the quantum register and computational complexity based on the new dynamical results obtained for the register density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0105030
title: A QES Band-Structure Problem in One Dimension
authors: Avinash Khare
comments: some corrections made, title slightly changed
journal: Phys.Lett. A288 (2001) 69-72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105030
abstract: I show that the potential $$V(x,m) = \big [\frac{b^2}{4}-m(1-m)a(a+1) \big ]\frac{\sn^2 (x,m)}{\dn^2 (x,m)} -b(a+{1/2}) \frac{\cn (x,m)}{\dn^2 (x,m)}$$ constitutes a QES band-structure problem in one dimension. In particular, I show that for any positive integral or half-integral $a$, $2a+1$ band edge eigenvalues and eigenfunctions can be obtained analytically. In the limit of m going to 0 or 1, I recover the well known results for the QES double sine-Gordon or double sinh-Gordon equations respectively. As a by product, I also obtain the boundstate eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the potential $$V(x) = \big [\frac{\beta^2}{4}-a(a+1) \big ] \sech^2 x +\beta(a+{1/2})\sech x\tanh x$$ in case $a$ is any positive integer or half-integer.

id: quant-ph/0105031
title: Representation of Joint Measurement in Quantum Mechanics. A Refutation of Quantum Teleportation
authors: Guillaume Adenier
comments: RevTex4, 9 pages, no figures. Section 4 on Quantum Teleportation expanded and explicited. Minor modifications in other sections. New references added. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105031
abstract: An inconsistency is pointed out within Quantum Mechanics as soon as successive joint measurements are involved on entangled states. The resolution of the inconsistency leads to a refutation of the use of entangled states as eigenvectors. Hence, the concept of quantum teleportation, which is based on the use of such entangled states--the Bell states--as eigenvectors, is demonstrated to be irrelevant to Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0105032
title: Quantum Digital Signatures
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Isaac Chuang
comments: 8 pages. v2 is substantially expanded, with additional details and explanation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105032
abstract: We present a quantum digital signature scheme whose security is based on fundamental principles of quantum physics. It allows a sender (Alice) to sign a message in such a way that the signature can be validated by a number of different people, and all will agree either that the message came from Alice or that it has been tampered with. To accomplish this task, each recipient of the message must have a copy of Alice's "public key," which is a set of quantum states whose exact identity is known only to Alice. Quantum public keys are more difficult to deal with than classical public keys: for instance, only a limited number of copies can be in circulation, or the scheme becomes insecure. However, in exchange for this price, we achieve unconditionally secure digital signatures. Sending an m-bit message uses up O(m) quantum bits for each recipient of the public key. We briefly discuss how to securely distribute quantum public keys, and show the signature scheme is absolutely secure using one method of key distribution. The protocol provides a model for importing the ideas of classical public key cryptography into the quantum world.

id: quant-ph/0105033
title: Characteristic decay of the autocorrelation functions prescribed by the Aharonov-Bohm time operator
authors: Manabu Miyamoto
comments: 17 pages, REVTeX style file. Some relevant references are added in Sec. 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105033
abstract: The wave functions, the autocorrelation functions of which decay faster than $t^{-2}$, for both the one-dimensional free particle system and the repulsive-potential system are examined. It is then shown that such wave functions constitute a dense subset of $L^2 ({\bf R}^1)$, under several conditions that are particularly satisfied by the square barrier potential system. It implies that the faster than $t^{-2}$-decay character of the autocorrelation function persists against the perturbation of potential. It is also seen that the denseness of the above subset is guaranteed by that of the domain of the Aharonov-Bohm time operator.

id: quant-ph/0105034
title: Four-photon Entanglement as Stochastic-signal Correlation
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 4 pages revtex4, 2 eps figs + 1 ps fig; v3: streamlining & wordsmithing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105034
abstract: A fully classical model of a recent experiment exhibiting what is interpreted as teleportation and four-photon entanglement is described. It is shown that the reason that a classical model is possible, contrary to the current belief, results ultimately from a misguided modification by Bohm of the EPR Gedanken experiment. Finally, teleportation is reinterpreted as the passive filtration of correlated but stochastic events in stead of the active transfer of either material or information.

id: quant-ph/0105035
title: A More General Quantum Searching Algorithm And the Precise Formula of the Amplitude and the Non-symmetric Effects of Different Rotating Angles
authors: Dafa Li, Xinxin Li
comments: 13 pages, misusing tex formatting commands in title, shorted the titles, corrected typos, added the justifications to the section 2
journal: Published in Phys. Lett. A 287/5-6, pp304-316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105035
abstract: This paper presented two general quantum search algorithms. We derived the iterated formulas and the simpler approximate formulas and the precise formula for the amplitude in the desired state. A mathematical proof of Grover's algorithm being optimal among the algorithms with arbitrary phase rotations was given in this paper. This first reported the non-symmetric effects of different rotating angles, and gave the first-order approximate phase condition when rotating angles are different.

id: quant-ph/0105036
title: Are Number and Phase Complementary Observables?
authors: Paul Busch, Pekka Lahti, Juha-Pekka Pellonpaa, Kari Ylinen
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Mat. Gen. 34 (2001) 5923-5935
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105036
abstract: We study various ways of characterising the quantum optical number and phase as complementary observables.

id: quant-ph/0105037
title: Optimal quantum measurements for spin-1 and spin-3/2 particles
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Some small slips have been corrected and some new references added
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.1,No.3,pp.52-61 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105037
abstract: Positive operator valued measures (POVMs) are presented that allow an unknown pure state of a spin-1 particle to be determined with optimal fidelity when 2 to 5 copies of that state are available. Optimal POVMs are also presented for a spin-3/2 particle when 2 or 3 copies of the unknown state are available. Although these POVMs are optimal they are not always minimal, indicating that there is room for improvement.

id: quant-ph/0105038
title: Controlled transfer of quantum amplitude via modulation of a potential barrier: numerical study in a model of SQUID
authors: M. Crogan, S. Khlebnikov, G. Sadiek
comments: 4 pages, revtex, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105038
abstract: We numerically integrate the time-dependent Schrodinger equation in a single-degree-of-freedom model of SQUID with a variable potential barrier between the basis flux states. We find that linear superpositions of the basis states, with relatively little residual excitation, can be formed by pulsed modulations of the barrier, provided the pulse duration exceeds the period of small oscillations of the flux. Two pulses applied in sequence exhibit strong interference effects, which we propose to use for an experimental determination of the decoherence time in SQUIDs.

id: quant-ph/0105039
title: Notes on a Paulian Idea: Foundational, Historical, Anecdotal and Forward-Looking Thoughts on the Quantum
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, N. David Mermin
comments: 504 pages including introduction, table of contents, and index of names; no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105039
abstract: This document is the first installment of three in the Cerro Grande Fire Series. It is a collection of letters written to various colleagues, most of whom regularly circuit this archive, including Howard Barnum, Paul Benioff, Charles Bennett, Herbert Bernstein, Doug Bilodeau, Gilles Brassard, Jeffrey Bub, Carlton Caves, Gregory Comer, Robert Griffiths, Adrian Kent, Rolf Landauer, Hideo Mabuchi, David Mermin, David Meyer, Michael Nielsen, Asher Peres, John Preskill, Mary Beth Ruskai, Ruediger Schack, Abner Shimony, William Wootters, Anton Zeilinger, and many others. The singular thread sewing all the letters together is the quantum. Some of the pieces are my best efforts to date to give substance to an evanescent thought I see rising from the field of quantum information---I call it the Paulian idea. To the extent I have communicated its misty shadow to my correspondents and seen a twinkle of enthusiasm, it seemed worthwhile to expand the jury on this anniversary occasion.

id: quant-ph/0105040
title: Opposite Arrows of Time Can Reconcile Relativity and Nonlocality
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; v5: section headlines added
journal: Classical and Quantum Gravity 20 (2003) 557-564
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105040
abstract: We present a quantum model for the motion of N point particles, implying nonlocal (i.e., superluminal) influences of external fields on the trajectories, that is nonetheless fully relativistic. In contrast to other models that have been proposed, this one involves no additional space-time structure as would be provided by a (possibly dynamical) foliation of space-time. This is achieved through the interplay of opposite microcausal and macrocausal (i.e., thermodynamic) arrows of time.

id: quant-ph/0105041
title: Polarization of Radiation in Multipole Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: Muhammet Ali Can, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105041
abstract: We discuss the spatial properties of quantum radiation emitted by a multipole transition in a single atom. The qualitative difference between the representations of plane and spherical waves of photons is examined. In particular, the spatial inhomogeneity of the zero-point oscillations of multipole field is shown. We show that the vacuum noise of polarization is concentrated in a certain vicinity of atoms where it strongly exceeds the level predicted by the representation of the plane waves. A new general polarization matrix is proposed. It is shown that the polarization and its vacuum noise strongly depend on the distance from the source.

id: quant-ph/0105042
title: Information capacity formula of quantum optical channels
authors: Masaki Sohma, Osamu Hirota
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105042
abstract: The applications of the general formulae of channel capacity developed in the quantum information theory to evaluation of information transmission capacity of optical channel are interesting subjects. In this review paper, we will point out that the formulation based on only classical-quantum channel mapping model may be inadequate when one takes into account a power constraint for noisy channel. To define the power constraint well, we should explicitly consider how quantum states are conveyed through a transmission channel. Basing on such consideration, we calculate a capacity formula for an attenuated noisy optical channel with genreral Gaussian state input; this gives certain progress beyond the example in our former paper.

id: quant-ph/0105043
title: Symmetric photon-photon coupling by atoms with Zeeman-split sublevels
authors: David Petrosyan, Gershon Kurizki
comments: Modified scheme, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105043
abstract: We propose a simple scheme for highly efficient nonlinear interaction between two weak optical fields. The scheme is based on the attainment of electromagnetically induced transparency simultaneously for both fields via transitions between magnetically split F=1 atomic sublevels, in the presence of two driving fields. Thereby, equal slow group velocities and symmetric cross-coupling of the weak fields over long distances are achieved. By simply tuning the fields, this scheme can either yield giant cross-phase modulation or ultrasensitive two-photon switching.

id: quant-ph/0105044
title: Some Exact Results for Mid-Band and Zero Band-Gap States of Associated Lame Potentials
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 42 (2001) 5652-5664
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105044
abstract: Applying certain known theorems about one-dimensional periodic potentials, we show that the energy spectrum of the associated Lam\'{e} potentials $$a(a+1)m~{\rm sn}^2(x,m)+b(b+1)m~{\rm cn}^2(x,m)/{\rm dn}^2(x,m)$$ consists of a finite number of bound bands followed by a continuum band when both $a$ and $b$ take integer values. Further, if $a$ and $b$ are unequal integers, we show that there must exist some zero band-gap states, i.e. doubly degenerate states with the same number of nodes. More generally, in case $a$ and $b$ are not integers, but either $a + b$ or $a - b$ is an integer ($a \ne b$), we again show that several of the band-gaps vanish due to degeneracy of states with the same number of nodes. Finally, when either $a$ or $b$ is an integer and the other takes a half-integral value, we obtain exact analytic solutions for several mid-band states.

id: quant-ph/0105045
title: Orchestrating an NMR quantum computation: the N=3 Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: David Collins, K. W. Kim, W. C. Holton, H. Sierzputowska-Gracz, E. O. Stejskal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105045
abstract: A detailed description of the development of a three qubit NMR realization of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm [Collins et.al., Phys. Rev. A 62, 022304 (2000)] is provided. The theoretical and experimental techniques used for the reduction of the algorithm's evolution steps into a sequence of NMR pulses are discussed at length. This includes the description of general pulse sequence compilation techniques, various schemes for indirectly coupled gate realizations, experimental pulse parameterization techniques and bookkeeping methods for pulse phases.

id: quant-ph/0105046
title: Finding a state in a haystack
authors: Niko Donath, Karl Svozil
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physical Review A 66, 044302 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105046
abstract: We consider the problem to single out a particular state among $2^n$ orthogonal pure states. As it turns out, in general the optimal strategy is not to measure the particles separately, but to consider joint properties of the $n$-particle system. The required number of propositions is $n$. There exist $2^n!$ equivalent operational procedures to do so. We enumerate some configurations for three particles, in particular the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ)- and W-states, which are specific cases of a unitary transformation For the GHZ-case, an explicit physical meaning of the projection operators is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0105047
title: Variational Sturmian Approximation: A nonperturbative method of solving time-independent Schr?dinger equation
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Math. Phys., 18 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42 (2001) 3372-3389
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105047
abstract: A variationally improved Sturmian approximation for solving time-independent Schr\"odinger equation is developed. This approximation is used to obtain the energy levels of a quartic anharmonic oscillator, a quartic potential, and a Gaussian potential. The results are compared with those of the perturbation theory, the WKB approximation, and the accurate numerical values.

id: quant-ph/0105048
title: An optical kaleidoscope using a single atom
authors: P. Horak, H. Ritsch, T. Fischer, P. Maunz, T. Puppe, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 043601 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105048
abstract: A new method to track the motion of a single particle in the field of a high-finesse optical resonator is described. It exploits near-degenerate higher-order Gaussian cavity modes, whose symmetry is broken by the phase shift on the light induced by the particle. Observation of the spatial intensity distribution behind the cavity allows direct determination of the particle's position with approximately wavelength accuracy. This is demonstrated by generating a realistic atomic trajectory using a semiclassical simulation including friction and diffusion and comparing it to the reconstructed path. The path reconstruction itself requires no knowledge about the forces on the particle.

id: quant-ph/0105049
title: The Time-Energy Uncertainty Relation
authors: P. Busch
comments: 33 pages, Latex. This expanded version (prepared for the 2nd edition of "Time in quantum mechanics") contains minor corrections, new examples and pointers to some additional relevant literature
journal: Time in Quantum Mechanics, eds. J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato, I.L. Egusquiza, Springer-Verlag, Berlin (2002) pp. 69-98. 2nd rev. ed. 2008, pp. 73-105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105049
abstract: The time energy uncertainty relation has been a controversial issue since the advent of quantum theory, with respect to appropriate formalisation, validity and possible meanings. A comprehensive account of the development of this subject up to the 1980s is provided by a combination of the reviews of Jammer (1974), Bauer and Mello (1978), and Busch (1990). More recent reviews are concerned with different specific aspects of the subject. The purpose of this chapter is to show that different types of time energy uncertainty relation can indeed be deduced in specific contexts, but that there is no unique universal relation that could stand on equal footing with the position-momentum uncertainty relation. To this end, we will survey the various formulations of a time energy uncertainty relation, with a brief assessment of their validity, and along the way we will indicate some new developments that emerged since the 1990s.

id: quant-ph/0105050
title: Relativity of motion in quantum vacuum
authors: Marc-Thierry Jaekel, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, contribution to MG9 proceedings
journal: The Ninth Marcel Grossmann Meeting, V.G. Gurzadyan, R.T. Jantzen & R. Ruffini eds (World Scientific, 2002) 1447
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105050
abstract: The problem of relativity of motion in quantum vacuum is addressed by considering a cavity moving in vacuum in a monodimensional space. The cavity is an open system which emits photons when it oscillates in vacuum. Qualitatively new effects like pulse shaping in the time domain and frequency conversion in the spectrum may help to discrimate motion-induced radiation from potential stray effects.

id: quant-ph/0105051
title: The Casimir force between metallic mirrors
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Cyriaque Genet, Serge Reynaud
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, contribution to MG9 proceedings
journal: The Ninth Marcel Grossmann Meeting, V.G. Gurzadyan, R.T. Jantzen & R. Ruffini eds (World Scientific, 2002) 1459
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105051
abstract: In order to compare recent experimental results with theoretical predictions we study the influence of finite conductivity of metals on the Casimir effect. The correction to the Casimir force and energy due to imperfect reflection and finite temperature are evaluated for plane metallic plates where the dielectric functions of the metals are modeled by a plasma model. The results are compared with the common approximation where conductivity and thermal corrections are evaluated separately and simply multiplied.

id: quant-ph/0105052
title: Some Worlds of Quantum Theory
authors: Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 42 pages, no figures: a pdf file. A version of this paper will appear in a CTNS/Vatican Observatory volume on Quantum Theory and Divine Action, ed. Robert Russell et al
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105052
abstract: This paper assesses the Everettian approach to the measurement problem, especially the version of that approach advocated by Simon Saunders and David Wallace. I emphasise conceptual, indeed metaphysical, aspects rather than technical ones; but I include an introductory exposition of decoherence. In particular, I discuss whether -- as these authors maintain -- it is acceptable to have no precise definition of 'branch' (in the Everettian kind of sense).

id: quant-ph/0105053
title: Quantum vacuum fluctuations
authors: Serge Reynaud, Astrid Lambrecht, Cyriaque Genet, Marc-Thierry Jaekel
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, contribution to a special issue in CRAS (Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences), corrected typos, added references
journal: C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris, 2-IV (2001) p.1287-1298
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105053
abstract: The existence of irreducible field fluctuations in vacuum is an important prediction of quantum theory. These fluctuations have many observable consequences, like the Casimir effect which is now measured with good accuracy and agreement with theory, provided that the latter accounts for differences between real experiments and the ideal situation considered by Casimir. But the vacuum energy density calculated by adding field mode energies is much larger than the density observed around us through gravitational phenomena. This ``vacuum catastrophe'' is one of the unsolved problems at the interface between quantum theory on one hand, inertial and gravitational phenomena on the other hand. It is however possible to put properly formulated questions in the vicinity of this paradox. These questions are directly connected to observable effects bearing upon the principle of relativity of motion in quantum vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0105054
title: The Interpretation of Quantum-Mechanical Models with Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and Real Spectra
authors: R. Kretschmer, L. Szymanowski
comments: 15 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105054
abstract: We study the quantum-mechanical interpretation of models with non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and real spectra. We set up a general framework for the analysis of such systems in terms of Hermitian Hamiltonians defined in the usual Hilbert space $L_2(-\infty,\infty)$. Special emphasis is put on the correct definition of the algebra of physical observables. Within this scheme we consider various examples, including the model recently introduced by Cannata et al. and the model of Hatano and Nelson.

id: quant-ph/0105055
title: Long-Distance High-Fidelity Teleportation Using Singlet States
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105055
abstract: A quantum communication system is proposed that uses polarization-entangled photons and trapped-atom quantum memories. This system is capable of long-distance, high-fidelity teleportation, and long-duration quantum storage.

id: quant-ph/0105056
title: Fibre bundle formulation of relativistic quantum mechanics. I. Time-dependent approach
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 16 standard LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. The paper continuous the application of fibre bundle formalism to quantum physics began in the series of works quant-ph/9803083, quant-ph/9803084, quant-ph/9804062, quant-ph/9806046, quant-ph/9901039, quant-ph/9902068, and quant-ph/0004041. For related papers, view this http URL
journal: Phys.Scripta 68 (2003) 22-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105056
abstract: We propose a new fibre bundle formulation of the mathematical base of relativistic quantum mechanics. At the present stage the bundle form of the theory is equivalent to its conventional one, but it admits new types of generalizations in different directions. In the present first part of our investigation we consider the time-dependent or Hamiltonian approach to bundle description of relativistic quantum mechanics. In it the wavefunctions are replaced by (state) liftings of paths or sections along paths of a suitably chosen vector bundle over space-time whose (standard) fibre is the space of the wavefunctions. Now the quantum evolution is described as a linear transportation (by means of the evolution transport along paths in the space-time) of the state liftings/sections in the (total) bundle space. The equations of these transportations turn to be the bundle versions of the corresponding relativistic wave equations.

id: quant-ph/0105057
title: Entanglement and the uncertainty principle
authors: G. Rigolin
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105057
abstract: A new uncertainty relation (UR) is obtained for a system of N identical entangled particles if we use symmetrized observables when deriving the inequality. This new expression splits in two parts: the first one is the traditional term that appears in Heisenberg's relation, but the second one represents the fact that we have entangled particles. Without entanglement the new inequality reduces to Heisenberg's uncertainty relation (HUR).

id: quant-ph/0105058
title: Achievable rates for the Gaussian quantum channel
authors: Jim Harrington, John Preskill
comments: 12 pages, 4 eps figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 062301 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105058
abstract: We study the properties of quantum stabilizer codes that embed a finite-dimensional protected code space in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. The stabilizer group of such a code is associated with a symplectically integral lattice in the phase space of 2N canonical variables. From the existence of symplectically integral lattices with suitable properties, we infer a lower bound on the quantum capacity of the Gaussian quantum channel that matches the one-shot coherent information optimized over Gaussian input states.

id: quant-ph/0105059
title: Linear representations of probabilistic transformations induced by context transitions
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Added a physical discussion and new references
journal: J. of Physics,A: Math. and General, 34 (2001) 9965-9981
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105059
abstract: By using straightforward frequency arguments we classify transformations of probabilities which can be generated by transition from one preparation procedure (context) to another. There are three classes of transformations corresponding to statistical deviations of different magnitudes: (a) trigonometric; (b) hyperbolic; (c) hyper-trigonometric. It is shown that not only quantum preparation procedures can have trigonometric probabilistic behaviour. We propose generalizations of ${\bf C}$-linear space probabilistic calculus to describe non quantum (trigonometric and hyperbolic) probabilistic transformations. We also analyse superposition principle in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0105060
title: Quantum mutual entropy for two-level ion in a q-analog trap
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, submitted to JMO
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105060
abstract: Quantum mutual entropy is used as a measure of information content of ionic state due to ion-laser interaction in a q-analog trap. The initial state of the system is a Schrodinger cat state. It is found that the partial mutual entropy is a good measure of the entanglement and purity of the ionic state at $t>0$.

id: quant-ph/0105061
title: Experimental verification of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle for hot fullerene molecules
authors: Olaf Nairz, Markus Arndt, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105061
abstract: The Heisenberg uncertainty principle for material objects is an essential corner stone of quantum mechanics and clearly visualizes the wave nature of matter. Here we report a demonstration of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle for the most massive, complex and hottest single object so far, the fullerene molecule C70 at a temperature of 900 K. We find a good quantitative agreement with the theoretical expectation: dx * dp = h, where dx is the width of the restricting slit, dp is the momentum transfer required to deflect the fullerene to the first interference minimum and h is Planck's quantum of action.

id: quant-ph/0105062
title: Controlled entanglement of two field modes in a Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics experiment
authors: A. Rauschenbeutel, P. Bertet, S. Osnaghi, G. Nogues, M. Brune, J.M. Raimond, S. Haroche
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105062
abstract: Using a single circular Rydberg atom, we have prepared two modes of a superconducting cavity in a maximally entangled state. The two modes share a single photon. This entanglement is revealed by a second atom probing, after a delay, the correlations between the two modes. This experiment opens interesting perspectives for quantum information manipulation and fundamental tests of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0105063
title: Coherent control of an atomic collision in a cavity
authors: S. Osnaghi, P. Bertet, A. Auffeves, P. Maioli, M. Brune, J.M. Raimond, S. Haroche
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105063
abstract: Following a recent proposal by S. B. Zheng and G. C. Guo (Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2392 (2000)), we report an experiment in which two Rydberg atoms crossing a non-resonant cavity are entangled by coherent energy exchange. The process, mediated by the virtual emission and absorption of a microwave photon, is characterized by a collision mixing angle four orders of magnitude larger than for atoms colliding in free space with the same impact parameter. The final entangled state is controlled by adjusting the atom-cavity detuning. This procedure, essentially insensitive to thermal fields and to photon decay, opens promising perspectives for complex entanglement manipulations.

id: quant-ph/0105064
title: Superalgebras for the Penning Trap
authors: Neil Russell
comments: 25 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 42 (2001) 5315-5328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105064
abstract: The hamiltonian describing a single fermion in a Penning trap is shown to be supersymmetric in certain cases. The supersymmetries of interest occur when the ratio of the cyclotron frequency to the axial frequency is 3/2 and the particle has anomalous magnetic moment 4/3 or 2/3. At these supersymmetric points, the spectrum shows uniformly spaced crossed levels. The associated superalgebras are su(2|1) and su(1|1). The phase space for this problem has an osp(2|6) structure and contains all the degeneracy superalgebras.

id: quant-ph/0105065
title: Self-consistent non-Markovian theory of a quantum state evolution for quantum information processing
authors: Doyeol Ahn, Jinhyoung Lee, S. W. Hwang
comments: 5pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105065
abstract: It is shown that the operator sum representation for non-Markovian dynamics and the Lindblad master equation in Markovian limit can be derived from a formal solution to quantum Liouville equation for a qubit system in the presence of decoherence processes self-consistently. Our formulation is the first principle theory based on projection-operator formalism to obtain an exact reduced density operator in time-convolutionless form starting from the quantum Liouville equation for a noisy quantum computer. The advantage of our approach is that it is general enough to describe a realistic quantum computer in the presence of decoherence provided details of the Hamiltonians are known.

id: quant-ph/0105066
title: Moebius Structure of the Spectral Space of Schroedinger Operators with Point Interaction
authors: Izumi Tsutsui, Tamas Fulop, Taksu Cheon
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 42 (2001) 5687-5697
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105066
abstract: The Schroedinger operator with point interaction in one dimension has a U(2) family of self-adjoint extensions. We study the spectrum of the operator and show that (i) the spectrum is uniquely determined by the eigenvalues of the matrix U belonging to U(2) that characterizes the extension, and that (ii) the space of distinct spectra is given by the orbifold T^2/Z_2 which is a Moebius strip with boundary. We employ a parametrization of U(2) that admits a direct physical interpretation and furnishes a coherent framework to realize the spectral duality and anholonomy recently found. This allows us to find that (iii) physically distinct point interactions form a three-parameter quotient space of the U(2) family.

id: quant-ph/0105067
title: General Polarization Matrix of Electromagnetic Radiation
authors: Muhammet Ali Can, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 10 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105067
abstract: A general form of the polarization matrix valid for any type of electromagnetic radiation (plane waves, multipole radiation etc.) is defined in terms of a certain bilinear form in the field-strength tensor. The quantum counterpart is determined as an operator matrix with normal-ordered elements with respect to the creation and annihilation operators. The zero-point oscillations (ZPO) of polarization are defined via difference between the anti-normal and normal ordered operator polarization matrices. It is shown that ZPO of the multipole field are stronger than those described by the model of plane waves and are concentrated in a certain neighborhood of a local source.

id: quant-ph/0105068
title: Dynamics of quantum systems
authors: I. Rotter
comments: 21 pages 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E64:036213,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105068
abstract: A relation between the eigenvalues of an effective Hamilton operator and the poles of the $S$ matrix is derived which holds for isolated as well as for overlapping resonance states. The system may be a many-particle quantum system with two-body forces between the constituents or it may be a quantum billiard without any two-body forces. Avoided crossings of discrete states as well as of resonance states are traced back to the existence of branch points in the complex plane. Under certain conditions, these branch points appear as double poles of the $S$ matrix. They influence the dynamics of open as well as of closed quantum systems. The dynamics of the two-level system is studied in detail analytically as well as numerically.

id: quant-ph/0105069
title: Theory for the photon statistics of random lasers
authors: M. Patra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 043809 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105069
abstract: A theory for the photon statistics of a random laser is presented. Noise is described by Langevin operators, where both fluctuations of the electromagnetic field and of the medium are included. The theory is valid for all lasers with small outcoupling when the laser cavity is large compared to the wavelength of the radiation. The theory is applied to a chaotic laser cavity with a small opening. It is known that a large number of modes can be above threshold simultaneously in such a cavity. It is shown the amount of fluctuations is increased compared to the Poissonian value by an amount that depends on that number.

id: quant-ph/0105070
title: Quadrature-dependent Bogoliubov transformations and multiphoton squeezed states
authors: Silvio De Siena, Antonio Di Lisi, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 063803 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105070
abstract: We introduce a linear, canonical transformation of the fundamental single--mode field operators $a$ and $a^{\dagger}$ that generalizes the linear Bogoliubov transformation familiar in the construction of the harmonic oscillator squeezed states. This generalization is obtained by adding to the linear transformation a nonlinear function of any of the fundamental quadrature operators $X_{1}$ and $X_{2}$, making the original Bogoliubov transformation quadrature--dependent. Remarkably, the conditions of canonicity do not impose any constraint on the form of the nonlinear function, and lead to a set of nontrivial algebraic relations between the $c$--number coefficients of the transformation. We examine in detail the structure and the properties of the new quantum states defined as eigenvectors of the transformed annihilation operator $b$. These eigenvectors define a class of multiphoton squeezed states. The structure of the uncertainty products and of the quasiprobability distributions in phase space shows that besides coherence properties, these states exhibit a squeezing and a deformation (cooling) of the phase--space trajectories, both of which strongly depend on the form of the nonlinear function. The presence of the extra nonlinear term in the phase of the wave functions has also relevant consequences on photon statistics and correlation properties. The non quadratic structure of the associated Hamiltonians suggests that these states be generated in connection with multiphoton processes in media with higher nonlinearities.

id: quant-ph/0105071
title: Quantum Portfolios
authors: Sebastian Maurer, Tad Hogg, Bernardo Huberman
comments: revision includes additional data and corrects minor typos
journal: Physical Review Letters 87, 257901 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105071
abstract: Quantum computation holds promise for the solution of many intractable problems. However, since many quantum algorithms are stochastic in nature they can only find the solution of hard problems probabilistically. Thus the efficiency of the algorithms has to be characterized both by the expected time to completion {\it and} the associated variance. In order to minimize both the running time and its uncertainty, we show that portfolios of quantum algorithms analogous to those of finance can outperform single algorithms when applied to the NP-complete problems such as 3-SAT.

id: quant-ph/0105072
title: Introducing Quantum Discord
authors: Harold Ollivier, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105072
abstract: Two classically identical expressions for the mutual information generally differ when the two systems involved are quantum. We investigate this difference -- quantum discord -- and show that it can be used as a criterion for the classicality of the correlations. We also show that quantum discord can be used for describing the selection of the preferred, effectively classical, pointer states.

id: quant-ph/0105073
title: Quantum Switch for Continuous Variable Teleportation
authors: Junxiang Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105073
abstract: A novel quantum switch for continuous variables teleportation is proposed. Two pairs of EPR beams with identical frequency and constant phase relation are composed on two beamsplitters to produce two pairs of conditional entangled beams, two of which are sent to two sending stations(Alices) and others to two receiving stations(bobs). The EPR entanglement initionally results from two-mode quadrature squeezed state light. Converting the squeezed component of one of EPR sources between amplitude and phase, the input quantum state at a sender will be reproduced at two receivers in turn. The switching system manipulated by squeezed state light might be developed as a practical quantum switch device for the communication and teleportation of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0105074
title: Pseudo-forces in quantum mechanics
authors: Pravabati Chingangbam, Pankaj Sharan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, revtex, new section added, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 64 (2001) 042107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105074
abstract: Dynamical evolution is described as a parallel section on an infinite dimensional Hilbert bundle over the base manifold of all frames of reference. The parallel section is defined by an operator-valued connection whose components are the generators of the relativity group acting on the base manifold. In the case of Galilean transformations we show that the property that the curvature for the fundamental connection must be zero is just the Heisenberg equations of motion and the canonical commutation relation in geometric language. We then consider linear and circular accelerating frames and show that pseudo-forces must appear naturally in the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0105075
title: Thermal entanglement in three-qubit Heisenberg models
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Hongchen Fu, Allan I Solomon
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, minor revisions, resubmitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34(50), 11307-11320(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105075
abstract: We study pairwise thermal entanglement in three-qubit Heisenberg models and obtain analytic expressions for the concurrence. We find that thermal entanglement is absent from both the antiferromagnetic $XXZ$ model, and the ferromagnetic $XXZ$ model with anisotropy parameter $\Delta\ge 1$. Conditions for the existence of thermal entanglement are discussed in detail, as is the role of degeneracy and the effects of magnetic fields on thermal entanglement and the quantum phase transition. Specifically, we find that the magnetic field can induce entanglement in the antiferromagnetic $XXX$ model, but cannot induce entanglement in the ferromagnetic $XXX$ model.

id: quant-ph/0105076
title: Improved semiclassical density matrix: taming caustics
authors: C. A. A. de Carvalho, R. M. Cavalcanti, E. S. Fraga, S. E. Joras
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures. Revised version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys.Rev. E65 (2002) 056112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105076
abstract: We present a simple method to deal with caustics in the semiclassical approximation to the thermal density matrix of a particle moving on the line. For simplicity, only its diagonal elements are considered. The only ingredient we require is the knowledge of the extrema of the Euclidean action. The procedure makes use of complex trajectories, and is applied to the quartic double-well potential.

id: quant-ph/0105077
title: A Relation between Coherent States and Generalized Bell States
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 17 pages, typos corrected and two appendices to make the contents clearer added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105077
abstract: In the first half we show an interesting relation between coherent states and the Bell states in the case of spin 1/2, which was suggested by Fivel. In the latter half we treat generalized coherent states and try to generalize this relation to get several generalized Bell states. Our method is based on a geometry and our task may give a hint to open a deep relation between a coherence and an entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0105078
title: Monte Carlo Simulation of Laser Diodes Sub-Poissonian Light Generation
authors: L. Chusseau, J. Arnaud
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, submitted to Optical and Quantum Electronics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105078
abstract: When laser diodes are driven by high-impedance electrical sources the variance of the number of photo-detection events counted over large time durations is less than the average number of events (sub-Poissonian light). The paper presents a Monte Carlo simulation that keeps track of each level occupancy (0 or 1) in the conduction and valence bands, and of the number of light quanta in the optical cavity. When there is good electron-lattice thermal contact the electron and hole temperatures remain equal to that of the lattice. In that case, elementary laser-diode noise theory results are accurately reproduced by the simulation. But when the thermal contact is poor (or, almost equivalently, at high power levels) new effects occur (spectral-hole burning, temperature fluctuations, statistical fluctuations of the optical gain) that are difficult to handle theoretically. Our numerical simulation shows that the frequency domain over which the photo-current spectral density is below the shot-noise level becomes narrower as the optical power increases.

id: quant-ph/0105079
title: Covariant localizations in the torus and the phase observables
authors: G. Cassinelli, E. De Vito, P. Lahti, J.-P. Pellonpaa
comments: 16 pages, no figure, Latex2e
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 693-704
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105079
abstract: We describe all the localization observables of a quantum particle in a one-dimensional box in terms of sequences of unit vectors in a Hilbert space. An alternative representation in terms of positive semidefinite complex matrices is furnished and the commutative localizations are singled out. As a consequence, we also get a vector sequence characterization of the covariant phase observables.

id: quant-ph/0105080
title: Bell-inequality violation with "thermal" radiation
authors: Radim Filip, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek, Ladislav Mista
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 043802 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105080
abstract: The model of a quantum-optical device for a conditional preparation of entangled states from input mixed states is presented. It is demonstrated that even thermal or pseudo-thermal radiation can be entangled in such a way, that Bell-inequalities are violated.

id: quant-ph/0105081
title: Characteristic times in one dimensional scattering
authors: J. G. Muga
comments: 27 pages, two eps figures. To appear in ``Time in Quantum Mechanics'', edited by J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato and I. L. Egusquiza
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105081
abstract: This chapter reviews several quantities that have been proposed in scattering theory to characterize the temporal aspects of one dimensional collisions: the dwell time, the delay time, the decay time, and times characterizing transient effects or the attainment of stationary conditions. Some aspects of tunnelling times are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0105082
title: The critical perturbation parameter estimate for the transition from regularity to chaos in quantum systems
authors: V. E. Bunakov, I. B. Ivanov, R. B. Panin
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105082
abstract: In this paper we continue to develop our approach to the chaoticity properties of the quantum Hamiltonian systems. Our earlier suggested chaoticity criterion characterizes the initial symmetry breaking and the destruction of the corresponding integrals of motion in a perturbed system, which causes the system's chaotisation. Transition from regularity to chaos in quantum systems occurs at a certain critical value of the perturbation parameter. In our previous papers we had to diagonalize the perturbed system's Hamiltonian matrix in order to estimate this parameter. In the present paper we demonstrate that the critical perturbation parameter for the transition from regularity to chaos can be estimated in the framework of the first order perturbation theory. The values of thus obtained critical parameter are in good agreement with the results of our previous precise calculations for Hennon-Heiles Hamiltonian and diamagnetic Kepler problem.

id: quant-ph/0105083
title: Boole-Bell-type inequalities in Mathematica
authors: Stefan Filipp, Karl Svozil
comments: 29 pages, all files necessary to process Mathematica in an MS Windows environment are at this http URL, the original cdd package is at this http URL
journal: Challenging the Boundaries of Symbolic Computation, ed. by Peter Mitic, Philip Ramsden and Janet Carne (Imperial College Press, London 2003), pp. 215-222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105083
abstract: Classical Pitowsky correlation polytopes are reviewed with particular emphasis on the Minkowski-Weyl representation theorem. The inequalities representing the faces of polytopes are Boole's ``conditions of possible experience.'' Many of these inequalities have been discussed in the context of Bell's inequalities. We introduce CddIF, a Mathematica package created as an interface between Mathematica and the cdd program by Komei Fukuda, which represents a highly efficient method to solve the hull problem for general classical correlation polytopes.

id: quant-ph/0105084
title: Observation of transient gain without population inversion in a laser-cooled rubidium lambda system
authors: S. R. de Echaniz, Andrew D. Greentree, A. V. Durrant, D. M. Segal, J. P. Marangos, J. A. Vaccaro
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, experimental results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105084
abstract: We have observed clear Rabi oscillations of a weak probe in a strongly driven three-level lambda system in laser-cooled rubidium for the first time. When the coupling field is non-adiabatically switched on using a Pockels cell, transient probe gain without population inversion is obtained in the presence of uncoupled absorptions. Our results are supported by three-state computations.

id: quant-ph/0105085
title: Forcing Discretization and Determination in Quantum History Theories
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 10 pages
journal: In: Foundations of Probability and Physics, A. Khrennikov, Ed., World Scientific, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105085
abstract: We present a formally deterministic representation for quantum history theories where we obtain the probabilistic structure via a discrete contextual variable: no continuous probabilities are as such involved at the primal level -- we conceive as a history theory any theory that deals with sequential quantum measurements but remains essentially a dichotomic propositional theory. A major part of the paper consists of a concise survey of arXiv: quant-ph/0008061 and quant-ph/0008062.

id: quant-ph/0105086
title: The delta-function-kicked rotor: Momentum diffusion and the quantum-classical boundary
authors: Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs, Kosuke Shizume
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, revtex4 (revised version contains much more introductory material)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032115 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105086
abstract: We investigate the quantum-classical transition in the delta-kicked rotor and the attainment of the classical limit in terms of measurement-induced state-localization. It is possible to study the transition by fixing the environmentally induced disturbance at a sufficiently small value, and examining the dynamics as the system is made more macroscopic. When the system action is relatively small, the dynamics is quantum mechanical and when the system action is sufficiently large there is a transition to classical behavior. The dynamics of the rotor in the region of transition, characterized by the late-time momentum diffusion coefficient, can be strikingly different from both the purely quantum and classical results. Remarkably, the early time diffusive behavior of the quantum system, even when different from its classical counterpart, is stabilized by the continuous measurement process. This shows that such measurements can succeed in extracting essentially quantum effects. The transition regime studied in this paper is accessible in ongoing experiments.

id: quant-ph/0105087
title: From gauge transformations to topology computation in quantum lattice gas automata
authors: David A. Meyer
comments: 8 pages, plain TeX, 1 PostScript figure included with epsf.tex (ignore the under/overfull \vbox error messages); for related work see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105087
abstract: The evolution of a quantum lattice gas automaton (LGA) for a single charged particle is invariant under multiplication of the wave function by a global phase. Requiring invariance under the corresponding local gauge transformations determines the rule for minimal coupling to an arbitrary external electromagnetic field. We develop the Aharonov-Bohm effect in the resulting model into a constant time algorithm to distinguish a one dimensional periodic lattice from one with boundaries; any classical deterministic LGA algorithm distinguishing these two spatial topologies would have expected running time on the order of the cardinality of the lattice.

id: quant-ph/0105088
title: Remote state preparation in higher dimension and the parallelizable manifold $S^{n-1}$
authors: Bei Zeng, Peng Zhang
comments: 8pages, no figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105088
abstract: This paper proves that the remote state preparation (RSP) scheme in real Hilbert space can only be implemented when the dimension of the space is 2,4 or 8. This fact is shown to be related to the parallelazablity of the $n$-1 dimensional sphere $S^{n-1}$. When the dimension is 4 and 8 the generalized scheme is explicitly presented. It is also shown that for a given state with components having the same norm, RSP can be generalized to arbitrary dimension case.

id: quant-ph/0105089
title: A search for a border between classical and quantum worlds
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105089
abstract: The effects of environmental decoherence on a mass center position of a macroscopic body are studied using the linear quantum Boltzmann equation. The border between the classical world and the quantum one is discussed and the results are illustrated by the recent experiments od Zeilinger group involving C_60 and C_70 fullerenes.

id: quant-ph/0105090
title: Normal forms and entanglement measures for multipartite quantum states
authors: Frank Verstraete, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: Proof of uniqueness of normal form added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012103 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105090
abstract: A general mathematical framework is presented to describe local equivalence classes of multipartite quantum states under the action of local unitary and local filtering operations. This yields multipartite generalizations of the singular value decomposition. The analysis naturally leads to the introduction of entanglement measures quantifying the multipartite entanglement (as generalizations of the concurrence and the 3-tangle), and the optimal local filtering operations maximizing these entanglement monotones are obtained. Moreover a natural extension of the definition of GHZ-states to e.g. $2\times 2\times N$ systems is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0105091
title: Physical sectors of the confluent hypergeometric functions space
authors: O. Rosas-Ortiz, J. Negro, L.M. Nieto
comments: LaTeX, 9 pages, no figures, macros included
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 49 S1 (2003) 88-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105091
abstract: A relaxed factorization is used to obtain many of the properties obeyed by the confluent hypergeometric functions. Their implications on the analytical solutions of some interesting physical problems are also studied. It is quite remarkable that, although these properties appear frequently in solving the Schroedinger equation, it has been not clear the role they play in describing the physical systems. The main objective of this communication is precisely to throw some light on the subject.

id: quant-ph/0105092
title: Role of degenerate atomic levels in the entanglement and the decoherence
authors: L. Zhou, H. S. Song, Y. X. Luo
comments: 8 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105092
abstract: We studied the dispersive dissipation of denegerate-level atom interacting with a single linearly-polarized mode field. It is found that the degeneracy of the atomic level affects the dissipation bahavior of the system as well as the subsystems. The degeneracy of the atomic level augment the periods of entanglement and increase the degree of the maxima statistical mixture states.

id: quant-ph/0105093
title: A Representation for Compound Quantum Systems as Individual Entities: Hard Acts of Creation and Hidden Correlations
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Foundations of Physics 28, 1109--1135 (1998) --- submitted in 1996. 15 pages. Some corrections are made compared to the published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105093
abstract: We introduce an explicit definition for 'hidden correlations' on individual entities in a compound system: when one individual entity is measured, this induces a well-defined transition of the 'proper state' of the other individual entities. We prove that every compound quantum system described in the tensor product of a finite number of Hilbert spaces can be uniquely represented as a collection of individual(ized) (peudo-)entities between which there exist such hidden correlations. We investigate the significance of these hidden correlation representations within the so-called ``creation-discovery-approach'' and in particular their compatibility with the ``hidden measurement formalism''. This leads us to the introduction of the notions of 'soft' and 'hard' 'acts of creation' and to the observation that our approach can be seen as a theory of (pseudo-)individuals when compared to the standard quantum theory. (For a presentation of the ideas proposed in this paper within a quantum logical setting, yielding a structural theorem for the representation of a compound quantum system in terms of the Hilbert space tensor product, we refer to quant-ph/0008054.)

id: quant-ph/0105094
title: A (Classical) Representation for a Spin-S Entity as a compound system in R^3 consisting of 2S Individual Spin-1/2 Entities
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Foundations of Physics 28, 1347--1365 (1998) --- submitted in 1996. 11 pages. Published title doesn't have ``(classical)'' in it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105094
abstract: We generalize the results of [B. Coecke, Helv. Phys. Acta 68, 396 (1995)] for the representation of coherent states of a spin-1 entity to spin-S entities with S>1 and to non-coherent spin states: through the introduction of 'hidden correlations' (see quant-ph/0105093) we introduce a representation for a spin-S entity as a compound system consisting of 2S 'individual' spin-1/2 entities, each of them represented by a 'proper state', and such that we are able to consider a measurement on the spin-S entity as a measurement on each of the individual spin-1/2 entities. If the spin-S entity is in a maximal spin state, the 2S individual spin-1/2 entities behave as a collection of indistinguishable but separated entities. If not so, we have to introduce the same kind of hidden correlations as required for a hidden correlation representation of a compound quantum systems described by a symmetrical superposition. Moreover, by applying the Majorana representation and Aerts' representation for a spin-1/2 entity, this hidden correlation representation yields a classical mechanistic representation of a spin-S entity in R^3.

id: quant-ph/0105095
title: Variational Perturbation Theory for the Ground-State Wave Function
authors: Axel Pelster, Florian Weissbach
comments: The article is a contribution to the book "Fluctuating Paths and Fields - Dedicated to Hagen Kleinert on the Occasion of His 60th Birthday", Eds. Wolfhard Janke, Axel Pelster, Hans-Juergen Schmidt, and Michael Bachmann (World Scientific, Singapore, 2001), p. 315-326
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105095
abstract: We evaluate perturbatively the density matrix in the low-temperature limit and thus the ground-state wave function of the anharmonic oscillator up to second order in the coupling constant. We then employ Kleinert's variational perturbation theory to determine the ground-state wave function for all coupling strengths.

id: quant-ph/0105096
title: Quantum dense coding using three qubits
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105096
abstract: We consider a situation in which two parties, Alice and Bob, share a 3-qubit system coupled in an initial maximally entangled, GHZ state. By manipulating locally two of the qubits, Alice can prepare any one of the eight 3-qubit GHZ states. Thus the sending of Alice's two qubits to Bob, entails 3 bits of classical information which can be recovered by Bob by means of a measurement distinguishing the eight (orthonormal) GHZ states. This contrasts with the 2-qubit case, in which Alice can prepare any of the four Bell states by acting locally only on one of the qubits.

id: quant-ph/0105097
title: The world according to quantum mechanics (or, the 18 errors of Henry P. Stapp)
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: Comment on quant-ph/0103043, 20 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105097
abstract: Several errors in Stapp's interpretation of quantum mechanics and its application to mental causation (Henry P. Stapp, "Quantum theory and the role of mind in nature," e-Print quant-ph/0103043) are pointed out. An interpretation of (standard) QM that avoids these errors is presented.

id: quant-ph/0105098
title: How many photons are needed to distinguish two transparencies?
authors: Graeme Mitchison, Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 022110 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105098
abstract: We give a bound on the minimum number of photons that must be absorbed by any quantum protocol to distinguish between two transparencies. We show how a quantum Zeno method in which the angle of rotation is varied at each iteration can attain this bound in certain situations.

id: quant-ph/0105099
title: Maximal entanglement of nonorthogonal states: classification
authors: Hongchen Fu, Xiaoguang Wang, Allan I Solomon
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages, uses elsart.cls
journal: Physics Letters A 291 (2001) 73-76.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105099
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition for the maximal entanglement of bipartite nonorthogonal pure states is found. The condition is applied to the maximal entanglement of coherent states. Some new classes of maximally entangled coherent states are explicited constructed; their limits give rise to maximally entangled Bell-like states.

id: quant-ph/0105100
title: Feasible Linear-optics Generation of Polarization-entangled Photons Assisted with Single-photon Quantum Non-demolition Measurement
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan, Yong-De Zhang
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105100
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to create $n$-party ($n\geq 2$) polarization-entangled photon states in a controllable way. The scheme requires only single-photon sources, single-photon quantum non-demolition measurement (SP-QNDM) and simple linear optical elements, usually with high perfections. The SP-QNDM acts as a non-destructive projection measurement onto the wanted entangled states and filters out the unwanted terms. Our scheme in fact realizes entanglement of non-interacting photons; the interaction occurs only implicitly in the optical elements and SP-QNDM. We also briefly consider purification of mixed single-photon states within our scheme.

id: quant-ph/0105101
title: The Two-State Vector Formalism of Qauntum Mechanics: an Updated Review
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Lev Vaidman
comments: 48 pages, 5 eps fig. Updated version for new eddition of ``Time in Quantum Mechanics'', edited by J. G. Muga, R. Sala Mayato and I. L. Egusquiza
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105101
abstract: In this paper we present the two-state vector formalism of quantum mechanics. It is a time-symmetrized approach to standard quantum theory particularly helpful for the analysis of experiments performed on pre- and post-selected ensembles. Several peculiar effects which naturally arise in this approach are considered. In particular, the concept of ``weak measurements'' (standard measurements with weakening of the interaction) is discussed in depth revealing a very unusual but consistent picture. Also, a design of a gedanken experiment which implements a kind of quantum ``time machine'' is described. The issue of time-symmetry in the context of the two-state vector formalism is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0105102
title: Quantum Computing with Quantum Dots on Linear Supports
authors: K.R. Brown, D.A. Lidar, K.B. Whaley
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012307 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105102
abstract: Motivated by the recently demonstrated ability to attach quantum dots to polymers at well defined locations, we propose a condensed phase analog of the ion trap quantum computer: a scheme for quantum computation using chemically assembled semiconductor nanocrystals attached to a linear support. The linear support is either a molecular string (e.g., DNA) or a nanoscale rod. The phonon modes of the linear support are used as a quantum information bus between the dots. Our scheme offers greater flexibiliy in optimizing material parameters than the ion trap method but has additional complications. We discuss the relevant physical parameters, provide a detailed feasibility study, and suggest materials for which quantum computation may be possible with this approach. We find that Si is a potentially promising quantum dot material, already allowing 5-10 qubits quantum computer to operate with an error threshold of 10^-3.

id: quant-ph/0105103
title: Gravity Induced New Topological Phase in Optics
authors: Partha Ghose, M. K. Samal
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, one eps figure, revised to include feasible experiment; Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105103
abstract: It is shown that both classical and quantum light can acquire a topological phase shift induced by classical gravity, and the latter is detectable in a laboratory-scale experiment.

id: quant-ph/0105104
title: A uniqueness theorem for entanglement measures
authors: Oliver Rudolph
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42 (2001), 2507-2512.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105104
abstract: We obtain a mathematically simple characterization of all functionals coinciding with the von Neumann reduced entropy on pure states based on the Khinchin-Faddeev axiomatization of Shannon entropy and give a physical interpretation of the axioms in terms of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0105105
title: Long-distance quantum communication with atomic ensembles and linear optics
authors: Lu-Ming Duan, Mikhail Lukin, Ignacio Cirac, Peter Zoller
comments: 2 tex files (Main text + Supplement), 4 figures
journal: Nature 414, 413-418 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105105
abstract: Quantum communication holds a promise for absolutely secure transmission of secret messages and faithful transfer of unknown quantum states. Photonic channels appear to be very attractive for physical implementation of quantum communication. However, due to losses and decoherence in the channel, the communication fidelity decreases exponentially with the channel length. We describe a scheme that allows to implement robust quantum communication over long lossy channels. The scheme involves laser manipulation of atomic ensembles, beam splitters, and single-photon detectors with moderate efficiencies, and therefore well fits the status of the current experimental technology. We show that the communication efficiency scale polynomially with the channel length thereby facilitating scalability to very long distances.

id: quant-ph/0105106
title: The Description of Joint Quantum Entities and the Formulation of a Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 39, 2000, 483
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105106
abstract: We formulate a paradox in relation to the description of a joint entity consisting of two subentities by standard quantum mechanics. We put forward a proposal for a possible solution, entailing the interpretation of density states as pure states. We explain where the inspiration for this proposal comes from and how its validity can be tested experimentally. We discuss the consequences on quantum axiomatics of the proposal.

id: quant-ph/0105107
title: Quantum axiomatics and a theorem of M.P. Soler
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart Van Steirteghem
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 39, 2000, 497
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105107
abstract: Three of the traditional quantum axioms (orthocomplementation, orthomodularity and the covering law) show incompatibilities with two products introduced by Aerts for the description of joint entities. Inspired by Soler's theorem and Holland's AUG axiom, we propose a property of 'plane transitivity', which also characterizes classical Hilbert spaces among infinite dimensional orthomodular spaces, as a possible partial substitute for the 'defective' axioms.

id: quant-ph/0105108
title: State property systems and closure spaces: a study of categorical equivalence
authors: Diederik Aerts, Eva Colebunders, Ann Van der Voorde, Bart Van Steirteghem
comments: 27 pages, 0 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 38, 1999, 259
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105108
abstract: We show that the natural mathematical structure to describe a physical entity by means of its states and its properties within the Geneva-Brussels approach is that of a state property system. We prove that the category of state property systems (and morphisms), SP, is equivalent to the category of closure spaces (and continuous maps), Cls. We show the equivalence of the 'state determination axiom' for state property systems with the 'T0 separation axiom' for closure spaces. We also prove that the category SP0 of state determined state property systems is equivalent to the category L0 of based complete lattices. In this sense the equivalence of SP and Cls generalizes the equivalence of Cls0 and L0, proven in Erne 1984.

id: quant-ph/0105109
title: Foundations of quantum physics: a general realistic and operational approach
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 64 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 38, 1999, 289
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105109
abstract: We present a general formalism with the aim of describing the situation of an entity, how it is, how it reacts to experiments, how we can make statistics with it, and how it changes under the influence of the rest of the universe. Therefore we base our formalism on the following basic notions: (1) the states of the entity; they describe the modes of being of the entity, (2) the experiments that can be performed on the entity; they describe how we act upon and collect knowledge about the entity, (3) the probabilities; they describe our repeated experiments and the statistics of these repeated experiments, (4) the symmetries; they describe the interactions of the entity with the external world without being experimented upon. Starting from these basic notions we formulate the necessary derived notions: mixed states, mixed experiments and events, an eigen closure structure describing the properties of the entity, an ortho closure structure introducing an orthocomplementation, outcome determination, experiment determination, state determination and atomicity giving rise to some of the topological separation axioms for the closures. We define the notion of sub entity in a general way and identify the morphisms of our structure. We study specific examples in detail in the light of this formalism: a classical deterministic entity and a quantum entity described by the standard quantum mechanical formalism. We present a possible solution to the problem of the description of sub entities within the standard quantum mechanical procedure using the tensor product of the Hilbert spaces, by introducing a new completed quantum mechanics in Hilbert space, were new 'pure' states are introduced, not represented by rays of the Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0105110
title: Mesoscopic interference
authors: P. Facchi, A. Mariano, S. Pascazio
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: Recent Res. Devel. Physics, 3 (2002) 1-29
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105110
abstract: We analyze a double-slit experiment when the interfering particle is "mesoscopic" and one endeavors to obtain Welcher Weg information by shining light on it. We derive a compact expression for the visibility of the interference pattern: coherence depends on both the spatial and temporal features of the wave function during its travel to the screen. We set a bound on the temperature of the mesoscopic particle in order that its quantum mechanical coherence be maintained.

id: quant-ph/0105111
title: Entanglement degradation in continuous-variable quantum teleportation
authors: Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Stefan Scheel, Aleksej V. Chizhov
comments: 15 pages, 11 eps figures, contribution to the Seventh International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations ICCSUR VII, Boston 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105111
abstract: The influence of losses in the transmission of continuous-variable entangled light through linear devices such as optical fibers is studied, with special emphasis on Gaussian states. Upper bounds on entanglement and the distance to the set of separable Gaussian states are calculated. Compared with the distance measure, the bounds can substantially overestimate the entanglement and thus do not show the drastic decrease of entanglement with increasing mean photon number, as does the distance measure. In particular, it shows that losses give rise to entanglement saturation, which principally limits the amount of information that can be transferred quantum mechanically in continuous-variable teleportation. Even for an initially infinitely squeezed two-mode squeezed vacuum, high-fidelity teleportation is only possible over distances that are much smaller than the absorption lengths.

id: quant-ph/0105112
title: On Koopman-von Neumann Waves
authors: D. Mauro
comments: 27+1 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 1301-1325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105112
abstract: In this paper we study the classical Hilbert space introduced by Koopman and von Neumann in their operatorial formulation of classical mechanics. In particular we show that the states of this Hilbert space do not spread, differently than what happens in quantum mechanics. The role of the phases associated to these classical "wave functions" is analyzed in details. In this framework we also perform the analog of the two-slit experiment and compare it with the quantum case.

id: quant-ph/0105113
title: Minimal Coupling in Koopman-von Neumann Theory
authors: E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 38+1 pages, 2 figures, Latex; one reference changed
journal: Annals Phys. 296 (2002) 152-186
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105113
abstract: Classical mechanics (CM), like quantum mechanics (QM), can have an operatorial formulation. This was pioneered by Koopman and von Neumann (KvN) in the 30's. They basically formalized, via the introduction of a classical Hilbert space, earlier work of Liouville who had shown that the classical time evolution can take place via an operator, nowadays known as the Liouville operator. In this paper we study how to perform the coupling of a point particle to a gauge field in the KvN version of CM. So we basically implement at the classical operatorial level the analog of the minimal coupling of QM. We show that, differently than in QM, not only the momenta but also other variables have to be coupled to the gauge field. We also analyze in details how the gauge invariance manifests itself in the Hilbert space of KvN and indicate the differences with QM. As an application of the KvN method we study the Landau problem proving that there are many more degeneracies at the classical operatorial level than at the quantum one. As a second example we go through the Aharonov-Bohm phenomenon showing that, at the quantum level, this phenomenon manifests its effects on the spectrum of the quantum Hamiltonian while at the classical level there is no effect whatsoever on the spectrum of the Liouville operator.

id: quant-ph/0105114
title: Optimal Summation and Integration by Deterministic, Randomized, and Quantum Algorithms
authors: S. Heinrich, E. Novak
comments: 13 pages, contribution to the 4th International Conference on Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods, Hong Kong 2000
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105114
abstract: We survey old and new results about optimal algorithms for summation of finite sequences and for integration of functions from Hoelder or Sobolev spaces. First we discuss optimal deterministic and randomized algorithms. Then we add a new aspect, which has not been covered before on conferences about (quasi-) Monte Carlo methods: quantum computation. We give a short introduction into this setting and present recent results of the authors on optimal quantum algorithms for summation and integration. We discuss comparisons between the three settings. The most interesting case for Monte Carlo and quantum integration is that of moderate smoothness k and large dimension d which, in fact, occurs in a number of important applied problems. In that case the deterministic exponent is negligible, so the n^{-1/2} Monte Carlo and the n^{-1} quantum speedup essentially constitute the entire convergence rate. We observe that -- there is an exponential speed-up of quantum algorithms over deterministic (classical) algorithms, if k/d tends to zero; -- there is a (roughly) quadratic speed-up of quantum algorithms over randomized classical algorithms, if k/d is small.

id: quant-ph/0105115
title: Dynamical description of quantum computing: generic nonlocality of quantum noise
authors: Robert Alicki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections, softened interpretation of the results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062101 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105115
abstract: We develop dynamical non-Markovian description of quantum computing in weak coupling limit, in lowest order approximation. We show that long range memory of quantum reservoir produces strong interrelation between structure of noise and quantum algorithm, implying nonlocal attacks of noise. We then argue that the quantum error correction method fails to protect quantum computation against electromagnetic or phonon vacuum which exhibit $1/t^4$ memory. This shows that the implicit assumption of quantum error correction theory -- independence of noise and self-dynamics -- fails in long time regimes. We also use our approach to present {\it pure} decoherence and decoherence accompanied by dissipation in terms of spectral density of reservoir. The so-called {\it dynamical decoupling} method is discussed in this context. Finally, we propose {\it minimal decoherence model}, in which the only source of decoherence is vacuum. We optimize fidelity of quantum information processing under the trade-off between speed of gate and strength of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0105116
title: Quantum Summation with an Application to Integration
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: 48 pages, paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105116
abstract: We study summation of sequences and integration in the quantum model of computation. We develop quantum algorithms for computing the mean of sequences which satisfy a p-summability condition and for integration of functions from Lebesgue spaces L_p([0,1]^d) and analyze their convergence rates. We also prove lower bounds which show that the proposed algorithms are, in many cases, optimal within the setting of quantum computing. This extends recent results of Brassard, Hoyer, Mosca, and Tapp (2000) on computing the mean for bounded sequences and complements results of Novak (2001) on integration of functions from Hoelder classes.

id: quant-ph/0105117
title: From Classical State-Swapping to Quantum Teleportation
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: Missing daggers added to Figures 13, 14, and 15. Otherwise this is the version that appeared in Physical Review
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012320 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105117
abstract: The quantum teleportation protocol is extracted directly out of a standard classical circuit that exchanges the states of two qubits using only controlled-NOT gates. This construction of teleportation from a classically transparent circuit generalizes straightforwardly to d-state systems.

id: quant-ph/0105118
title: Quantum radiation at finite temperature
authors: Ralf Schtzhold, Gnter Plunien, Gerhard Soff
comments: 16 pages RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105118
abstract: We investigate the phenomenon of quantum radiation - i.e. the conversion of (virtual) quantum fluctuations into (real) particles induced by dynamical external conditions - for an initial thermal equilibrium state. For a resonantly vibrating cavity a rather strong enhancement of the number of generated particles (the dynamical Casimir effect) at finite temperatures is observed. Furthermore we derive the temperature corrections to the energy radiated by a single moving mirror and an oscillating bubble within a dielectric medium as well as the number of created particles within the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe. Possible implications and the relevance for experimental tests are addressed. PACS: 42.50.Lc, 03.70.+k, 11.10.Ef, 11.10.Wx.

id: quant-ph/0105119
title: Designing optimum CP maps for quantum teleportation
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, J. Fiurasek, C. Brukner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105119
abstract: We study general teleportation scheme with an arbitrary state of the pair of particles (2 and 3) shared by Alice and Bob, and arbitrary measurements on the input particle 1 and one of the members (2) of the pair on Alice's side. We find an efficient iterative algorithm for identifying optimum local operations on Bob's side. In particular we find that simple unitary transformations on his side are not always optimal even if particles 2 and 3 are perfectly entangled. We describe the most interesting protocols in the language of extremal completely-positive maps.

id: quant-ph/0105120
title: Spin-Space Entanglement Transfer and Quantum Statistics
authors: Y. Omar, N. Paunkovic, S. Bose, V. Vedral
comments: 5 figures. Various changes for clarification and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062305 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105120
abstract: Both the topics of entanglement and particle statistics have aroused enormous research interest since the advent of quantum mechanics. Using two pairs of entangled particles we show that indistinguishability enforces a transfer of entanglement from the internal to the spatial degrees of freedom without any interaction between these degrees of freedom. Moreover, sub-ensembles selected by local measurements of the path will in general have different amounts of entanglement in the internal degrees of freedom depending on the statistics (either fermionic or bosonic) of the particles involved.

id: quant-ph/0105121
title: Proof of security of quantum key distribution with two-way classical communications
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: substantially revised version, 27 pages, accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 49, No. 2, p. 457 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105121
abstract: Shor and Preskill have provided a simple proof of security of the standard quantum key distribution scheme by Bennett and Brassard (BB84) by demonstrating a connection between key distribution and entanglement purification protocols with one-way communications. Here we provide proofs of security of standard quantum key distribution schemes, BB84 and the six-state scheme, against the most general attack, by using the techniques of *two*-way entanglement purification. We demonstrate clearly the advantage of classical post-processing with two-way classical communications over classical post-processing with only one-way classical communications in QKD. This is done by the explicit construction of a new protocol for (the error correction/detection and privacy amplification of) BB84 that can tolerate a bit error rate of up to 18.9%, which is higher than what any BB84 scheme with only one-way classical communications can possibly tolerate. Moreover, we demonstrate the advantage of the six-state scheme over BB84 by showing that the six-state scheme can strictly tolerate a higher bit error rate than BB84. In particular, our six-state protocol can tolerate a bit error rate of 26.4%, which is higher than the upper bound of 25% bit error rate for any secure BB84 protocol. Consequently, our protocols may allow higher key generation rate and remain secure over longer distances than previous protocols. Our investigation suggests that two-way entanglement purification is a useful tool in the study of advantage distillation, error correction, and privacy amplification protocols.

id: quant-ph/0105122
title: High order quantum decoherence via multi-particle amplitude for boson system
authors: D.L.Zhou, P.Zhang, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, revtex, 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105122
abstract: In this paper we depict the high order quantum coherence of a boson system by using the multi-particle wave amplitude, whose norm square is just the high order correlation function. This multi-time amplitude can be shown to be a superposition of several "multi-particle paths". When the environment or a apparatus entangles with them to form a generalized "which-way" measurement for many particle system, the quantum decoherence happens in the high order case dynamically. An explicit illustration is also given with an intracavity system of two modes interacting with a moving mirror.

id: quant-ph/0105123
title: Scheme for the preparation of the multi-particle entanglement in cavity QED
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Chuan-Feng Li, Jian Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 Pages, 1 Figure. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 042102 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105123
abstract: Here we present a quantum electrodynamics (QED) model involving a large-detuned single-mode cavity field and $n$ identical two-level atoms. One of its applications for the preparation of the multi-particle states is analyzed. In addition to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, the W class states can also be generated in this scheme. The further analysis for the experiment of the model of $n=2$ case is also presented by considering the possible three-atom collision.

id: quant-ph/0105124
title: Extremal equation for optimal completely-positive maps
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: REVTeX, 7 pages, 2 figures, important reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 062310 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105124
abstract: We derive an extremal equation for optimal completely-positive map which most closely approximates a given transformation between pure quantum states. Moreover, we also obtain an upper bound on the maximal mean fidelity that can be attained by the optimal approximate transformation. The developed formalism is applied to universal-NOT gate, quantum cloning machines, quantum entanglers, and qubit theta-shifter.

id: quant-ph/0105125
title: A Measure of Stregth of an Unextendible Product Basis
authors: S. Chaturvedi
comments: 4 pages, Latex, 1 figure, remarks, criticisms welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, art.no. 042322, 1-4 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105125
abstract: A notion of strength of an unextendible product basis is introduced and a quantitative measure for it is suggested with a view to providing an indirect measure for the bound entanglement of formation of the bound entangled mixed state associated with an unextendible product basis.

id: quant-ph/0105126
title: The hidden measurement formalism: what can be explained and where quantum paradoxes remain
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 37, 291, 1998.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105126
abstract: In the hidden measurement formalism that we develop in Brussels we explain the quantum structure as due to the presence of two effects, (a) a real change of state of the system under influence of the measurement and, (b) a lack of knowledge about a deeper deterministic reality of the measurement process. We show that the presence of these two effects leads to the major part of the quantum mechanical structure of a theory where the measurements contain the two mentioned effects. We present a quantum machine, where we can illustrate in a simple way how the quantum structure arises as a consequence of the two effects. We introduce a parameter 'epsilon' that measures the amount of the lack of knowledge on the measurement process, and by varying this parameter, we describe a continuous evolution from a quantum structure (maximal lack of knowledge) to a classical structure (zero lack of knowledge). We show that for intermediate values of epsilon we find a new type of structure that is neither quantum nor classical. We analyze the quantum paradoxes and show that they can be divided into two groups: (1) The group (measurement problem and Schrodingers cat paradox) where the paradoxical aspects arise mainly from the application of standard quantum theory as a general theory (e.g. also describing the measurement apparatus). This type of paradox disappears in the hidden measurement formalism. (2) A second group collecting the paradoxes connected to the effect of non-locality (the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and the violation of Bell inequalities). We show that these paradoxes are internally resolved because the effect of non-locality turns out to be a fundamental property of the hidden measurement formalism itself.

id: quant-ph/0105127
title: Decoherence, einselection, and the quantum origins of the classical
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Final version of the review, with brutally compressed figures. Apart from the changes introduced in the editorial process the text is identical with that in the Rev. Mod. Phys. July issue. Also available from this http URL
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 75, 715 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105127
abstract: Decoherence is caused by the interaction with the environment. Environment monitors certain observables of the system, destroying interference between the pointer states corresponding to their eigenvalues. This leads to environment-induced superselection or einselection, a quantum process associated with selective loss of information. Einselected pointer states are stable. They can retain correlations with the rest of the Universe in spite of the environment. Einselection enforces classicality by imposing an effective ban on the vast majority of the Hilbert space, eliminating especially the flagrantly non-local "Schr\"odinger cat" states. Classical structure of phase space emerges from the quantum Hilbert space in the appropriate macroscopic limit: Combination of einselection with dynamics leads to the idealizations of a point and of a classical trajectory. In measurements, einselection replaces quantum entanglement between the apparatus and the measured system with the classical correlation.

id: quant-ph/0105128
title: A double slit and a position-momentum EPR correlation
authors: Kouji Sugiyama
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105128
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, due to the fact that a similar paper (quant-ph/9904075) has been published.

id: quant-ph/0105129
title: Non-classical behavior of atoms in an interferometer
authors: Lepsa Vuskovic, Dusan Arsenovic, Mirjana Bozic
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105129
abstract: We have studied the properties of the non-classical behavior of atoms in a double-slit interferometer. An indication of this behavior for metastable helium was reported by Kurtsiefer, Pfau and Mlynek [Nature 386, 150 (1997)] showing distinctive negative values of the Wigner function, which was reconstructed from the measured diffraction data. Our approach to explain this non-classical behavior is based on the de Broglie-Bohm-Vigier-Selleri understanding of the wave-particle duality and compatible statistical interpretation of the atomic wave function. It follows from the results that the atomic motion is non-classical because it does not obey the laws of classical mechanics. However, there is no evidence that this atomic behavior violates the classical probability law of the addition of probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0105130
title: Testing Hall-Post Inequalities With Exactly Solvable N-Body Problems
authors: Avinash Khare, Jean-Marc Richard
comments: 7 pages, Latex2e, 2 .eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105130
abstract: The Hall--Post inequalities provide lower bounds on $N$-body energies in terms of $N'$-body energies with $N'<N$. They are rewritten and generalized to be tested with exactly-solvable models of Calogero-Sutherland type in one and higher dimensions. The bound for $N$ spinless fermions in one dimension is better saturated at large coupling than for noninteracting fermions in an oscillator

id: quant-ph/0105131
title: Synthesis and characterization of entangled mesoscopic superpositions for a trapped electron
authors: Michol Massini, Mauro Fortunato, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX (twocolumn)
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communications) 62, 041401 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105131
abstract: We propose a scheme for the generation and reconstruction of entangled states between the internal and external (motional) degrees of freedom of a trapped electron. Such states also exhibit quantum coherence at a mesoscopic level.

id: quant-ph/0105132
title: Experimental violation of a spin-1 Bell inequality using maximally-entangled four-photon states
authors: John C. Howell, Antia Lamas-Linares, Dik Bouwmeester
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Revtex4. Problem with figures resolved
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 030401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105132
abstract: We demonstrate the first experimental violation of a spin-1 Bell inequality. The spin-1 inequality is a calculation based on the Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt formalism. For entangled spin-1 particles the maximum quantum mechanical prediction is 2.552 as opposed to a maximum of 2, predicted using local hidden variables. We obtained an experimental value of 2.27 $\pm 0.02$ using the four-photon state generated by pulsed, type-II, stimulated parametric down-conversion. This is a violation of the spin-1 Bell inequality by more than 13 standard deviations.

id: quant-ph/0105133
title: A Quantum Full Adder for a Scalable Nuclear Spin Quantum Computer
authors: G.P. Berman, G.D. Doolen, G.V. Lopez, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 15 pages RevTex including 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105133
abstract: We demonstrate a strategy for implementation a quantum full adder in a spin chain quantum computer. As an example, we simulate a quantum full adder in a chain containing 201 spins. Our simulations also demonstrate how one can minimize errors generated by non-resonant effects.

id: quant-ph/0105134
title: Multivariable functions approximation using a single quantum neuron
authors: A.A. Ezhov, A.G. Khromov, G.P. Berman
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures, PDF
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105134
abstract: We describe a model element able to perform universal stochastic approximations of continuous multivariable functions in both neuron-like and quantum form. The implementation of this model in the form of a multi-barrier, multiple-slit system is proposed and it is demonstrated that this single neuron-like model is able to perform the XOR function unrealizable with single classical neuron. For the simplified waveguide variant of this model it is proved for different interfering quantum alternatives with no correlated adjustable parameters, that the system can approximate any continuous function of many variables. This theorem is applied to the 2-input quantum neural model based on the use of the schemes developed for controlled nonlinear multiphoton absorption of light by quantum systems. The relation between the field of quantum neural computing and quantum control is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0105135
title: Improving the Efficiency of an Ideal Heat Engine: The Quantum Afterburner
authors: Marlan O. Scully
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105135
abstract: By using a laser and maser in tandem, it is possible to obtain laser action in the hot exhaust gases involved in heat engine operation. Such a "quantum afterburner" involves the internal quantum states of working gas atoms or molecules as well as the techniques of cavity quantum electrodynamics and is therefore in the domain of quantum thermodynamics. As an example, it is shown that Otto cycle engine performance can be improved beyond that of the "ideal" Otto heat engine.

id: quant-ph/0105136
title: Delayed-choice measurement and temporal nonlocality
authors: Ilki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: 
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 56a, 202 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105136
abstract: We study for a composite quantum system with a quantum Turing architecture the temporal non-locality of quantum mechanics by using the temporal Bell inequality, which will be derived for a discretized network dynamics by identifying the subsystem indices with (discrete) parameter time. However, the direct ``observation'' of the quantum system will lead to no violation of the temporal Bell inequality and to consistent histories of any subsystem. Its violation can be demonstrated, though, for a delayed-choice measurement.

id: quant-ph/0105137
title: Limits to squeezing in the degenerate OPO
authors: S. Chaturvedi, K. Dechoum, P. D. Drummond
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105137
abstract: We develop a systematic theory of quantum fluctuations in the driven parametric oscillator (OPO), including the region near threshold. This allows us to treat the limits imposed by nonlinearities to quantum squeezing and noise reduction, in this non-equilibrium quantum phase-transition. In particular, we compute the squeezing spectrum near threshold, and calculate the optimum value. We find that the optimal noise reduction occurs at different driving fields, depending on the ratio of damping rates. The largest spectral noise reductions are predicted to occur with a very high-Q second-harmonic cavity. Our analytic results agree well with stochastic numerical simulations. We also compare the results obtained in the positive-P representation, as a fully quantum mechanical calculation, with the truncated Wigner phase space equation, also known as semiclassical theory.

id: quant-ph/0105138
title: Real measurements and Quantum Zeno effect
authors: Julius Ruseckas, B. Kaulakys
comments: 3 figures
journal: J. Ruseckas and B. Kaulakys, Phys. Rev. A 63, 062103 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105138
abstract: In 1977, Mishra and Sudarshan showed that an unstable particle would never be found decayed while it was continuously observed. They called this effect the quantum Zeno effect (or paradox). Later it was realized that the frequent measurements could also accelerate the decay (quantum anti-Zeno effect). In this paper we investigate the quantum Zeno effect using the definite model of the measurement. We take into account the finite duration and the finite accuracy of the measurement. A general equation for the jump probability during the measurement is derived. We find that the measurements can cause inhibition (quantum Zeno effect) or acceleration (quantum anti-Zeno effect) of the evolution, depending on the strength of the interaction with the measuring device and on the properties of the system. However, the evolution cannot be fully stopped.

id: quant-ph/0105139
title: Discrimination between nonorthogonal two-photon polarization states
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: 7 pages, submitted for the Proceedings of the 8th Central-European Workshop on Quantum Optics, April 27 - 30, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105139
abstract: It is shown that generalized measurements, required for optimally discriminating between nonorthogonal joint polarization states of two indistinguishable photons, can be realized with the help of polarization-dependent two-photon absorption and by means of sum-frequency generation. Optimization schemes are investigated with respect to minimizing the error probability in inferring the states, as well as with respect to maximizing the probability of success for unambiguous discrimination. Moreover, an implementation of error-minimizing discrimination between N symmetric single-photon states is studied. The latter can be used to extract information from the inconclusive results occurring in unambiguous discrimination between three symmetric two-photon polarization states.

id: quant-ph/0105140
title: Theory of nonlinear Landau-Zener tunneling
authors: Jie Liu, Li-Bin Fu, Bi-Yiao Ou, Shi-Gang Chen, Qian Niu
comments: 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol.66,023404 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105140
abstract: A nonlinear Landau-Zener model was proposed recently to describe, among a number of applications, the nonadiabatic transition of a Bose-Einstein condensate between Bloch bands. Numerical analysis revealed a striking phenomenon that tunneling occurs even in the adiabatic limit as the nonlinear parameter $C$ is above a critical value equal to the gap $V$ of avoided crossing of the two levels. In this paper, we present analytical results that give quantitative account of the breakdown of adiabaticity by mapping this quantum nonlinear model into a classical Josephson Hamiltonian. In the critical region, we find a power-law scaling of the nonadiabatic transition probability as a function of $C/V-1$ and $\alpha $, the crossing rate of the energy levels. In the subcritical regime, the transition probability still follows an exponential law but with the exponent changed by the nonlinear effect. For $C/V>>1$, we find a near unit probability for the transition between the adiabatic levels for all values of the crossing rate.

id: quant-ph/0105141
title: Strictly contractive quantum channels and physically realizable quantum computers
authors: Maxim Raginsky
comments: 14 pages; revtex, amsfonts, amssymb; made some changes (recommended by Phys. Rev. A), updated the references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032306 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105141
abstract: We study the robustness of quantum computers under the influence of errors modelled by strictly contractive channels. A channel $T$ is defined to be strictly contractive if, for any pair of density operators $\rho,\sigma$ in its domain, $\| T\rho - T\sigma \|_1 \le k \| \rho-\sigma \|_1$ for some $0 \le k < 1$ (here $\| \cdot \|_1$ denotes the trace norm). In other words, strictly contractive channels render the states of the computer less distinguishable in the sense of quantum detection theory. Starting from the premise that all experimental procedures can be carried out with finite precision, we argue that there exists a physically meaningful connection between strictly contractive channels and errors in physically realizable quantum computers. We show that, in the absence of error correction, sensitivity of quantum memories and computers to strictly contractive errors grows exponentially with storage time and computation time respectively, and depends only on the constant $k$ and the measurement precision. We prove that strict contractivity rules out the possibility of perfect error correction, and give an argument that approximate error correction, which covers previous work on fault-tolerant quantum computation as a special case, is possible.

id: quant-ph/0105142
title: A Convergent Iterative Solution of the Quantum Double-well Potential
authors: R. Friedberg, T. D. Lee, W. Q. Zhao, A. Cimenser
comments: 76 pages, Latex, no figure, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105142
abstract: We present a new convergent iterative solution for the two lowest quantum wave functions $\psi_{ev}$ and $\psi_{od}$ of the Hamiltonian with a quartic double well potential $V$ in one dimension. By starting from a trial function, which is by itself the exact lowest even or odd eigenstate of a different Hamiltonian with a modified potential $V+\delta V$, we construct the Green's function for the modified potential. The true wave functions, $\psi_{ev}$ or $\psi_{od}$, then satisfies a linear inhomogeneous integral equation, in which the inhomogeneous term is the trial function, and the kernel is the product of the Green's function times the sum of $\delta V$, the potential difference, and the corresponding energy shift. By iterating this equation we obtain successive approximations to the true wave function; furthermore, the approximate energy shift is also adjusted at each iteration so that the approximate wave function is well behaved everywhere. We are able to prove that this iterative procedure converges for both the energy and the wave function at all $x$.

id: quant-ph/0105143
title: Quantum algebraic symmetries in atomic clusters, molecules and nuclei
authors: D.Bonatsos, N. Karoussos, P. P. Raychev, R. P. Roussev
comments: Plain TeX, 10 pages. Lecture given at the XXIII International Workshop on Condensed Matter Theories (Ithaca, Greece, 17-23/6/1999)
journal: Condensed Matter Theor. 15 (2000) 25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105143
abstract: Quantum algebras (also called quantum groups) are deformed versions of the usual Lie algebras, to which they reduce when the deformation parameter q is set equal to unity. From the mathematical point of view they are Hopf algebras. Their use in physics became popular with the introduction of the q-deformed harmonic oscillator as a tool for providing a boson realization of the quantum algebra SUq(2), although similar mathematical structures had already been known. Initially used for solving the quantum Yang-Baxter equation, quantum algebras have subsequently found applications in several branches of physics, as, for example, in the description of spin chains, squeezed states, hydrogen atom and hydrogen-like spectra, rotational and vibrational nuclear and molecular spectra, and in conformal field theories. By now much work has been done on the q-deformed oscillator and its relativistic extensions, and several kinds of generalized deformed oscillators and SU(2) algebras have been introduced. Here we shall confine ourselves to a list of applications of quantum algebras in nuclear structure physics and in molecular physics and, in addition, a recent application of quantum algebraic techniques to the structure of atomic clusters will be discussed in more detail.

id: quant-ph/0105144
title: Spin squeezing of atoms by Rydberg blockade
authors: Isabelle Bouchoule, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105144
abstract: We show that the interaction between Rydberg atomic states can provide continuous spin squeezing of atoms with two ground states. The interaction prevents the simultaneous excitation of more than a single atom in the sample to the Rydberg state, and we propose to utilize this blockade effect to realize an effective collective spin hamiltonian J_x^2-J_y^2. With this hamiltonian the quantum mechanical uncertainty of the spin variable J_x+J_y can be reduced significantly.

id: quant-ph/0105145
title: Complete solution of the Schr?dinger equation for the time-dependent linear potential
authors: Mang Feng
comments: Revtex, No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105145
abstract: The complete solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for a particle with time-dependent mass moving in a time-dependent linear potential are presented. One solution is based on the wave function of the plane wave, and the other is with the form of the Airy function. A comparison is made between the present solution and former ones to show the completeness of the present solution.

id: quant-ph/0105146
title: Relational Reality in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael A. Porto
comments: 4 pages, final version accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett. A294 (2002) 129-133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105146
abstract: Up to now it has been impossible to find a realistic interpretation for the reduction process in relativistic quantum mechanics. The basic problem is the dependence of the states on the frame within which collapse takes place. A suitable use of the causal structure of the devices involved in the measurement process allows us to introduce a covariant notion for the collapse of quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0105147
title: Non-thermal nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computing using hyperpolarized Xenon
authors: Anne S. Verhulst, Oskar Liivak, Mark H. Sherwood, Hans-Martin Vieth, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett 79, 2480 (2001) -- minor changes
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105147
abstract: Current experiments in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computing are limited by low initial polarization. To address this problem, we have investigated the use of optical pumping techniques to enhance the polarization of a 2-qubit NMR quantum computer (13C and 1H in 13CHCl3). To efficiently use the increased polarization, we have generalized the procedure for effective pure state preparation. With this new, more flexible scheme, an effective pure state was prepared with polarization-enhancement of a factor of 10 compared to the thermal state. An implementation of Grover's quantum search algorithm was demonstrated using this new technique.

id: quant-ph/0105148
title: Generation of bright squeezed light at 1.06 $m$ using cascaded non-linearities in a triply resonant c.w. PPLN OPO
authors: K.S. Zhang, T. Coudreau, M. Martinelli, A. Maitre, C. Fabre
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. A, uses REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105148
abstract: We have used an ultra-low threshold continuous-wave Optical Parametric Oscillator (OPO) to reduce the quantum fluctuations of the reflected pump beam below the shot noise limit. The OPO consisted of a triply resonant cavity containing a Periodically-Poled Lithium Niobate crystal pumped by a Nd:YAG laser and giving signal and idler wavelengths close to 2.12 microns and a threshold as low as 300 microwatts. We detected the quantum fluctuations of the pump beam reflected by the OPO using a slightly modified homodyne detection technique. The measured noise reduction was 30 % (inferred noise reduction at the output of the OPO 38 %).

id: quant-ph/0105149
title: Quantum computer inverting time arrow for macroscopic systems
authors: B. Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D v.19 p.263 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105149
abstract: A legend tells that once Loschmidt asked Boltzmann on what happens to his statistical theory if one inverts the velocities of all particles, so that, due to the reversibility of Newton's equations, they return from the equilibrium to a nonequilibrium initial state. Boltzmann only replied ``then go and invert them''. This problem of the relationship between the microscopic and macroscopic descriptions of the physical world and time-reversibility has been hotly debated from the XIXth century up to nowadays. At present, no modern computer is able to perform Boltzmann's demand for a macroscopic number of particles. In addition, dynamical chaos implies exponential growth of any imprecision in the inversion that leads to practical irreversibility. Here we show that a quantum computer composed of a few tens of qubits, and operating even with moderate precision, can perform Boltzmann's demand for a macroscopic number of classical particles. Thus, even in the regime of dynamical chaos, a realistic quantum computer allows to rebuild a specific initial distribution from a macroscopic state given by thermodynamic laws.

id: quant-ph/0105150
title: Doppler cooling of a Coulomb crystal
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Juergen Eschner
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 063407 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105150
abstract: We study theoretically Doppler laser-cooling of a cluster of 2-level atoms confined in a linear ion trap. Using several consecutive steps of averaging we derive, from the full quantum mechanical master equation, an equation for the total mechanical energy of the one dimensional crystal, defined on a coarse-grained energy scale whose grid size is smaller than the linewidth of the electronic transition. This equation describes the cooling dynamics for an arbitrary number of ions and in the quantum regime. We discuss the validity of the ergodic assumption (i.e. that the phase space distribution is only a function of energy). From our equation we derive the semiclassical limit (i.e. when the mechanical motion can be treated classically) and the Lamb-Dicke limit (i.e. when the size of the mechanical wave function is much smaller than the laser wavelength). We find a Fokker-Planck equation for the total mechanical energy of the system, whose solution is in agreement with previous analytical calculations which were based on different assumptions and valid only in their specific regimes. Finally, in the classical limit we derive an analytic expression for the average coupling, by light scattering, between motional states at different energies.

id: quant-ph/0105151
title: Lower bound for the quantum capacity of a discrete memoryless quantum channel
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 16 pages, REVTeX4. To appear in J. Math. Phys. A critical error in fidelity calculation was corrected by using Hamada's result (quant-ph/0112103). In the third version, we simplified formula and derivation of the lower bound by proving p(Gamma)+q(Gamma)=1. In the second version, we added an analogue of the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound for linear stabilizer codes
journal: J. Math. Phys., vol. 43, no. 9, pp. 4391-4403, Sept. 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105151
abstract: We generalize the random coding argument of stabilizer codes and derive a lower bound on the quantum capacity of an arbitrary discrete memoryless quantum channel. For the depolarizing channel, our lower bound coincides with that obtained by Bennett et al. We also slightly improve the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound for general stabilizer codes, and establish an analogue of the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound for linear stabilizer codes. Our proof is restricted to the binary quantum channels, but its extension of to l-adic channels is straightforward.

id: quant-ph/0105152
title: An implementation of the polynomial Lie algebra methods for solving a class of nonlinear models in quantum optics
authors: V. P. Karassiov, A. A. Gusev, S. I. Vinitsky
comments: 9 pages, LATEX; submitted to Proceedings of XXIII Intternational Colloqium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (Dubna, July 31-August 5 2000)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105152
abstract: We develop some calculation schemes to determine dynamics of a wide class of integrable quantum-optical models using their symmetry adapted reformulation in terms of polynomial Lie algebras $su_{pd}(2)$. These schemes, based on "diagonal" representations of model evolution operators (via diagonalizing Hamiltonians with the help of the $su_{pd}(2)$ defining relations), are implemented in the form adapted for numerical calculations. Their efficiency is demonstrated on the example of the second-harmonic-generation model.

id: quant-ph/0105153
title: Semiclassical Approximations in Phase Space with Coherent States
authors: M. Baranger, M. A. M. de Aguiar, F. Keck, H. J. Korsch, B. Schellhaass
comments: 80 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 34 (2001) 7227
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105153
abstract: We present a complete derivation of the semiclassical limit of the coherent state propagator in one dimension, starting from path integrals in phase space. We show that the arbitrariness in the path integral representation, which follows from the overcompleteness of the coherent states, results in many different semiclassical limits. We explicitly derive two possible semiclassical formulae for the propagator, we suggest a third one, and we discuss their relationships. We also derive an initial value representation for the semiclassical propagator, based on an initial gaussian wavepacket. It turns out to be related to, but different from, Heller's thawed gaussian approximation. It is very different from the Herman--Kluk formula, which is not a correct semiclassical limit. We point out errors in two derivations of the latter. Finally we show how the semiclassical coherent state propagators lead to WKB-type quantization rules and to approximations for the Husimi distributions of stationary states.

id: quant-ph/0105154
title: Cooperative effects on Optical Forces- Dicke's Bullet
authors: P.V.Panat, S.V.Lawande
comments: 10 pages + 1 figure (submitted to PRL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105154
abstract: We investigate the cooperative effects on optical forces in a system of N two level atoms occupying a volume of dimensions to within $\lambda ^3$, where lambda is radiation wavelength and is driven by a coherent radiation field with a spatial profile like Laguerre-Gaussian beam or ideal Bessel beam.We show a dramatic enhancement on optical forces as well as the angular momentum imparted to the atom by a factor of $N ^2$.

id: quant-ph/0105155
title: Quantum control using sequences of simple control pulses
authors: S. G. Schirmer, A. D. Greentree, V. Ramakrishna, H. Rabitz
comments: ca. 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105155
abstract: Structured decompositions of a desired unitary operator are employed to derive control schemes that achieve certain control objectives for finite-level quantum systems using only sequences of simple control pulses such as square waves with finite rise and decay times or Gaussian wavepackets. The technique is applied to find control schemes that achieve population transfers for pure-state systems, complete inversions of the ensemble populations for mixed-state systems, create arbitrary superposition states and optimize the ensemble average of observables.

id: quant-ph/0105156
title: Clock synchronization with dispersion cancellation
authors: V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, F. N. C. Wong
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 117902 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0105156
abstract: The dispersion cancellation feature of pulses which are entangled in frequency is employed to synchronize clocks of distant parties. The proposed protocol is insensitive to the pulse distortion caused by transit through a dispersive medium. Since there is cancellation to all orders, also the effects of slowly fluctuating dispersive media are compensated. The experimental setup can be realized with currently available technology, at least for a proof of principle.

id: cond-mat/0105027
title: Bilayer Quantum Hall System as a Macroscopic Qubit
authors: Takeshi Inagaki
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105027
abstract: In the bilayer quantum Hall system, a spontaneously charge imbalance state appears at the ground energy level. Gap in the collective excitation energy makes it stable against decoherence in macroscopic level. This state behaves as a spin 1/2 representation of SU(2) and can be controlled by applying the interlayer voltage. We suggest this system can be regarded as a macroscopic realization of a qubit for a quantum computer.

id: cond-mat/0105108
title: Periodic Chaotic Billiards: Quantum-Classical Correspondence in Energy Space
authors: G. A. Luna-Acosta, J. A. Mndez-Bermdez, F. M. Izrailev
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 64, 036206 (2001).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105108
abstract: We investigate the properties of eigenstates and local density of states (LDOS) for a periodic 2D rippled billiard, focusing on their quantum-classical correspondence in energy representation. To construct the classical counterparts of LDOS and the structure of eigenstates (SES), the effects of the boundary are first incorporated (via a canonical transformation) into an effective potential, rendering the one-particle motion in the 2D rippled billiard equivalent to that of two-interacting particles in 1D geometry. We show that classical counterparts of SES and LDOS in the case of strong chaotic motion reveal quite a good correspondence with the quantum quantities. We also show that the main features of the SES and LDOS can be explained in terms of the underlying classical dynamics, in particular of certain periodic orbits. On the other hand, statistical properties of eigenstates and LDOS turn out to be different from those prescribed by random matrix theory. We discuss the quantum effects responsible for the non-ergodic character of the eigenstates and individual LDOS that seem to be generic for this type of billiards with a large number of transverse channels.

id: cond-mat/0105137
title: Wigner quasi-distribution function for charged particles in classical electromagnetic fields
authors: M. Levanda, V Fleurov
comments: 47 pages; accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics (2001), 292, 199 - 231
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105137
abstract: A gauge-invariant Wigner quasi-distribution function for charged particles in classical electromagnetic fields is derived in a rigorous way. Its relation to the axial gauge is discussed, as well as the relation between the kinetic and canonical momenta in the Wigner representation. Gauge-invariant quantum analogs of Hamilton-Jacobi and Boltzmann kinetic equations are formulated for arbitrary classical electromagnetic fields in terms of the "slashed" derivatives and momenta, introduced for this purpose. The kinetic meaning of these slashed quantities is discussed. We introduce gauge-invariant conditional moments and use them to derive a kinetic momentum continuity equation. This equation provides us with a hydrodynamic representation for quantum transport processes and a definition of the "collision force". The hydrodynamic equation is applied for the rotation part of the electron motion. The theory is illustrated by its application in three examples. These are: Wigner quasi-distribution function and equations for an electron in a magnetic field and harmonic potential; Wigner quasi-distribution function for a charged particle in periodic systems using the kq representation; two Wigner quasi-distribution functions for heavy-mass polaron in an electric field.

id: cond-mat/0105169
title: Quantum algorithms for Josephson networks
authors: Jens Siewert, Rosario Fazio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 87, 257905 (2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105169
abstract: We analyze possible implementations of quantum algorithms in a system of (macroscopic) Josephson charge qubits. System layout and parameters to realize the Deutsch algorithm with up to three qubits are provided. Special attention is paid to the necessity of entangled states in the various implementations. Further, we demonstrate explicitely that the gates to implement the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm can be realized by using a system of uncoupled qubits.

id: cond-mat/0105242
title: Boltzmann's Approach to Statistical Mechanics
authors: Sheldon Goldstein
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Chance in Physics: Foundations and Perspectives, edited by Jean Bricmont, Detlef Durr, Maria C. Galavotti, Giancarlo Ghirardi, Francesco Petruccione, and Nino Zanghi, Lecture Notes in Physics 574, (Springer-Verlag)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105242
abstract: In the last quarter of the nineteenth century, Ludwig Boltzmann explained how irreversible macroscopic laws, in particular the second law of thermodynamics, originate in the time-reversible laws of microscopic physics. Boltzmann's analysis, the essence of which I shall review here, is basically correct. The most famous criticisms of Boltzmann's later work on the subject have little merit. Most twentieth century innovations -- such as the identification of the state of a physical system with a probability distribution $\varrho$ on its phase space, of its thermodynamic entropy with the Gibbs entropy of $\varrho$, and the invocation of the notions of ergodicity and mixing for the justification of the foundations of statistical mechanics -- are thoroughly misguided.

id: cond-mat/0105426
title: On topological defect formation in the process of symmetry breaking phase transitions
authors: E.Alfinito, O.Romei, G.Vitiello
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. B16 (2002) 93-106
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105426
abstract: By resorting to some results in quantum field theories with spontaneous breakdown of symmetry we show that an explanation based on microscopic dynamics can be given of the fact that topological defect formation is observed during the process of non-equilibrium phase transitions characterized by a non-zero order parameter. We show that the Nambu-Goldstone particle acquires an effective non-zero mass due to the boundary (finite volume) effects and this is related with the size of the defect. We also relate such volume effect with temperature effect.

id: cond-mat/0105435
title: Domain formation in noninstantaneous symmetry breaking phase transitions
authors: E. Alfinito, G. Vitiello
comments: Revised version, accepted for publications on PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 65 (2002) 054105
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0105435
abstract: In the framework of the Ginzburg-Landau harmonic potential approximation, we present a possible modeling of the time-dependence of the frequency of the order parameter mode suitable to account for the formation of correlated domains in non-instantaneous symmetry breaking phase transitions. An interesting spectrum of possibilities for the size and the life-time of these domains emerges, which appears to be consistent with the conclusions of other, differently grounded analysis.

id: hep-ph/0105019
title: Lorentz Group in Feynman's World
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTex 25 pages including 6 psfigs. Contribution to "Lorentz and Poincare Invariance--100 Years in the Development of Relativity" edited by J. P. Hsu and P. Zhang (World Scientific, to be published)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0105019
abstract: R. P. Feynman was quite fond of inventing new physics. It is shown that some of his physical ideas can be supported by the mathematical instruments available from the Lorentz group. As a consequence, it is possible to construct a Lorentz-covariant picture of the parton model. It is shown first how the Lorentz group can be used for studying the internal space-time symmetries of relativistic particles. These symmetries are dictated by Wigner's little groups, whose transformations leave the energy-momentum four-vector of a given particle invariant. The symmetry of massive particles is like the three-dimensional rotation group, while the symmetry of massless particles is locally isomorphic to the two-dimensional Euclidean group. It is noted that the E(2)-like symmetry of massless particles can be obtained as an infinite-momentum and/or zero-mass limit of the O(3)-like little group for massive particles. It is shown that the formalism can be extended to cover relativistic particles with space-time extensions, such as heavy ions and hadrons in the quark model. It is possible to construct representations of the little group using harmonic oscillators, which Feynman et al. used for studying relativistic extended hadrons. This oscillator formalism allows us to show that Feynman's parton model is a Lorentz-boosted quark model. The formalism also allows us to explain in detail Feynman's rest of the universe which is contained in his parton picture.

id: hep-ph/0105206
title: Weak Radiative Decays of Hyperons: Quark Model and Nonlocality
authors: P. Zenczykowski
comments: Revised with minor changes; 31 LaTeX pages, 1 .ps figure; to appear in Acta Phys. Pol. B
journal: Acta Phys.Polon. B33 (2002) 1253-1276
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0105206
abstract: It is proved that symmetry structure of the parity-viol. (p.v.) amplitudes of weak radiative hyperon decays in the VMD approach, and the violation of Hara's theorem in particular, are also obtained when direct coupling e_q \bar{q}\gamma_{\mu}q A^{\mu} of photon to quarks is used in place of VMD. Thus, violation of Hara's theorem in VMD-based models does not result from the lack of gauge invariance. It is further shown that, in the static limit of the quark model, the CA commutator term in the p.v. amplitudes of nonleptonic hyperon decays (NLHD) and the parity-violating \Sigma ^+ \to p \gamma decay amplitude are proportional to each other. As a result, Hara's theorem may be satisfied in this limit if and only if the contribution from the CA commutator in NLHD is zero. Violation of Hara's theorem is traced back to the nonlocality of quark model states in the static limit. It is argued that the ensuing intrinsic baryon nonlocality does not have to be unphysical. It is stressed that the \Xi ^0 \to \Lambda \gamma asymmetry will provide very important information concerning the presence or absence of nonlocal features in p.v. photon coupling to baryons at vanishing photon momentum. If the \Xi ^0 \to \Lambda \gamma asymmetry is found negative, Hara's theorem is satisfied but the gauge-invariant quark model machinery predicting its violation must miss some contribution, or be modified. If experiment confirms positive \Xi ^0 \to \Lambda \gamma asymmetry, then, most likely, Hara's theorem is violated. Although positive \Xi ^0 \to \Lambda \gamma asymmetry admits of the possibility that Hara's theorem is satisfied, this alternative is in disagreement with hints suggested by the similarity of photon and vector-meson couplings and the observed size of p.v. nuclear forces.

id: hep-ph/0105303
title: Massless neutrino oscillations
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 27 pages, plain-TeX, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D64 (2001) 085015
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0105303
abstract: Quantum dynamical semigroups provide a general framework for studying the evolution of open systems. Neutrino propagation both in vacuum and in matter can be analyzed using these techniques: they allow a consistent treatment of non-standard, dissipative effects that can alter the pattern of neutrino oscillations. In particular, initially massless neutrinos can give rise to a nonvanishing flavour transition probability, involving in addition the Majorana CP-violating mixing phase.

id: hep-th/0105013
title: On the Statistical Origin of Topological Symmetries
authors: K. Aghababaei Samani, A. Mostafazadeh
comments: 12 pages
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A17 (2002) 131-140
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105013
abstract: We investigate a quantum system possessing a parasupersymmetry of order 2, an orthosupersymmetry of order $p$, a fractional supersymmetry of order $p+1$, and topological symmetries of type $(1,p)$ and $(1,1,...,1)$. We obtain the corresponding symmetry generators, explore their relationship, and show that they may be expressed in terms of the creation and annihilation operators for an ordinary boson and orthofermions of order $p$. We give a realization of parafermions of order~2 using orthofermions of arbitrary order $p$, discuss a $p=2$ parasupersymmetry between $p=2$ parafermions and parabosons of arbitrary order, and show that every orthosupersymmetric system possesses topological symmetries. We also reveal a correspondence between the orthosupersymmetry of order $p$ and the fractional supersymmetry of order $p+1$.

id: hep-th/0105030
title: Adelic Path Integrals for Quadratic Lagrangians
authors: G.S. Djordjevic, B. Dragovich, L. Nesic
comments: 17 pages, no figures, to be published in Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics
journal: Inf.Dim.Anal.Quant.Probab.Rel.Top.6:179-195,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105030
abstract: Feynman's path integral in adelic quantum mechanics is considered. The propagator K(x'',t'';x',t') for one-dimensional adelic systems with quadratic Lagrangians is analytically evaluated. Obtained exact general formula has the form which is invariant under interchange of the number fields R and Q_p.

id: hep-th/0105135
title: Nonlinear supersymmetry on the plane in magnetic field and quasi-exactly solvable systems
authors: Sergey M. Klishevich, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 17 pages; references updated, to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B616 (2001) 403-418
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105135
abstract: The nonlinear $n$-supersymmetry with holomorphic supercharges is investigated for the 2D system describing the motion of a charged spin-1/2 particle in an external magnetic field. The universal algebraic structure underlying the holomorphic $n$-supersymmetry is found. It is shown that the essential difference of the 2D realization of the holomorphic $n$-supersymmetry from the 1D case recently analysed by us consists in appearance of the central charge entering non-trivially into the superalgebra. The relation of the 2D holomorphic $n$-supersymmetry to the 1D quasi-exactly solvable (QES) problems is demonstrated by means of the reduction of the systems with hyperbolic or trigonometric form of the magnetic field. The reduction of the $n$-supersymmetric system with the polynomial magnetic field results in the family of the one- dimensional QES systems with the sextic potential. Unlike the original 2D holomorphic supersymmetry, the reduced 1D supersymmetry associated with $x^6+...$ family is characterized by the non-holomorphic supercharges of the special form found by Aoyama et al.

id: hep-th/0105223
title: Planar Dirac Electron in Coulomb and Magnetic Fields: a Bethe ansatz approach
authors: Chun-Ming Chiang, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: LaTex, 12 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 43-51
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105223
abstract: The Dirac equation for an electron in two spatial dimensions in the Coulomb and homogeneous magnetic fields is an example of the so-called quasi-exactly solvable models. The solvable parts of its spectrum was previously solved from the recursion relations. In this work we present a purely algebraic solution based on the Bethe ansatz equations. It is realised that, unlike the corresponding problems in the Schr\"odinger and the Klein-Gordon case, here the unknown parameters to be solved for in the Bethe ansatz equations include not only the roots of wave function assumed, but also a parameter from the relevant operator. We also show that the quasi-exactly solvable differential equation does not belong to the classes based on the algebra $sl_2$.

id: hep-th/0105226
title: Negative Probability and Uncertainty Relations
authors: Thomas Curtright, Cosmas Zachos
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A16:2381-2385,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105226
abstract: A concise derivation of all uncertainty relations is given entirely within the context of phase-space quantization, without recourse to operator methods, to the direct use of Weyl's correspondence, or to marginal distributions of x and p.

id: hep-th/0105251
title: Spacetime and Fields, a Quantum Texture
authors: Sergio Doplicher
comments: LaTeX, 15 pages. Misprints and wording corrected, references added; change in section 3. Related references: hep-th/0303037, hep-th/0201222, hep-th/0301100
journal: Proceedings of the 37th Karpacz Winter School of Theoretical Physics, 2001, 204-213
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0105251
abstract: We report on joint work, past and in progress, with K.Fredenhagen and with J.E,Roberts, on the quantum structure of spacetime in the small which is dictated by the principles of Quantum Mechanics and of General Relativity; we comment on how these principles point to a deep link between coordinates and fields. This is an expanded version of a lecture delivered at the 37th Karpacz School in Theoretical Physics, February 2001.

id: math-ph/0105008
title: Analyses of a Yang-Mills field over the three-level quantum systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: seven pages, LaTeX, two tables
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0105008
abstract: Utilizing a number of results of Dittmann, we investigate the nature of the Yang-Mills field over the eight-dimensional convex set, endowed with the Bures metric, of three-level quantum systems. Adopting a numerical strategy, we first decompose the field into self-dual and anti-self-dual components, by implementing the octonionic equations of Corrigan, Devchand, Fairlie and Nuyts. For each of these three fields, we obtain approximations to: (1) the Yang-Mills functional; (2) certain quantities studied by Bilge, Dereli, and Kocak in their analysis of self-dual Yang-Mills fields in eight dimensions; and (3) other measures of interest.

id: math-ph/0105011
title: Optimal Quantum Pumps
authors: J.E. Avron, A. Elgart, G.M. Graf, L. Sadun
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0105011
abstract: We study adiabatic quantum pumps on time scales that are short relative to the cycle of the pump. In this regime the pump is characterized by the matrix of energy shift which we introduce as the dual to Wigner's time delay. The energy shift determines the charge transport, the dissipation, the noise and the entropy production. We prove a general lower bound on dissipation in a quantum channel and define optimal pumps as those that saturate the bound. We give a geometric characterization of optimal pumps and show that they are noiseless and transport integral charge in a cycle. Finally we discuss an example of an optimal pump related to the Hall effect.

id: math/0105255
title: Quantum Computing and the Jones Polynomial
authors: Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 51 pages, 20 figures, LaTeX manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0105255
abstract: This paper is an exploration of relationships between the Jones polynomial and quantum computing. We discuss the structure of the Jones polynomial in relation to representations of the Temperley Lieb algebra, and give an example of a unitary representation of the braid group. We discuss the evaluation of the polynomial as a generalized quantum amplitude and show how the braiding part of the evaluation can be construed as a quantum computation when the braiding representation is unitary. The question of an efficient quantum algorithm for computing the whole polynomial remains open.

id: physics/0105035
title: Schroedinger uncertainty relation and its minimization states
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 10 pages, 3 figures. Introductory review (on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of Schroedinger original paper)
journal: Phys.World 24 (2001) 107-116
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0105035
abstract: An introductory survey on the Schroedinger uncertainty relation and its minimization states is presented with minimal number of formulas and some historical points. The case of the two canonical observables, position and momentum, is discussed in greater detail: basic properties of the two subsets of minimization states (canonical squeezed and coherent states) are reviewed and compared. The case of two non-canonical observables is breafly outlined. Stanfard SU(1,1) and SU(2) group-related coherent states can be defined as states that minimize Schroedinger inequality for the three pairs of generators simultaneously. The symmetry of the Heisenberg and Schroedinger relations is also discussed, and two natural generalizations to the cases of several observables and several states are noted.

id: physics/0105046
title: The Depth and Breadth of John Bell's Physics
authors: R. Jackiw, A. Shimony
comments: 46 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX; editorial corrections; email correspondence to R. Jackiw <jackiw@lns.mit.edu>
journal: Phys.Perspect.4:78-116,2004
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0105046
abstract: John Bell's investigations in foundations of quantum mechanics, particle physics, and quantum field theory are recalled.

id: physics/0105048
title: Carnot cycle for an oscillator
authors: J. Arnaud, L. Chusseau, F. Philippe
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, sumitted to European Journal of Physics Changed content: Fluctuations are considered
journal: 
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0105048
abstract: Carnot established in 1824 that the efficiency of cyclic engines operating between a hot bath at absolute temperature $T_{hot}$ and a bath at a lower temperature $T_{cold}$ cannot exceed $1-T_{cold}/T_{hot}$. We show that linear oscillators alternately in contact with hot and cold baths obey this principle in the quantum as well as in the classical regime. The expression of the work performed is derived from a simple prescription. Reversible and non-reversible cycles are illustrated. The paper begins with historical considerations and is essentially self-contained.

id: physics/0105063
title: Photon number variance in isolated cavities
authors: Fabrice Philippe, Jacques Arnaud
comments: 4 pages, to be submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0105063
abstract: We consider a strictly isolated single-mode optical cavity resonating at angular frequency omega containing atoms whose one-electron level energies are supposed to be: hbar*omega, 2*hbar*omega,...B*hbar\omega, and m photons. If initially the atoms are in their highest energy state and m=0, we find that at equilibrium: variance(m)/mean(m)=(B+1)/6, indicating that the internal field statistics is sub-Poissonian if the number of atomic levels B does not exceed 4. Remarkably, this result does not depend on the number of atoms, nor on the number of electrons that each atom incorporates. Our result has application to the statistics of the light emitted by pulsed lasers and nuclear magnetic resonance. On the mathematical side, the result is based on the restricted partitions of integers.

id: physics/0105098
title: Unified description of magic numbers of metal clusters in terms of the 3-dimensional q-deformed harmonic oscillator
authors: D. Bonatsos, N. Karoussos, D. Lenis, P. P. Raychev, R. P. Roussev, P. A. Terziev
comments: 23 pages including 7 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.A62:013203,2000
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0105098
abstract: Magic numbers predicted by a 3-dimensional q-deformed harmonic oscillator with Uq(3)>SOq(3) symmetry are compared to experimental data for atomic clusters of alkali metals (Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs), noble metals (Cu, Ag, Au), divalent metals (Zn, Cd), and trivalent metals (Al, In), as well as to theoretical predictions of jellium models, Woods-Saxon and wine bottle potentials, and to the classification scheme using the 3n+l pseudo quantum number. In alkali metal clusters and noble metal clusters the 3-dimensional q-deformed harmonic oscillator correctly predicts all experimentally observed magic numbers up to 1500 (which is the expected limit of validity for theories based on the filling of electronic shells), while in addition it gives satisfactory results for the magic numbers of clusters of divalent metals and trivalent metals, thus indicating that Uq(3), which is a nonlinear extension of the U(3) symmetry of the spherical (3-dimensional isotropic) harmonic oscillator, is a good candidate for being the symmetry of systems of several metal clusters. The Taylor expansions of angular momentum dependent potentials approximately producing the same spectrum as the 3-dimensional q-deformed harmonic oscillator are found to be similar to the Taylor expansions of the symmetrized Woods-Saxon and wine-bottle symmetrized Woods-Saxon potentials, which are known to provide successful fits of the Ekardt potentials.

