id: quant-ph/0108001
title: Franson-type experiment realizes two-qubit quantum logic gate
authors: Kaoru Sanaka, Karin Kawahara, Takahiro Kuga
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108001
abstract: Quantum computers promise great improvements in solving problems such as factoring large integers, simulating quantum systems, and database searching. Using a photon as a quantum bit (qubit) is one of the most promising ways to realize a universal quantum computer because the coherent superposition state of a photon is very robust against various sources of decoherence. However, it is too difficult to realize two-qubit (photon) gates because it requires huge nonlinearity between photons. Here we show the realization of a controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate, the most important and elemental two-qubit gate for quantum computation, by extending our previous research. The heart of our experiment is the conditional measurement of two-photon coincidences in the Franson-type experiment[7]. The photon counting measurement plays the same role as the nonlinearity required for the two-qubit gate, and our system reproduces the truth table of the CNOT gate. Furthermore, we create an entangled state from the superposition state by our gate, which is clear evidence that our gate works as a quantum logic gate. Our results make it possible to manipulate the quantum state of photons including entanglement and represent significant progress in the operation of various algorithms in quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0108002
title: Two theories of decoherence
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108002
abstract: Theories of decoherence come in two flavors---Platonic and Aristotelian. Platonists grant ontological primacy to the concepts and mathematical symbols by which we describe or comprehend the physical world. Aristotelians grant it to the physical world. The significance one attaches to the phenomenon of decoherence depends on the school to which one belongs. The debate about the significance of quantum states has for the most part been carried on between Platonists and Kantians, who advocate an epistemic interpretation, with Aristotelians caught in the crossfire. For the latter, quantum states are neither states of Nature nor states of knowledge. The real issue is not the kind of reality that we should attribute to quantum states but the reality of the spatial and temporal distinctions that we make. Once this is recognized, the necessity of attributing ontological primacy to facts becomes obvious, the Platonic stance becomes inconsistent, and the Kantian point of view becomes unnecessarily restrictive and unilluminating.

id: quant-ph/0108003
title: Diffusion Resonances in Action Space for an Atom Optics Kicked Rotor with Decoherence
authors: A.J. Daley, A.S. Parkins, R. Leonhardt, S.M. Tan
comments: 4 Pages, RevTeX 4, 5 Figures. Updated Figures, Minor Changes to text, Corrected References
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108003
abstract: We numerically investigate momentum diffusion rates for the pulse kicked rotor across the quantum to classical transition as the dynamics are made more macroscopic by increasing the total system action. For initial and late time rates we observe an enhanced diffusion peak which shifts and scales with changing kick strength, and we also observe distinctive peaks around quantum resonances. Our investigations take place in the context of a system of ultracold atoms which is coupled to its environment via spontaneous emission decoherence, and the effects should be realisable in ongoing experiments.

id: quant-ph/0108004
title: Quantum walks in higher dimensions
authors: Troy D. Mackay, Stephen D. Bartlett, Leigh T. Stephenson, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35, 2745 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108004
abstract: We analyze the quantum walk in higher spatial dimensions and compare classical and quantum spreading as a function of time. Tensor products of Hadamard transformations and the discrete Fourier transform arise as natural extensions of the quantum coin toss in the one-dimensional walk simulation, and other illustrative transformations are also investigated. We find that entanglement between the dimensions serves to reduce the rate of spread of the quantum walk. The classical limit is obtained by introducing a random phase variable.

id: quant-ph/0108005
title: Decoherence-induced wave packet splitting
authors: Young-Tak Chough, Hyunchul Nha, Sang Wook Kim, Sun-Hyun Youn, Kyungwon An
comments: Roughly 10 papges with 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108005
abstract: We provide an intuitive interpretation of the optical Stern-Gerlach effect (OSGE) in the dressed-state point of view. We also analyze the effect of atomic damping in an experiment on the OSGE. We show that the atomic damping also causes the wave packet splitting, in a non-mechanical fashion, as opposed to the coherent process that is mechanical.

id: quant-ph/0108006
title: Giant light shift of atoms near optical microstructures
authors: Peter Horak, Peter Domokos, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 61, 459 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108006
abstract: Atoms coupled to optical fields confined in one and two spatial dimensions in solid state microstructures can experience very large light shifts if the driving frequencies are close to a resonance of the microstructures and an atomic transition. Using the simple example of a quasi one-dimensional waveguide structure we can analytically calculate the atomic AC Stark shift and the modifications of the light field induced by the presence of the atom. A large enhancement of the effective interaction strength is found due to a non uniform mode density. Experimentally this should be visible by monitoring the scattered light field as well as by the modification of the atomic trajectories bouncing from the evanescent light.

id: quant-ph/0108007
title: Heating and decoherence suppression using decoupling techniques
authors: D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Typos corrected, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 012305 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108007
abstract: We study the application of decoupling techniques to the case of a damped vibrational mode of a chain of trapped ions, which can be used as a quantum bus in linear ion trap quantum computers. We show that vibrational heating could be efficiently suppressed using appropriate ``parity kicks''. We also show that vibrational decoherence can be suppressed by this decoupling procedure, even though this is generally more difficult because the rate at which the parity kicks have to applied increases with the effective bath temperature.

id: quant-ph/0108008
title: Towards a quantum Hall effect for atoms using electric fields
authors: Marie Ericsson, Erik Sjoqvist
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 013607 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108008
abstract: An atomic analogue of Landau quantization based on the Aharonov-Casher (AC) interaction is developed. The effect provides a first step towards an atomic quantum Hall system using electric fields, which may be realized in a Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: quant-ph/0108009
title: Effective Field Theories for the Casimir Effect at Finite Temperature
authors: Jens O. Andersen
comments: 4 pages, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108009
abstract: We discuss corrections to the Casimir effect at finite temperature and effective field theory. Recently, it has been shown that effective field theories can reproduce radiative corrections to the Casimir energy calculated in full QED. We apply effective field theory methods at finite temperature and reproduce the Casimir free energy. We show that the system undergoes dimensional reduction at high temperature and that it can be described by an effective three-dimensional field theory.

id: quant-ph/0108010
title: Classical simulation of noninteracting-fermion quantum circuits
authors: Barbara M. Terhal, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure, uses wick.sty; references added to recent results by E. Knill
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032325/1-10 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108010
abstract: We show that a class of quantum computations that was recently shown to be efficiently simulatable on a classical computer by Valiant corresponds to a physical model of noninteracting fermions in one dimension. We give an alternative proof of his result using the language of fermions and extend the result to noninteracting fermions with arbitrary pairwise interactions, where gates can be conditioned on outcomes of complete von Neumann measurements in the computational basis on other fermionic modes in the circuit. This last result is in remarkable contrast with the case of noninteracting bosons where universal quantum computation can be achieved by allowing gates to be conditioned on classical bits (quant-ph/0006088).

id: quant-ph/0108011
title: Stochastic control of quantum coherence
authors: Stefano Mancini, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi, Rodolfo Bonifacio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 60, 498-504 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108011
abstract: The application of a random modulation of a system parameter usually increases decoherence effects. Here we show how, employing an appropriate stochastic modulation, it is instead possible to preserve the quantum coherence of a system.

id: quant-ph/0108012
title: Qubit logic modeling by electronic circuits and electromagnetic signals
authors: G.A. Kouzaev
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures. The paper abstract was submitted (May 2001)to the SPIE Conf. Photonics West -2002. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108012
abstract: In the paper an approach is presented allowing to model quantum logic circuits by electronic gates for discrete spatially modulated electromagnetic signals. The designed circuitry is for modeling low scale quantum nets of general design and quantum devices based only on superposition principle of their work.

id: quant-ph/0108013
title: Privacy Amplification in Quantum Key Distribution: Pointwise Bound versus Average Bound
authors: G. Gilbert, M. Hamrick, F.J. Thayer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108013
abstract: In order to be practically useful, quantum cryptography must not only provide a guarantee of secrecy, but it must provide this guarantee with a useful, sufficiently large throughput value. The standard result of generalized privacy amplification yields an upper bound only on the average value of the mutual information available to an eavesdropper. Unfortunately this result by itself is inadequate for cryptographic applications. A naive application of the standard result leads one to incorrectly conclude that an acceptable upper bound on the mutual information has been achieved. It is the pointwise value of the bound on the mutual information, associated with the use of some specific hash function, that corresponds to actual implementations. We provide a fully rigorous mathematical derivation that shows how to obtain a cryptographically acceptable upper bound on the actual, pointwise value of the mutual information. Unlike the bound on the average mutual information, the value of the upper bound on the pointwise mutual information and the number of bits by which the secret key is compressed are specified by two different parameters, and the actual realization of the bound in the pointwise case is necessarily associated with a specific failure probability. The constraints amongst these parameters, and the effect of their values on the system throughput, have not been previously analyzed. We show that the necessary shortening of the key dictated by the cryptographically correct, pointwise bound, can still produce viable throughput rates that will be useful in practice.

id: quant-ph/0108014
title: Some bounds for quantum copying
authors: A. E. Rastegin
comments: 11 pages, RevTex, 2 eps figures. The paper is reorganized. Three references are added. The notion of the relative error is better motived. The proofs are simplified. More explanations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108014
abstract: We propose new optimality criterion for the estimation of state-dependent cloning. We call this measure the relative error because the one compares the errors in the copies with contiguous size taking into account the similarity of states to be copied. A copying transformation and dimension of state space are not specified. Only the unitarity of quantum mechanical transformations is used. The presented approach is based on the notion of the angle between two states. Firstly, several useful statements simply expressed in terms of angles are proved. Among them there are the spherical triangle inequality and the inequality establishing the upper bound on the modulus of difference between probability distributions generated by two any states for an arbitrary measurement. The tightest lower bound on the relative error is then obtained. Hillery and Buzek originally examined an approximate state-dependent copying and obtained the lower bound on the absolute error. We consider relationship between the size of error and the corresponding probability distributions and obtain the tightest lower bound on the absolute error. Thus, the proposed approach supplements and reinforces the results obtained by Hillery and Buzek. Finally, the basic findings of investigation for the relative error are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0108015
title: Spatial correlations in hexagons generated via a Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Alessandra Gatti, Stefano Mancini
comments: ReVTeX file, 20 pages, 7 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 013816 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108015
abstract: We consider the hexagonal pattern forming in the cross-section of an optical beam produced by a Kerr cavity, and we study the quantum correlations characterizing this structure. By using arguments related to the symmetry broken by the pattern formation, we identify a complete scenario of six-mode entanglement. Five independent phase quadratures combinations, connecting the hexagonal modes, are shown to exhibit sub-shot-noise fluctuations. By means of a non-linear quantum calculation technique, quantum correlations among the mode photon numbers are demonstrated and calculated.

id: quant-ph/0108016
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity of Hamiltonians under imaginary shift of the co-ordinate : real spectrum of complex potentials
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 7 pages, no figure, eq.5 is changed, eqs.6a-e added, submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108016
abstract: We propose that the real spectrum and the orthogonality of the states for several known complex potentials of both types, PT-symmetric and non-PT-symmetric can be understood in terms of currently proposed $\eta$-pseudo-Hermiticity (Mostafazadeh, quant-ph/0107001) of a Hamiltonian, provided the Hermitian linear automorphism, $\eta$, is introduced as $e^{-\theta p}$ which affects an imaginary shift of the co-ordinate : $e^{-\theta p} x e^{\theta p} = x+i\theta$.

id: quant-ph/0108017
title: Quantum English Auctions
authors: E. W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, LaTeX: no special macros
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108017
abstract: We continue the analysis of quantum-like description of markets and economics. The approach has roots in the recently developed quantum game theory and quantum computing. The present paper is devoted to quantum English auction which are a special class of quantum market games. The approach allows to calculate profit intensities for various possible strategies.

id: quant-ph/0108018
title: Perturbation theory for quantum-mechanical observables
authors: J. D. Franson, Michelle M. Donegan
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A. 17 pages, 4 figures. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052107 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108018
abstract: The quantum-mechanical state vector is not directly observable even though it is the fundamental variable that appears in Schrodinger's equation. In conventional time-dependent perturbation theory, the state vector must be calculated before the experimentally-observable expectation values of relevant operators can be computed. We discuss an alternative form of time-dependent perturbation theory in which the observable expectation values are calculated directly and expressed in the form of nested commutators. This result is consistent with the fact that the commutation relations determine the properties of a quantum system, while the commutators often have a form that simplifies the calculation and avoids canceling terms. The usefulness of this method is illustrated using several problems of interest in quantum optics and quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0108019
title: Improving the Renormalization Group approach to the quantum-mechanical double well potential
authors: D. Zappala'
comments: 10 pages, 2 EPS figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A290 (2001) 35-40
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108019
abstract: The gap between ground and first excited state of the quantum-mechanical double well is calculated using the Renormalization Group equations to the second order in the derivative expansion, obtained within a class of proper time regulators. Agreement with the exact results is obtained both in the strong and weak coupling regime.

id: quant-ph/0108020
title: Universal quantum computation using only projective measurement, quantum memory, and preparation of the 0 state
authors: Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A. 308 (2-3): 96-100 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108020
abstract: What resources are universal for quantum computation? In the standard model, a quantum computer consists of a sequence of unitary gates acting coherently on the qubits making up the computer. This paper shows that a very different model involving only projective measurements, quantum memory, and the ability to prepare the |0> state is also universal for quantum computation. In particular, no coherent unitary dynamics are involved in the computation.

id: quant-ph/0108021
title: A comparison of the entanglement measures negativity and concurrence
authors: Frank Verstraete, Koenraad Audenaert, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: 34, 10327 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108021
abstract: In this paper we investigate two different entanglement measures in the case of mixed states of two qubits. We prove that the negativity of a state can never exceed its concurrence and is always larger then $\sqrt{(1-C)^2+C^2}-(1-C)$ where $C$ is the concurrence of the state. Furthermore we derive an explicit expression for the states for which the upper or lower bound is satisfied. Finally we show that similar results hold if the relative entropy of entanglement and the entanglement of formation are compared.

id: quant-ph/0108022
title: Trajectories in the Context of the Quantum Newton's Law
authors: A. Bouda, T. Djama
comments: 17 pages, LateX, 6 eps figures, minor modifications, Title changed, to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys.Scripta 66 (2002) 97-104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108022
abstract: In this paper, we apply the one dimensional quantum law of motion, that we recently formulated in the context of the trajectory representation of quantum mechanics, to the constant potential, the linear potential and the harmonic oscillator. In the classically allowed regions, we show that to each classical trajectory there is a family of quantum trajectories which all pass through some points constituting nodes and belonging to the classical trajectory. We also discuss the generalization to any potential and give a new definition for de Broglie's wavelength in such a way as to link it with the length separating adjacent nodes. In particular, we show how quantum trajectories have as a limit when $\hbar \to 0$ the classical ones. In the classically forbidden regions, the nodal structure of the trajectories is lost and the particle velocity rapidly diverges.

id: quant-ph/0108023
title: Local Primitive Causality and the Common Cause Principle in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Miklos Redei, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 14 pages, Latex
journal: Found.Phys. 32 (2002) 335-355
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108023
abstract: If \{A(V)\} is a net of local von Neumann algebras satisfying standard axioms of algebraic relativistic quantum field theory and V_1 and V_2 are spacelike separated spacetime regions, then the system (A(V_1),A(V_2),\phi) is said to satisfy the Weak Reichenbach's Common Cause Principle iff for every pair of projections A \in A(V_1), B \in A(V_2) correlated in the normal state \phi there exists a projection C belonging to a von Neumann algebra associated with a spacetime region V contained in the union of the backward light cones of V_1 and V_2 and disjoint from both V_1 and V_2, a projection having the properties of a Reichenbachian common cause of the correlation between A and B. It is shown that if the net has the local primitive causality property then every local system (A(V_1),A(V_2),\phi) with a locally normal and locally faithful state \phi and open bounded V_1 and V_2 satisfies the Weak Reichenbach's Common Cause Principle.

id: quant-ph/0108024
title: On the Squeezed Number States and their Phase Space Representations
authors: L.Albano, D.F.Mundarain, J.Stephany
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: J.Opt.B Quant.Semiclass.Opt. 4 (2002) 352-357
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108024
abstract: We compute the photon number distribution, the Q distribution function and the wave functions in the momentum and position representation for a single mode squeezed number state using generating functions which allow to obtain any matrix element in the squeezed number state representation from the matrix elements in the squeezed coherent state representation. For highly squeezed number states we discuss the previously unnoted oscillations which appear in the Q function. We also note that these oscillations can be related to the photon-number distribution oscillations and to the momentum representation of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0108025
title: Quantum Measurement of a Single Spin using Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy
authors: G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, G. Chapline, S.A. Gurvitz, P.C. Hammel, D.V. Pelekhov, A. Suter, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 16 pages RevTeX including 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 4417
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108025
abstract: Single-spin detection is one of the important challenges facing the development of several new technologies, e.g. single-spin transistors and solid-state quantum computation. Magnetic resonance force microscopy with a cyclic adiabatic inversion, which utilizes a cantilever oscillations driven by a single spin, is a promising technique to solve this problem. We have studied the quantum dynamics of a single spin interacting with a quasiclassical cantilever. It was found that in a similar fashion to the Stern-Gerlach interferometer the quantum dynamics generates a quantum superposition of two quasiclassical trajectories of the cantilever which are related to the two spin projections on the direction of the effective magnetic field in the rotating reference frame. Our results show that quantum jumps will not prevent a single-spin measurement if the coupling between the cantilever vibrations and the spin is small in comparison with the amplitude of the radio-frequency external field.

id: quant-ph/0108026
title: Quantum coin flipping with arbitrary small bias is impossible
authors: Yuki Tokunaga
comments: Withdrawn. The proof doesn't work in general
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108026
abstract: Lo and Chau showed that an ideal quantum coin flipping protocol is impossible. The proof was simply derived from the impossibility proof of quantum bit commitment. However, the proof still leaves the possibility of a quantum coin flipping protocol with arbitrary small bias. In this paper, we show that a quantum coin flipping protocol with arbitrary small bias is impossible and show the lower bound of the bias of quantum coin flipping protocol.

id: quant-ph/0108027
title: Atomic scattering from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Ivo Haering, Jan M Rost
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108027
abstract: Elastic scattering probes directly the interaction potential. For weakly interacting condensates this potential is given by the condensate density. We investigate how the differential and total cross sections reflect the density. In particular, we have determined which signatures the Thomas Fermi approximation leaves in contrast to an exact solution for the condensate wave function within the Gross-Pitaevskii theory.

id: quant-ph/0108028
title: Simple trace criterion for classification of multilayers
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, J. J. Monzon, T. Yonte, J. F. Carinena
comments: To be published in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108028
abstract: The action of any lossless multilayer is described by a transfer matrix that can be factorized in terms of three basic matrices. We introduce a simple trace criterion that classifies multilayers in three classes with properties closely related with one (and only one) of these three basic matrices.

id: quant-ph/0108029
title: Distillability, Bell inequalities and multiparticle bound entanglement
authors: A. Acin
comments: 3 pages, REVTEX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 027901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108029
abstract: We study the relation between violation of Bell inequalities and distillability properties of quantum states. Recently, D\"ur has shown that there are some multiparticle bound entangled states, non-separable and non-distillable, that violate a Bell inequality. We prove that for all the states violating this inequality there exist at least one splitting of the parties into two groups such that some pure-state entanglement can be distilled, obtaining a connection between Bell inequalities and bipartite distillable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0108030
title: Macroscopic quantum fluctuations in noise-sustained optical patterns
authors: Roberta Zambrini, Stephen M. Barnett, Pere Colet, Maxi San Miguel
comments: 16 pages, submitted to Phys.Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 023813 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108030
abstract: We investigate quantum effects in pattern-formation for a degenerate optical parametric oscillator with walk-off. This device has a convective regime in which macroscopic patterns are both initiated and sustained by quantum noise. Familiar methods based linearization about a pseudo-classical field fail in this regime and new approaches are required. We employ a method in which the pump field is treated as a $c$-number variable but is driven by the $c$-number representation of the quantum sub-harmonic signal field. This allows us to include the effects of the fluctuations in the signal on the pump, which in turn act back on the signal. We find that the non-classical effects, in the form of squeezing, survive just above the threshold of the convective regime. Further above threshold the macroscopic quantum noise suppresses these effects.

id: quant-ph/0108031
title: Schwinger, Pegg and Barnett and a relationship between angular and Cartesian quantum descriptions
authors: M. Ruzzi
comments: 7 pages, revised version, to appear on J. Phys. A: Math and Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108031
abstract: From a development of an original idea due to Schwinger, it is shown that it is possible to recover, from the quantum description of a degree of freedom characterized by a finite number of states (\QTR{it}{i.e}., without classical counterpart) the usual canonical variables of position/momentum \QTR{it}{and} angle/angular momentum, relating, maybe surprisingly, the first as a limit of the later.

id: quant-ph/0108032
title: Chaos in the Quantum Double Well Oscillator: The Ehrenfest View Revisited
authors: J.K. Bhattacharjee, Analabha Roy
comments: Titlepage + 5 pages + Bibiliography,Submitted To Phys.Lett A
journal: Phys.Lett.A, 288/1-3, (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108032
abstract: We treat the double well quantum oscillator from the standpoint of the Ehrenfest equation but in a manner different from Pattanayak and Schieve. We show that for short times there can be chaotic motion due to quantum fluctuations, but over sufficiently long times the behaviour is normal.

id: quant-ph/0108033
title: Fermionic Linear Optics and Matchgates
authors: E. Knill
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108033
abstract: Fermionic linear optics is efficiently classically simulatable. Here it is shown that the set of states achievable with fermionic linear optics and particle measurements is the closure of a low dimensional Lie group. The weakness of fermionic linear optics and measurements can therefore be explained and contrasted with the strength of bosonic linear optics with particle measurements. An analysis of fermionic linear optics is used to show that the two-qubit matchgates and the simulatable matchcircuits introduced by Valiant generate a monoid of extended fermionic linear optics operators. A useful interpretation of efficient classical simulations such as this one is as a simulation of a model of non-deterministic quantum computation. Problem areas for future investigations are suggested.

id: quant-ph/0108034
title: Schmidt number of pure states in bipartite quantum systems as an algebraic-geometric invariant
authors: Hao Chen
comments: 8 pages, no figure, minor changes in v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108034
abstract: Our previous work about algebraic-geometric invariants of the mixed states are extended and a stronger separability criterion is given. We also show that the Schmidt number of pure states in bipartite quantum systems, a classical concept, is actually an algebraic-geometric invariant.

id: quant-ph/0108035
title: Coherent and compatible information: a basis to information analysis of quantum systems
authors: B.A.Grishanin, V.N.Zadkov
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the Procs of 17th Int'l Conf. on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics (ICONO-2001), June 26-July 1, 2001, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108035
abstract: Relevance of key quantum information measures for analysis of quantum systems is discussed. It is argued that possible ways of measuring quantum information are based on compatibility/incompatibility of the quantum states of a quantum system, resulting in the coherent information and introduced here the compatible information measures, respectively. A sketch of an information optimization of a quantum experimental setup is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0108036
title: Channel Estimation with Noisy Entanglement
authors: Thorsten C. Bschorr, Dietmar G. Fischer, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 6 pages, including 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 292, 15 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108036
abstract: We analyze the Pauli-channel estimation with mixed nonseparable states. It turns out that within a specific range entanglement can serve as a nonclassical resource. However, this range is rather small, that is entanglement is not very robust for this application. We further show that Werner states yield the best result of all Bell diagonal states with the same amount of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0108037
title: Estimation of quantum channels with finite resources
authors: Markus A. Cirone, Aldo Delgado, Dietmar G. Fischer, Matthias Freyberger, Holger Mack, Michael Mussinger
comments: 15 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108037
abstract: We investigate the problem of determining the parameters that describe a quantum channel. It is assumed that the users of the channel have at best only partial knowledge of it and make use of a finite amount of resources to estimate it. We discuss simple protocols for the estimation of the parameters of several classes of channels that are studied in the current literature. We define two different quantitative measures of the quality of the estimation schemes, one based on the standard deviation, the other one on the fidelity. The possibility of protocols that employ entangled particles is also considered. It turns out that the use of entangled particles as a new kind of nonclassical resource enhances the estimation quality of some classes of quantum channel. Further, the investigated methods allow us to extend them to higher dimensional quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0108038
title: Comments on some recently proposed experiments that should distinguish Bohmian mechanics from quantum mechanics
authors: W. Struyve, W. De Baere
comments: 10 pages LaTex, to be published in ``Proceedings of the Vaxjo conference (16-21 june 2001)''
journal: "Quantum theory: Reconsideration of Foundations", Vaxjo University Press, Vaxjo, 355 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108038
abstract: Recently Ghose (quant-ph/0001024,quant-ph/0003037,quant-ph/0103126) and Golshani and Akhavan (quant-ph/0009040,quant-ph/0103100,quant-ph/0103101) claimed to have found experiments that should be able to distinguish between Standard Quantum Mechanics and Bohmian Mechanics. It is our aim to show that the claims made by Ghose, Golshani and Akhavan are unfounded.

id: quant-ph/0108039
title: Mindless Sensationalism: A Quantum Framework for Consciousness
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 36 pages, no figures, LaTeX, invited contribution to be published in Consciousness: New Philosophical Essays, edited by Quentin Smith and Alexandar Jokic (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002). (This is mainly a philosophical account of the ideas of Sensible Quantum Mechanics in quant-ph/9506010 and elsewhere.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108039
abstract: The ideas of Sensible Quantum Mechanics are expressed in lay terms for philosophers of consciousness and others. A framework is proposed and explained for the `psycho-physical-parallelism' between conscious experiences and the mathematical structures of quantum physics (e.g., a set of quantum operators obeying some algebra, and a quantum state giving the expectation value of each operator). In particular, it is proposed that each set of possible conscious experiences has a measure given by the expectation value of a corresponding operator (a positive-operator-valued measure). Then one has a generalization of the Weak Anthropic Principle named the Conditional Aesthemic Principle: given that we are conscious beings, our conscious experiences are likely to be typical experiences in the set of all conscious experiences with its measure.

id: quant-ph/0108040
title: Evolution of an Atom Impeded by Measurement: The Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Chr. Wunderlich, Chr. Balzer, P.E. Toschek
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Presented at the 3rd Workshop on Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics, Gargagno, Italy, September 17-23, 2000
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 56a, 160-164 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108040
abstract: A quantum system being observed evolves more slowly. This `'quantum Zeno effect'' is reviewed with respect to a previous attempt of demonstration, and to subsequent criticism of the significance of the findings. A recent experiment on an {\it individual} cold trapped ion has been capable of revealing the micro-state of this quantum system, such that the effect of measurement is indeed discriminated from dephasing of the quantum state by either the meter or the environment.

id: quant-ph/0108041
title: Path Integration for the Plane Pendulum with Finite Amplitude
authors: H. Ahmedov, I. H. Duru
comments: Latex, 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108041
abstract: Exact path integration for the one dimensional potential $V=b^2\cos 2q$ which describes the finite amplitude pendulum is presented.

id: quant-ph/0108042
title: Coherent states for the hydrogen atom: discrete and continuous spectra
authors: Simeon Pol'shin
comments: 15 pages, LATEX, minor sign corrections, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys.A 34 (2001) 11083
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108042
abstract: We construct the systems of generalised coherent states for the discrete and continuous spectra of the hydrogen atom. These systems are expressed in elementary functions and are invariant under the $SO(3, 2)$ (discrete spectrum) and $SO(4, 1)$ (continuous spectrum) subgroups of the dynamical symmetry group $SO(4, 2)$ of the hydrogen atom. Both systems of coherent states are particular cases of the kernel of integral operator which interwines irreducible representations of the $SO(4, 2)$ group.

id: quant-ph/0108043
title: The Lorentz singular value decomposition and its applications to pure states of 3 qubits
authors: Frank Verstraete, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A (\bf 65), 032308 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108043
abstract: All mixed states of two qubits can be brought into normal form by the action of SLOCC operations of the kind $\rho'=(A\otimes B)\rho(A\otimes B)^\dagger$. These normal forms can be obtained by considering a Lorentz singular value decomposition on a real parameterization of the density matrix. We show that the Lorentz singular values are variationally defined and give rise to entanglement monotones, with as a special case the concurrence. Next a necessary and sufficient criterion is conjectured for a mixed state to be convertible into another specific one with a non-zero probability. Finally the formalism of the Lorentz singular value decomposition is applied to tripartite pure states of qubits. New proofs are given for the existence of the GHZ- and W-class of states, and a rigorous proof for the optimal distillation of a GHZ-state is derived.

id: quant-ph/0108044
title: Entangling macroscopic oscillators exploiting radiation pressure
authors: Stefano Mancini, Vittorio Giovannetti, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, new separability criterion added, new figure 2, authors list changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 120401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108044
abstract: It is shown that radiation pressure can be profitably used to entangle {\it macroscopic} oscillators like movable mirrors, using present technology. We prove a new sufficient criterion for entanglement and show that the achievable entanglement is robust against thermal noise. Its signature can be revealed using common optomechanical readout apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0108045
title: Imbedding nonlocality in a relativistic chronology
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages Latex, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108045
abstract: An alternative description imbedding nonlocality in a relativistic chronology is proposed. It is argued that vindication of Quantum Mechanics in forthcoming experiments with moving beam-splitters would mean that there is no real time ordering behind the nonlocal correlations.

id: quant-ph/0108046
title: Phase Coherence and Control of Stored Photonic Information
authors: A. Mair, J. Hager, D.F. Phillips, R.L. Walsworth, M.D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108046
abstract: We report the demonstration of phase coherence and control for the recently developed "light storage" technique. Specifically, we use a pulsed magnetic field to vary the phase of atomic spin excitations which result from the deceleration and storing of a light pulse in warm Rb vapor. We then convert the spin excitations back into light and detect the resultant phase shift in an optical interferometric measurement. The coherent storage of photon states in matter is essential for the practical realization of many basic concepts in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0108047
title: Novel Bell's inequalities for entangled K0 anti-K0 pairs
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino
comments: 4 RevTeX pages; corrected typos; short comments added; accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 040403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108047
abstract: We derive new Bell's inequalities for entangled K0 anti-K0 pairs. This requires 1) mutually exclusive setups allowing either K0 vs anti-K0 or KS vs KL detection and 2) the use of kaon regenerators. The inequalities turn out to be significantly violated by Quantum Mechanics, resulting in interesting tests of Local Realism at phi-factories and p anti-p machines.

id: quant-ph/0108048
title: Robustness of adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Edward Farhi, John Preskill
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 012322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108048
abstract: We study the fault tolerance of quantum computation by adiabatic evolution, a quantum algorithm for solving various combinatorial search problems. We describe an inherent robustness of adiabatic computation against two kinds of errors, unitary control errors and decoherence, and we study this robustness using numerical simulations of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0108049
title: Simple Scheme for Efficient Linear Optics Quantum Gates
authors: T.C.Ralph, A.G.White, W.J.Munro, G.J.Milburn
comments: Problems with PDF figures corrected
journal: Physical Review A 65, 012314(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108049
abstract: We describe the construction of a conditional quantum control-not (CNOT) gate from linear optical elements following the program of Knill, Laflamme and Milburn [Nature {\bf 409}, 46 (2001)]. We show that the basic operation of this gate can be tested using current technology. We then simplify the scheme significantly.

id: quant-ph/0108050
title: Existence of the Wigner function with correct marginal distributions along tilted lines on a lattice
authors: Minoru Horibe, Akiyoshi Takami, Takaaki Hashimoto, Akihisa Hayashi
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. A 65(2002)032105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108050
abstract: In order to determine the Wigner function uniquely, we introduce a new condition which ensures that the Wigner function has correct marginal distributions along tilted lines. For a system in $N$ dimensional Hilbert space, whose "phase space" is a lattice with $N^2$ sites, we get different results depending on whether $N$ is odd or even. Under the new condition, the Wigner function is determined if $N$ is an odd number, but it does not exist if $N$ is even.

id: quant-ph/0108051
title: Conditional two mode squeezed vacuum teleportation
authors: P. T. Cochrane, T. C. Ralph, G. J. Milburn
comments: 18 pages, RevTeX4, 10 figures postscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108051
abstract: We show, by making conditional measurements on the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) squeezed vacuum, that one can improve the efficacy of teleportation for both the position difference, momentum sum and number difference, phase sum continuous variable teleportation protocols. We investigate the relative abilities of the standard and conditional EPR states, and show that by conditioning we can improve the fidelity of teleportation of coherent states from below to above the $\bar{F} = 2/3$ boundary.

id: quant-ph/0108052
title: Quantum algorithm for measuring the energy of n qubits with unknown pair-interactions
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: 6 pages, revtex
journal: Quant. Inf. & Comp. 2 (3):198-207, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108052
abstract: The well-known algorithm for quantum phase estimation requires that the considered unitary is available as a conditional transformation depending on the quantum state of an ancilla register. We present an algorithm converting an unknown n-qubit pair-interaction Hamiltonian into a conditional one such that standard phase estimation can be applied to measure the energy. Our essential assumption is that the considered system can be brought into interaction with a quantum computer. For large n the algorithm could still be applicable for estimating the density of energy states and might therefore be useful for finding energy gaps in solid states.

id: quant-ph/0108053
title: Quantum algorithm for finding periodicities in the spectrum of a black-box Hamiltonian or unitary transformation
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 3 pages, revtex
journal: Quant. Inf. & Comp. 2 (3):192-197, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108053
abstract: Estimating the eigenvalues of a unitary transformation U by standard phase estimation requires the implementation of controlled-U-gates which are not available if U is only given as a black box. We show that a simple trick allows to measure eigenvalues of U\otimes U^\dagger even in this case. Running the algorithm several times allows therefore to estimate the autocorrelation function of the density of eigenstates of U. This can be applied to find periodicities in the energy spectrum of a quantum system with unknown Hamiltonian if it can be coupled to a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0108054
title: One-dimensional quantum chaos: Explicitly solvable cases
authors: Yu. Dabaghian, R. V. Jensen, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 9 pages and 4 figures
journal: Pis'ma v ZhETF 74, 258-262 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108054
abstract: We present quantum graphs with remarkably regular spectral characteristics. We call them {\it regular quantum graphs}. Although regular quantum graphs are strongly chaotic in the classical limit, their quantum spectra are explicitly solvable in terms of periodic orbits. We present analytical solutions for the spectrum of regular quantum graphs in the form of explicit and exact periodic orbit expansions for each individual energy level.

id: quant-ph/0108055
title: A Canonical Approach to the Quantization of the Damped Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Rabin Banerjee, Pradip Mukherjee
comments: Revtex, 6 pages, considerably expanded with modified title and refs.; To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys.A35:5591-5598,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108055
abstract: We provide a new canonical approach for studying the quantum mechanical damped harmonic oscillator based on the doubling of degrees of freedom approach. Explicit expressions for Lagrangians of the elementary modes of the problem, characterising both forward and backward time propagations are given. A Hamiltonian analysis, showing the equivalence with the Lagrangian approach, is also done. Based on this Hamiltonian analysis, the quantization of the model is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0108056
title: A simple gate for linear optics quantum computing
authors: Terry Rudolph, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 1 page (incl 1 figure)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108056
abstract: We describe a simple scheme for implementing the non-linear sign gate of Knill, Laflamme and Milburn (Nature, {\bf 409}, 46-52, Jan. 4 (2001)) which forms the basis of an experiment underway at the University of Vienna.

id: quant-ph/0108057
title: Is "entanglement" always entangled?
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 5 p. LaTeX + 3 eps & 1 ps fig; v2:typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108057
abstract: Entanglement, including ``quantum entanglement,'' is a consequence of correlation between objects. When the objects are subunits of pairs which in turn are members of an ensemble described by a wave function, a correlation among the subunits induces the mysterious properties of ``cat-states.'' However, correlation between subsystems can be present from purely non-quantum sources, thereby entailing no unfathomable behavior. Such entanglement arises whenever the so-called ``qubit space'' is not afflicted with Heisenberg Uncertainty. It turns out that all optical experimental realizations of EPR's \emph{Gedanken} experiment in fact do not suffer Heisenberg Uncertainty. Examples will be analyzed and non-quantum models for some of these described. The consequences for experiments that were to test EPR's contention in the form of Bell's Theorem are drawn: \emph{valid tests of EPR's hypothesis have yet to be done.}

id: quant-ph/0108058
title: On singularities of the mixed state phase
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: 4 pages Latex, 1 postscript figure; submitted to Physical Review Letters 12 Dec 2000; Revised on 13 August 2001
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) p.268901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108058
abstract: A recent proposal of Sjoqvist et.al. to extend Pancharatnam's criterion for phase difference between two different pure states to the case of mixed states in quantum mechanics is analyzed and the existence of phase singularities in the parameter space of an interference experiment with particles in mixed states pointed out. In the vicinity of such singular points the phase changes sharply and precisely at these points it becomes undefined. A closed circuit in the parameter space around such points results in a measurable phase shift equal to 2n\pi, where n is an integer. Such effects have earlier been observed in interference experiments with pure polarization states of light, a system isomorphic to the spin-1/2 system in quantum mechanics. Implications of phase singularities for the interpretation of experiments with partially polarized and unpolarized neutrons are discussed. New kinds of topological phases involving variables representing decoherence (depolarization) of pure states are predicted and experiments to verify them suggested.

id: quant-ph/0108059
title: The uniqueness question in the multidimensional moment problem with applications to phase space observables
authors: Anatolij Dvurecenskij, Pekka Lahti, Kari Ylinen
comments: 13 pages, submitted to Reports on Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108059
abstract: The theory of holomorphic functions of several complex variables is applied in proving a multidimensional variant of a theorem involving an exponential boundedness criterion for the classical moment problem. A theorem of Petersen concerning the relation between the multidimensional and one-dimensional moment problems is extended for half-lines and compact subsets of the real line. These results are used to solve the moment problem for the quantum phase space observables generated by the number states.

id: quant-ph/0108060
title: Entanglement purification with noisy apparatus can be used to factor out an eavesdropper
authors: Hans Aschauer, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108060
abstract: We give a proof that entanglement purification, even with noisy apparatus, is sufficient to disentangle an eavesdropper (Eve) from the communication channel. Our proof applies to all possible attacks (individual and coherent). Due to the quantum nature of the entanglement purification protocol, it is also possible to use the obtained quantum channel for secure transmission of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0108061
title: Laser phase modulation approaches towards ensemble quantum computing
authors: Debabrata Goswami
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, PRL (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108061
abstract: Selective control of decoherence is demonstrated for a multilevel system by generalizing the instantaneous phase of any chirped pulse as individual terms of a Taylor series expansion. In the case of a simple two-level system, all odd terms in the series lead to population inversion while the even terms lead to self-induced transparency. These results also hold for multiphoton transitions that do not have any lower-order photon resonance or any intermediate virtual state dynamics within the laser pulse-width. Such results form the basis of a robustly implementable CNOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0108062
title: Universal quantum gates
authors: Jean-Luc Brylinski, Ranee Brylinski
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108062
abstract: In this paper we study universality for quantum gates acting on qudits.Qudits are states in a Hilbert space of dimension d where d is at least two. We determine which 2-qudit gates V have the properties (i) the collection of all 1-qudit gates together with V produces all n-qudit gates up to arbitrary precision, or (ii) the collection of all 1-qudit gates together with V produces all n-qudit gates exactly. We show that (i) and (ii) are equivalent conditions on V, and they hold if and only if V is not a primitive gate. Here we say V is primitive if it transforms any decomposable tensor into a decomposable tensor. We discuss some applications and also relations with work of other authors.

id: quant-ph/0108063
title: Polarization Entanglement Purification using Spatial Entanglement
authors: Christoph Simon, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 257901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108063
abstract: Parametric down-conversion can produce photons that are entangled both in polarization and in space. Here we show how the spatial entanglement can be used to purify the polarization entanglement using only linear optical elements. Spatial entanglement as an additional resource leads to a substantial improvement in entanglement output compared to a previous scheme. Interestingly, in the present context the thermal character of down-conversion sources can be turned into an advantage. Our scheme is realizable with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0108064
title: CP^n, or, entanglement illustrated
authors: I. Bengtsson, J. Braennlund, K. Zyczkowski
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 4675-4696
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108064
abstract: We show that many topological and geometrical properties of complex projective space can be understood just by looking at a suitably constructed picture. The idea is to view CP^n as a set of flat tori parametrized by the positive octant of a round sphere. We pay particular attention to submanifolds of constant entanglement in CP^3 and give a few new results concerning them.

id: quant-ph/0108065
title: Optical quantum computer based on RDS crystal
authors: Z. S. Sazonova, Ranjit Singh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108065
abstract: We have proposed the construction of optical quantum computer (OQC) on regular domain structure (RDS) crystal. By using RDS crystal, we can perform all the logical operations on one RDS crystal. Moreover, RDS crystals are parctically independent to the heating effects i.e., can perform logic operations constantly without cooling the RDS crystal. Also, we have proposed the quantum parallelsim i.e., parallel coherent laser beams are injected at the input of the RDS crystals. By using the RDS crystal we can perform the reduce the requirements of the linear and nonlinear optical components.

id: quant-ph/0108066
title: Scalable programmable quantum gates and a new aspect of the additivity problem for the classical capacity of quantum channels
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 9 pages, revtex4. Added a few references and updated others. Extended discussion a bit
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43(9):4341--4352, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108066
abstract: We consider two apparently separated problems: in the first part of the paper we study the concept of a scalable (approximate) programmable quantum gate (SPQG). These are special (approximate) programmable quantum gates, with nice properties that could have implications on the theory of universal computation. Unfortunately, as we prove, such objects do not exist in the domain of usual quantum theory. In the second part the problem of noisy dense coding (and generalizations) is addressed. We observe that the additivity problem for the classical capacity obtained is of apparently greater generality than for the usual quantum channel (completely positive maps): i.e., the latter occurs as a special case of the former, but, as we shall argue with the help of the non-existence result of the first part, the former cannot be reduced to an instance of the latter. We conclude by suggesting that the additivity problem for the classical capacity of quantum channels, as posed until now, may conceptually not be in its appropriate generality.

id: quant-ph/0108067
title: Computational model underlying the one-way quantum computer
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Hans Briegel
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures. Extended version. Some results generalized. Discussion of results added
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 6, 433 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108067
abstract: In this paper we present the computational model underlying the one-way quantum computer which we introduced recently [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5188 (2001)]. The one-way quantum computer has the property that any quantum logic network can be simulated on it. Conversely, not all ways of quantum information processing that are possible with the one-way quantum computer can be understood properly in network model terms. We show that the logical depth is, for certain algorithms, lower than has so far been known for networks. For example, every quantum circuit in the Clifford group can be performed on the one-way quantum computer in a single step.

id: quant-ph/0108068
title: Experimental Implementation of Hogg's Algorithm on a Three-Quantum-bit NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Xinhua Peng, Xiwen Zhu, Ximing Fang, Mang Feng, Maili Liu, Kelin Gao
comments: Revtex, 14 pages and 1 table, 4 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108068
abstract: Using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques with three-qubit sample, we have experimentally implemented the highly structured algorithm for the 1-SAT problem proposed by Hogg. A simplified temporal averaging procedure was employed to the three-qubit spin pseudo-pure state. The algorithm was completed with only a single evaluation of structure of the problem and the solutions were found with probability 100%, which outperform both unstructured quantum and the best classical search algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0108069
title: Quantum anti-centrifugal force
authors: M. A. Cirone, K. Rzazewski, W. P. Schleich, F. Straub, J. A. Wheeler
comments: 8 pages, including three eps figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A. Figures substituted
journal: Phys.Rev.A65:022101,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108069
abstract: In a two-dimensional world a free quantum particle of vanishing angular momentum experiences an attractive force. This force originates from a modification of the classical centrifugal force due to the wave nature of the particle. For positive energies the quantum anti-centrifugal force manifests itself in a bunching of the nodes of the energy wave functions towards the origin. For negative energies this force is sufficient to create a bound state in a two-dimensional delta function potential. In a counter-intuitive way the attractive force pushes the particle away from the location of the delta function potential. As a consequence, the particle is localized in a band-shaped domain around the origin

id: quant-ph/0108070
title: When Worlds Collide: Quantum Probability From Observer Selection?
authors: Robin D. Hanson
comments: This is final published version
journal: Foundations of Physics 33(7), July 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108070
abstract: In Everett's many worlds interpretation, quantum measurements are considered to be decoherence events. If so, then inexact decoherence may allow large worlds to mangle the memory of observers in small worlds, creating a cutoff in observable world size. Smaller world are mangled and so not observed. If this cutoff is much closer to the median measure size than to the median world size, the distribution of outcomes seen in unmangled worlds follows the Born rule. Thus deviations from exact decoherence can allow the Born rule to be derived via world counting, with a finite number of worlds and no new fundamental physics.

id: quant-ph/0108071
title: Quantum mechanics and the continuum problem (with referee reports)
authors: O. Yaremchuk
comments: 14 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108071
abstract: It is shown that Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics can be reproduced as a description of the set of intermediate cardinality. Properties of the set follow directly from the independence of the continuum hypothesis. Six referee reports of Physical Review Letters, Europhysics Letters, and Journal of Physics A are enclosed.

id: quant-ph/0108072
title: The Origin of the Planck's Constant
authors: H. Y. Cui
comments: LaTex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108072
abstract: In this paper, we discuss an equation which does not contain the Planck's constant, but it will turn out the Planck's constant when we apply the equation to the problems of particle diffraction.

id: quant-ph/0108073
title: Quantum Information in Space and Time
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108073
abstract: Many important results in modern quantum information theory have been obtained for an idealized situation when the spacetime dependence of quantum phenomena is neglected. However the transmission and processing of (quantum) information is a physical process in spacetime. Therefore such basic notions in quantum information theory as the notions of composite systems, entangled states and the channel should be formulated in space and time. We emphasize the importance of the investigation of quantum information in space and time. Entangled states in space and time are considered. A modification of Bell`s equation which includes the spacetime variables is suggested. A general relation between quantum theory and theory of classical stochastic processes is proposed. It expresses the condition of local realism in the form of a {\it noncommutative spectral theorem}. Applications of this relation to the security of quantum key distribution in quantum cryptography are considered.

id: quant-ph/0108074
title: Deduction, Ordering, and Operations in Quantum Logic
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 19 pages; Web page: this http URL
journal: Found. Phys. 32 (2002) 357-378
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108074
abstract: We show that in quantum logic of closed subspaces of Hilbert space one cannot substitute quantum operations for classical (standard Hilbert space) ones and treat them as primitive operations. We consider two possible ways of such a substitution and arrive at operation algebras that are not lattices what proves the claim. We devise algorithms and programs which write down any two-variable expression in an orthomodular lattice by means of classical and quantum operations in an identical form. Our results show that lattice structure and classical operations uniquely determine quantum logic underlying Hilbert space. As a consequence of our result, recent proposals for a deduction theorem with quantum operations in an orthomodular lattice as well as a substitution of quantum operations for the usual standard Hilbert space ones in quantum logic prove to be misleading. Quantum computer quantum logic is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0108075
title: Evolutionarily Stable Strategies in Quantum Hawk-Dove Game
authors: Ahmad Nawaz, A.H.Toor
comments: Revised version. LaTex, 11 pages, no figure. Corresponding author's email: ahmad@ele.qau.edu.pk
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 27, No. 5 (2010) 050303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108075
abstract: We quantized the Hawk-Dove game by using the most general form of a pure initial state to investigate the existence of pure and mixed Evolutionarily Stable Strategies (ESS). An example is considered to draw a comparison between classical and quantum version of the game. Our choice of most general initial quantum state enables us to make the game symmetric or asymmetric. We show that for a particular set of game parameters where there exist only mixed ESS in the classical version of the game, however, quantization allows even a pure strategy to be an ESS for symmetric game in addition to ixed ESS. On the other hand only pure strategy ESS can exist for asymmetric quantum version of the Hawk-Dove game.

id: quant-ph/0108076
title: Optimal simulation of nonlocal Hamiltonians using local operations and classical communication
authors: G. Vidal, J. I. Cirac
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, revtex, major changes in presentation, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022315 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108076
abstract: Consider a set of $N$ systems and an arbitrary interaction Hamiltonian $H$ that couples them. We investigate the use of local operations and classical communication (LOCC), together with the Hamiltonian $H$, to simulate a unitary evolution of the $N$ systems according to some other Hamiltonian $H'$. First, we show that the most general simulation using $H$ and LOCC can be also achieved, with the same time efficiency, by just interspersing the evolution of $H$ with local unitary manipulations of each system and a corresponding local ancilla (in a so-called LU+anc protocol). Thus, the ability to make local measurements and to communicate classical information does not help in non--local Hamiltonian simulation. Second, we show that both for the case of two $d$-level systems ($d>2$), or for that of a setting with more than two systems ($N>2$), LU+anc protocols are more powerful than LU protocols. Therefore local ancillas are a useful resource for non--local Hamiltonian simulation. Third, we use results of majorization theory to explicitly solve the problem of optimal simulation of two-qubit Hamiltonians using LU (equivalently, LU+anc, LO or LOCC).

id: quant-ph/0108077
title: Catalysis in non--local quantum operations
authors: G. Vidal, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 (2002) 167903
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108077
abstract: We show how entanglement can be used, without being consumed, to accomplish unitary operations that could not be performed with out it. When applied to infinitesimal transformations our method makes equivalent, in the sense of Hamiltonian simulation, a whole class of otherwise inequivalent two-qubit interactions. The new catalysis effect also implies the asymptotic equivalence of all such interactions.

id: quant-ph/0108078
title: Geometric phases of mesoscopic spin in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: I. Fuentes-Guridi, J. Pachos, S. Bose, V. Vedral, S. Choi
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022102 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108078
abstract: We propose a possible scheme for generating spin-J geometric phases using a coupled two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). First we show how to observe the standard Berry phase using Raman coupling between two hyperfine states of the BEC. We find that the presence of intrinsic interatomic collisions creates degeneracy in energy that allows implementation of the non-Abelian geometric phases as well. The evolutions produced can be used to produce interference between different atomic species with high numbers of atoms or to fine control the difference in atoms between the two species. Finally, we show that errors in the standard Berry phase due to elastic collisions may be corrected by controlling inelastic collisions between atoms.

id: quant-ph/0108079
title: Quantum Theory of Observers
authors: Jose L Balduz Jr
comments: 43 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108079
abstract: This is an attempt to create a consistent and non-trivial extension of quantum theory, describing in detail the quantum measurement process. A tentative but concrete model is presented, based on the concept of multiple observer/participators, represented by separate state vectors. The evolution is deterministic, and in the chaotic regime implies approximate adherence to the Born rule for probabilities. The model is applied in a number of contexts: simple detectors, multi-state selectors, and intermittent systems. The results are consistent with phenomenology. We also consider more speculative applications, including specific spin and position `observables.' Finally the outlook for the model is discussed, and its relation to other work.

id: quant-ph/0108080
title: Quantum-optical states in finite-dimensional Hilbert space. I. General formalism
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Wieslaw Leonski, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 38 pages, 10 figures, the final version
journal: "Modern Nonlinear Optics", ed. M. W. Evans, Advances in Chemical Physics, vol. 119 (I) (Wiley, New York, 2001) pp. 155-193
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108080
abstract: The interest in quantum-optical states confined in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces has recently been stimulated by the progress in quantum computing, quantum-optical state preparation, and measurement techniques, in particular, by the development of the discrete quantum-state tomography. In the first part of our review we present two essentially different approaches to define harmonic oscillator states in the finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. One of them is related to the truncation scheme of Pegg, Phillips and Barnett [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 1604 (1998)] -- the so-called quantum scissors device. The second method corresponds to the truncation scheme of Leo\'nski and Tana\'s [Phys. Rev. A 49, R20 (1994)]. We propose some new definitions of the states related to these truncation schemes and find their explicit forms in the Fock representation. We discuss finite-dimensional generalizations of coherent states, phase coherent states, displaced number states, Schr\"odinger cats, and squeezed vacuum. We show some intriguing properties of the states with the help of the discrete Wigner function.

id: quant-ph/0108081
title: The Moyal-Lie Theory of Phase Space Quantum Mechanics
authors: T. Hakioglu, A. Dragt
comments: 15 pages, no figures, to appear in J. Phys. A (2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108081
abstract: A Lie algebraic approach to the unitary transformations in Weyl quantization is discussed. This approach, being formally equivalent to the $\star$-quantization, is an extension of the classical Poisson-Lie formalism which can be used as an efficient tool in the quantum phase space transformation theory.

id: quant-ph/0108082
title: Measuring irreversible dynamics of a quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Enrique Solano, Berthold-Georg Englert, Herbert Walther
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; submitted to Physical Review A as a Rapid Communication
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 65, 2002, art. no. 040102(R) (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108082
abstract: We show that the unitary evolution of a harmonic oscillator coupled to a two-level system can be undone by a suitable manipulation of the two-level system -- more specifically: by a quasi-instantaneous phase change. This enables us to isolate the dissipative evolution to which the oscillator may be exposed in addition. With this method we study the decoherence of a photon mode in cavity QED, and that of the quantized harmonic motion of trapped ions. We comment on the relation to spin echoes and multi-path interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0108083
title: Huygens' principle, the free Schrodinger particle and the quantum anti-centrifugal force
authors: M. A. Cirone, J. P. Dahl, M. Fedorov, D. Greenberger, W. P. Schleich
comments: 11 pages, submitted to J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108083
abstract: Huygens' principle following from the d'Alembert wave equation is not valid in two-dimensional space. A Schrodinger particle of vanishing angular momentum moving freely in two dimensions experiences an attractive force - the quantum anti-centrifugal force - towards its center. We connect these two phenomena by comparing and contrasting the radial propagators of the d'Alembert wave equation and of a free non-relativistic quantum mechanical particle in two and three dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0108084
title: Violating Bell's inequality beyond Cirel'son's bound
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 (2002) 060403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108084
abstract: Cirel'son inequality states that the absolute value of the combination of quantum correlations appearing in the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is bound by $2 \sqrt 2$. It is shown that the correlations of two qubits belonging to a three-qubit system can violate the CHSH inequality beyond $2 \sqrt 2$. Such a violation is not in conflict with Cirel'son's inequality because it is based on postselected systems. The maximum allowed violation of the CHSH inequality, 4, can be achieved using a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state.

id: quant-ph/0108085
title: Some Comments On Bound State Eigenvalues of PT-Symmetric Potentials
authors: S. Banerjee, R.Roychoudhury
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108085
abstract: Using purely physical arguments it is claimed that for ID Schrodinger operators with complex PT- Symmatric potentials having a purely real attractive potential well and a purely imaginary repulsive part,bound state eigenvalues will be discrete and real.This has been illustrated with several potentials possessing similar properties.

id: quant-ph/0108086
title: A General Phase Matching Condition for Quantum Searching Algorithm
authors: Che-Ming Li, Chi-Chuan Hwang, Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Kuo-Shong Wang
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Volume 65, 034305 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108086
abstract: A general consideration on the phase rotations in quantum searching algorithm is taken in this work. As four phase rotations on the initial state, the marked states, and the states orthogonal to them are taken account, we deduce a phase matching condition for a successful search. The optimal options for these phase are obtained consequently.

id: quant-ph/0108087
title: 'Photosynthetic' Quantum Computers?
authors: Scott M. Hitchcock
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108087
abstract: Do quantum computers already exist in Nature? It is proposed that they do. Photosynthesis is one example in which a 'quantum computer' component may play a role in the 'classical' world of complex biological systems. A 'translation' of the standard metabolic description of the 'front-end' light harvesting complex in photosynthesis into the language of quantum computers is presented. Biological systems represent an untapped resource for thinking about the design and operation of hybrid quantum-classical computers and expanding our current conceptions of what defines a 'quantum computer' in Nature.

id: quant-ph/0108088
title: Exploring Hilbert Space: accurate characterisation of quantum information
authors: A. G. White, D. F. V. James, W. J. Munro, P. G. Kwiat
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 65, 012301 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108088
abstract: We report the creation of a wide range of quantum states with controllable degrees of entanglement and entropy using an optical two-qubit source based on spontaneous parametric downconversion. The states are characterised using measures of entanglement and entropy determined from tomographically determined density matrices. The Tangle-Entropy plane is introduced as a graphical representation of these states, and the theoretic upper bound for the maximum amount of entanglement possible for a given entropy is presented. Such a combination of general quantum state creation and accurate characterisation is an essential prerequisite for quantum device development.

id: quant-ph/0108089
title: Explicit Euler method for solving time dependent Schr?dinger equation
authors: Ioan Sturzu
comments: 1 page. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 054101 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108089
abstract: Using an explicit Euler substitution it was obtained a system of differential equations, which can be used to find the solution of time-dependent 1-dimentional Schr\H{o}dinger equation for a general form of the time-dependent potential.

id: quant-ph/0108090
title: Perfect cloning of harmonic oscillator coherent states is possible
authors: N.D. Hari Dass, Pradeep Ganesh
comments: 4 pages(Two column), Revtex. Many typos in earlier version corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108090
abstract: We have withdrawn this paper due to a fatal flaw in eqn(38).

id: quant-ph/0108091
title: Quantum Cooperative Games
authors: A. Iqbal, A.H. Toor
comments: Revised in the light of referee's comments. Submitted to Physics Letters A. LaTex, 9 pages, 1 figure. Parts of this paper are rewritten
journal: Physics Letters, A 293/3-4 (2002), pp 103-108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108091
abstract: We study two forms of a symmetric cooperative game played by three players, one classical and other quantum. In its classical form making a coalition gives advantage to players and they are motivated to do so. However in its quantum form the advantage is lost and players are left with no motivation to make a coalition.

id: quant-ph/0108092
title: The 18-fold way
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: To be published in Foundations of Physics. This is a reply to an article (quant-ph/0105097) by Ulrich Mohrhoff
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108092
abstract: I shall consider each of the 18 claims made by Mohrhoff, and explain, in each case, why I take the path opposite to the one by which he seeks to remove the effects of our thoughts on the activities of our quantum mechanically described brains.

id: quant-ph/0108093
title: Quantum entanglement without eigenvalue spectra
authors: Hao Chen
comments: 23 pages, no figure, multipartite case was included in v8
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108093
abstract: From the consideration of measuring bipartite mixed states by separable pure states, we introduce algebraic sets in complex projective spaces for bipartite mixed states as the degenerating locus of the measurement. These algebraic sets are independent of the eigenvalues and only measure the "position" of eigenvectors of bipartite mixed states. They are nonlocal invariants ie., remaining invariant after local unitary transformations. The algebraic sets have to be the sum of the linear subspaces if the mixed states are separable, and thus we give a "eigenvalue-free" criterion of separability.Based on our criterion, examples are given to illustrate that entangled mixed states which are invariant under partial transposition or fufill entropy and disorder criterion of separability can be constructed systematically.We reveal that a large part of quantum entanglement is independent of eigenvalue spectra and develop a method to measure this part of quantum enatnglement.The results are extended to multipartite case.

id: quant-ph/0108094
title: From Quantum Action to Quantum Chaos
authors: H. Jirari, H. Kr?ger, G. Melkonyan, X.Q. Luo, K.J.M. Moriarty
comments: H. Kr\"{o}ger invited, Frontiers Fund. Phys. IV, Hyderabad (2000). Text (LaTeX), 4 Figs. (ps)
journal: Frontiers of Fundamental Physics 4, B.G. Sidharth, M.V. Altaisky (eds.), Kluwer/Plenum Publ., New York (2001), p.129.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108094
abstract: We have recently suggested a quantum action, which has the form of a classical action and takes into account quantum effects via renormalized action parameters. Here we apply it to quantum chaos. We study a system in 2-D with weak anharmonic coupling ($V_{coupl} \propto x^{2}y^{2}$) being classically chaotic. We construct the quantum action at finite temperature. We compute Poincar\'e sections of the quantum action at that temperature and compare it with those of the classical action. We observe chaotic behavior in both cases.

id: quant-ph/0108095
title: A quantum Goldreich-Levin theorem with cryptographic applications
authors: Mark Adcock, Richard Cleve
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108095
abstract: We investigate the Goldreich-Levin Theorem in the context of quantum information. This result is a reduction from the computational problem of inverting a one-way function to the problem of predicting a particular bit associated with that function. We show that the quantum version of the reduction -- between quantum one-way functions and quantum hard-predicates -- is quantitatively more efficient than the known classical version. Roughly speaking, if the one-way function acts on n-bit strings then the overhead in the reduction is by a factor of O(n/epsilon^2) in the classical case but only by a factor of O(1/epsilon) in the quantum case, where 1/2 + epsilon is the probability of predicting the hard-predicate. Moreover, we prove via a lower bound that, in a black-box framework, the classical version of the reduction cannot have overhead less than order n/epsilon^2. We also show that, using this reduction, a quantum bit commitment scheme that is perfectly binding and computationally concealing can be obtained from any quantum one-way permutation. This complements a recent result by Dumais, Mayers and Salvail, where the bit commitment scheme is perfectly concealing and computationally binding. We also show how to perform qubit commitment by a similar approach.

id: quant-ph/0108096
title: Generalized Continuity Equation and Modified Normalization in PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne, M. Znojil
comments: 16 pages, amssym
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A16:2047-2057,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108096
abstract: The continuity equation relating the change in time of the position probability density to the gradient of the probability current density is generalized to PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. The normalization condition of eigenfunctions is modified in accordance with this new conservation law and illustrated with some detailed examples.

id: quant-ph/0108097
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradoxes for N quNits
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108097
abstract: In this paper we show the series of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradoxes for N maximally entangled N-dimensional quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0108098
title: Polarization squeezing and continuous-variable polarization entanglement
authors: Natalia Korolkova, Gerd Leuchs, Rodney Loudon, Timothy C. Ralph, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 27 pages, including 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052306, (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108098
abstract: The Stokes-parameter operators and the associated Poincare sphere, which describe the quantum-optical polarization properties of light, are defined and their basic properties are reviewed. The general features of the Stokes operators are illustrated by evaluation of their means and variances for a range of simple polarization states. Some of the examples show polarization squeezing, in which the variances of one or more Stokes parameters are smaller than the coherent-state value. The main object of the paper is the application of these concepts to bright squeezed light. It is shown that a light beam formed by interference of two orthogonally-polarized quadrature-squeezed beams exhibits squeezing in some of the Stokes parameters. Passage of such a primary polarization-squeezed beam through suitable optical components generates a pair of polarization-entangled light beams with the nature of a two-mode squeezed state. The use of pairs of primary polarization-squeezed light beams leads to substantially increased entanglement and to the generation of EPR-entangled light beams. The important advantage of these nonclassical polarization states for quantum communication is the possibility of experimentally determining all of the relevant conjugate variables of both squeezed and entangled fields using only linear optical elements followed by direct detection.

id: quant-ph/0108099
title: Entropy production due to coupling to a heat bath in the kicked rotor problem
authors: Sankhasubhra Nag, Avijit Lahiri, Gautam Ghosh
comments: 9 pages, 5 .eps figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108099
abstract: Considering a kicked rotor coupled to a model heat bath both the classical and quantum entropy productions are calculated exactly. Starting with an initial wave packet, the von Neuman entropy as a function of time is determined from the reduced density matrix while the Liouville evolution of the corresponding Husimi distribution provides us with the classical entropy. It is found that both these entropies agree reasonably satisfying the same asymptotic growth law and more importantly both are proportional to the classical Liapounov exponent.

id: quant-ph/0108100
title: Qubit authentication
authors: Marcos Curty, David J. Santos, Esther Perez, Priscila Garcia-Fernandez
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A66,022301(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108100
abstract: Secure communication requires message authentication. In this paper we address the problem of how to authenticate quantum information sent through a quantum channel between two communicating parties with the minimum amount of resources. Specifically, our objective is to determine whether one elementary quantum message (a qubit) can be authenticated with a key of minimum length. We show that, unlike the case of classical-message quantum authentication, this is not possible.

id: quant-ph/0108101
title: Conservation of Orbital Angular Momentum in Stimulated Down-Conversion
authors: D. P. Caetano, M. P. Almeida, P.H. Souto Ribeiro, J. A. O. Huguenin, B. Coutinho dos Santos, A. Z. Khoury
comments: Submitted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108101
abstract: We report on an experiment demonstrating the conservation of orbital angular momentum in stimulated down-conversion. The orbital angular momentum is not transferred to the individual beams of the spontaneous down-conversion, but it is conserved when twin photons are taken individually. We observe the conservation law for an individual beam of the down-conversion through cavity-free stimulated emission.

id: quant-ph/0108102
title: Classicality of quantum information processing
authors: David Poulin
comments: Minor changes, published in Phys. Rev. A 65, 42319 (2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108102
abstract: The ultimate goal of the classicality programme is to quantify the amount of quantumness of certain processes. Here, classicality is studied for a restricted type of process: quantum information processing (QIP). Under special conditions, one can force some qubits of a quantum computer into a classical state without affecting the outcome of the computation. The minimal set of conditions is described and its structure is studied. Some implications of this formalism are the increase of noise robustness, a proof of the quantumness of mixed state quantum computing and a step forward in understanding the very foundation of QIP.

id: quant-ph/0108103
title: A Non-Adiabatic Controlled Not Gate for the Kane Solid State Quantum Computer
authors: C. Wellard, L.C.L. Hollenberg, H.C.Pauli
comments: 8 pages, No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108103
abstract: The method of iterated resolvents is used to obtain an effective Hamiltonian for neighbouring qubits in the Kane solid state quantum computer. In contrast to the adiabatic gate processes inherent in the Kane proposal we show that free evolution of the qubit-qubit system, as generated by this effective Hamiltonian, combined with single qubit operations, is sufficient to produce a controlled-NOT (c-NOT) gate. Thus the usual set of universal gates can be obtained on the Kane quantum computer without the need for adiabatic switching of the controllable parameters as prescribed by Kane. Both the fidelity and gate time of this non-adiabatic c-NOT gate are determined by numerical simulation.

id: quant-ph/0108104
title: Global entanglement in multiparticle systems
authors: David A. Meyer, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 9 pages, plain TeX, 1 PostScript figure included with epsf.tex (ignore the under/overfull \vbox error messages); for related work see this http URL or this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108104
abstract: We define a polynomial measure of multiparticle entanglement which is scalable, i.e., which applies to any number of spin-1/2 particles. By evaluating it for three particle states, for eigenstates of the one dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet and on quantum error correcting code subspaces, we illustrate the extent to which it quantifies global entanglement. We also apply it to track the evolution of entanglement during a quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0108105
title: On the structure of covariant phase observables
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonpaa
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 1299-1308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108105
abstract: We study the mathematical structure of covariant phase observables. Such an observable can alternatively be expressed as a phase matrix, as a sequence of unit vectors, as a sequence of phase states, or as an equivalent class of covariant trace-preserving operations. Covariant generalized operator measures are defined by structure matrices which form a W*-algebra with phase matrices as its subset. The properties of the Radon-Nikodym derivatives of phase probability measures are studied.

id: quant-ph/0108106
title: Perspectives on a Solid State NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Edward B. Fel'dman, Serge Lacelle
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108106
abstract: A quantum information processing device, based on bulk solid state NMR of the quasi-one dimensional material hydroxyapatite, is proposed following the magnetic resonance force microscopy work of Yamamoto et al (quant-ph/0009122). In a macroscopic sample of hydroxyapatite, our solid state NMR model yields a limit of 10^8 qubits imposed by physics, while development of current technological considerations should allow an upper bound in the range of hundreds to thousands of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0108107
title: On Quantum - Classical Correspondence for Baker's Map
authors: K. Inoue, M. Ohya, I.V. Volovich
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108107
abstract: Quantum baker`s map is a model of chaotic system. We study quantum dynamics for the quantum baker's map. We use the Schack and Caves symbolic description of the quantum baker`s map. We find an exact expression for the expectation value of the time dependent position operator. A relation between quantum and classical trajectories is investigated. Breakdown of the quantum-classical correspondence at the logarithmic timescale is rigorously established.

id: quant-ph/0108108
title: Generalized measurements by linear elements
authors: John Calsamiglia
comments: 4 pages. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 030301(R) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108108
abstract: I give a first characterization of the class of generalized measurements that can be exactly realized on a pair of qudits encoded in indistinguishable particles, by using only linear elements and particle detectors. Two immediate results follow from this characterization. (i) The Schmidt number of each POVM element cannot exceed the number of initial particles. This rules out any possibility of performing perfect Bell-measurements for qudits. (ii) The maximum probability of performing a generalized incomplete Bell-measurement is 1/2.

id: quant-ph/0108109
title: Time dependence of occupation numbers and thermalization time in closed chaotic many-body systems
authors: V.V.Flambaum, F.M.Izrailev
comments: RevTex, 4 pages including 2 PS-figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108109
abstract: We study the time evolution of occupation numbers for interacting Fermi-particles in the situation when exact compound states are "chaotic". This situation is generic for highly excited many-particles states in heavy nuclei, complex atoms, quantum dots, spin systems and quantum computer models. Numerical data show perfect agreement with a simple theory for the onset of thermalization in close systems of interacting particles.

id: quant-ph/0108110
title: Polynomial-Time Simulation of Pairing Models on a Quantum Computer
authors: L.-A. Wu, M.S. Byrd, D.A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, Latest, modified version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057904 (2002), Due to a proofs mix up there is also an Erratum: 89, 139901 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108110
abstract: We propose a polynomial-time algorithm for simulation of the class of pairing Hamiltonians, e.g., the BCS Hamiltonian, on an NMR quantum computer. The algorithm adiabatically finds the low-lying spectrum in the vicinity of the gap between ground and first excited states, and provides a test of the applicability of the BCS Hamiltonian to mesoscopic superconducting systems, such as ultra-small metallic grains.

id: quant-ph/0108111
title: On the nonadiabatic geometric quantum gates
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin, Matsumoto Keiji
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108111
abstract: Motivated for the fault tolerant quantum computation, quantum gate by adiabatic geometric phase shift is extensively investigated. In this paper, we demonstrate the nonadiabatic scheme for the geometric phase shift and conditional geometric phase shift. Essentially, the new scheme is simply to add an appropriate additional field. With this additional field, the state evolution can be controlled exactly on a dynamical phase free path. Geometric quantum gates for single qubit and the controlled NOT gate for two qubits are given.

id: quant-ph/0108112
title: Quantum stochastic equation for the low density limit
authors: L. Accardi, A. N. Pechen, I. V. Volovich
comments: Replaced with version published in J. Phys. A. References are added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) 4889-4902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108112
abstract: A new derivation of quantum stochastic differential equation for the evolution operator in the low density limit is presented. We use the distribution approach and derive a new algebra for quadratic master fields in the low density limit by using the energy representation. We formulate the stochastic golden rule in the low density limit case for a system coupling with Bose field via quadratic interaction. In particular the vacuum expectation value of the evolution operator is computed and its exponential decay is shown.

id: quant-ph/0108113
title: The N-box paradox in orthodox quantum mechanics
authors: Conall Boyle, Roger Schafir
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108113
abstract: The prediction of the N-box paradox, that whichever box is opened will contain the record of the particle having passed through it, is traced to a failure to specify whether the other boxes are distinguishable or indistinguishable. These correspond to different ways of lifting the degeneracy of a certain measurement, and have incompatible consequences.

id: quant-ph/0108114
title: Degrees of controllability for quantum systems and applications to atomic systems
authors: S. G. Schirmer, J. V. Leahy, A. I. Solomon
comments: 20 pages, IoP LaTeX, revised and expanded version
journal: J. Phys. A 35, 4125-4141 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108114
abstract: Precise definitions for different degrees of controllability for quantum systems are given, and necessary and sufficient conditions are discussed. The results are applied to determine the degree of controllability for various atomic systems with degenerate energy levels and transition frequencies.

id: quant-ph/0108115
title: Phase-selective reversible quantum decoherence in cavity QED experiment
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108115
abstract: New feasible cavity QED experiment is proposed to analyse reversible quantum decoherence in consequence of quantum complementarity and entanglement. Utilizing the phase selective manipulations with enviroment, it is demonstrated how the complementarity particularly induces a preservation of visibility, whereas quantum decoherence is more progressive due to pronounced entanglement between system and enviroment. This effect can be directly observed using the proposed cavity QED measurements.

id: quant-ph/0108116
title: A polynomial-time solution to the parity problem on an NMR quantum computer
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 18 pages, no figure. Some small errors are corrected, but conclusion is not changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108116
abstract: An efficient quantum algorithm is proposed to solve in polynomial time the parity problem, one of the hardest problems both in conventional quantum computation and in classical computation, on NMR quantum computers. It is based on the quantum parallelism principle in a quantum ensemble, the selective decoherence manipulation, and the NMR phase-sensitive measurement. The quantum circuit for the quantum algorithm is designed explicitly.

id: quant-ph/0108117
title: Generation of arbitrary two dimensional motional state of a trapped ion
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108117
abstract: We present a scheme to generate an arbitrary two-dimensional quantum state of motion of a trapped ion. This proposal is based on a sequence of laser pulses, which are tuned appropriately to control transitions on the sidebands of two modes of vibration. Not more than $(M+1)(N+1)$ laser pulses are needed to generate a pure state with upper phonon number $M$ and $N$ in the $x$ and $y$ direction respectively.

id: quant-ph/0108118
title: The one-way quantum computer - a non-network model of quantum computation
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Daniel E. Browne, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 49 1299 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108118
abstract: A one-way quantum computer works by only performing a sequence of one-qubit measurements on a particular entangled multi-qubit state, the cluster state. No non-local operations are required in the process of computation. Any quantum logic network can be simulated on the one-way quantum computer. On the other hand, the network model of quantum computation cannot explain all ways of processing quantum information possible with the one-way quantum computer. In this paper, two examples of the non-network character of the one-way quantum computer are given. First, circuits in the Clifford group can be performed in a single time step. Second, the realisation of a particular circuit --the bit-reversal gate-- on the one-way quantum computer has no network interpretation. (Submitted to J. Mod. Opt, Gdansk ESF QIT conference issue.)

id: quant-ph/0108119
title: A device for feasible fidelity, purity, Hilbert-Schmidt distance and entanglement witness measurements
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062320 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108119
abstract: A generic model of measurement device which is able to directly measure commonly used quantum-state characteristics such as fidelity, overlap, purity and Hilbert-Schmidt distance for two general uncorrelated mixed states is proposed. In addition, for two correlated mixed states, the measurement realizes an entanglement witness for Werner's separability criterion. To determine these observables, the estimation only one parameter - the visibility of interference, is needed. The implementations in cavity QED, trapped ion and electromagnetically induced transparency experiments are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0108120
title: Quantization of Non-Hamiltonian Systems
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108120
abstract: In this paper a generalization of Weyl quantization which maps a dynamical operator in a function space to a dynamical superoperator in an operator space is suggested. Quantization of dynamical operator, which cannot be represented as Poisson bracket with some function, is considered. The usual Weyl quantization of observables can be derived as a specific case of suggested quantization if dynamical operator is an operator of multiplication on a function. This approach allows to define consistent Weyl quantization of non-Hamiltonian and dissipative systems. Examples of the harmonic oscillator with friction and a system which evolves by Fokker-Planck-type equation are considered.

id: quant-ph/0108121
title: To the finite information content of the physically existing reality
authors: Wolfgang Orthuber
comments: 11 pages, compact formatting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108121
abstract: Every physical measuring needs a finite, different from zero measurement time and provides information in form of the choice of a measurement result from all possible measurement results. If infinitely many (different) measurement results would be possible, the choice of a measurement result could deliver an infinite quantity of information. But the results of physical measurings (of finite duration) never deliver an infinite quantity of information, they describe past, finite reality. Therefore the set of all possible measurement results a priori is finite. In the physical reality only a finite information quantity can be processed within a finite time interval. For mathematical models whose representation requires a processing of an infinite quantity of information, for example irrational numbers, no (exact) equivalent exists in the physical reality. So mathematical calculations, which have an equivalent in physical reality, can include only rational (finitely many elementary) combinations of rational numbers. Conclusions arise from this for the foundations of mathematical physics.

id: quant-ph/0108122
title: Algorithm for Computing Excited States in Quantum Theory
authors: X.Q. Luo, H. Jirari, H. Kroger, K. Moriarty
comments: 3 pages, uses Latex and aipproc.cls
journal: Advanced Computing and Analysis Techniques in Physics Research: VII International Workshop; ACAT 2000, American Institute of Physics (2001) 217-219
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108122
abstract: Monte Carlo techniques have been widely employed in statistical physics as well as in quantum theory in the Lagrangian formulation. However, in the conventional approach, it is extremely difficult to compute the excited states. Here we present a different algorithm: the Monte Carlo Hamiltonian method, designed to overcome the difficulties of the conventional approach. As a new example, application to the Klein-Gordon field theory is shown.

id: quant-ph/0108123
title: Superluminal information transmission using a double-double-slit apparatus
authors: Jason Hatter
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108123
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn

id: quant-ph/0108124
title: Role of entanglement in two-photon imaging
authors: Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 123602 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108124
abstract: The use of entangled photons in an imaging system can exhibit effects that cannot be mimicked by any other two-photon source, whatever the strength of the correlations between the two photons. We consider a two-photon imaging system in which one photon is used to probe a remote (transmissive or scattering) object, while the other serves as a reference. We discuss the role of entanglement versus correlation in such a setting, and demonstrate that entanglement is a prerequisite for achieving distributed quantum imaging.

id: quant-ph/0108125
title: Completeness of photon-added squeezed vacuum and one-photon-states and of photon-added coherent states on a circle
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX 2e, amssym, graphics, to appear in PLA
journal: Phys. Lett. A 288 (2001) 241-250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108125
abstract: A discrete completeness relation and a continuous one with a positive measure are found for the photon-added squeezed vacuum states. Extension to the photon-added squeezed one-photon states is considered. Photon-added coherent states on a circle are introduced. Their normalization and unity resolution relation are given.

id: quant-ph/0108126
title: Generalized coherent states associated with the C_¦Ë-extended oscillator
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 59 pages, 8 figures, LaTeX2e, amssym, graphics, to appear in Ann. Phys. (NY)
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 293 (2001) 147-188
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108126
abstract: Two new types of coherent states associated with the C_{\lambda}-extended oscillator, where C_{\lambda} is the cyclic group of order \lambda, are introduced. The first ones include as special cases both the Barut-Girardello and the Perelomov su(1,1) coherent states for \lambda=2, as well as the annihilation-operator coherent states of the C_{\lambda}-extended oscillator spectrum generating algebra for higher \lambda values. The second ones, which are eigenstates of the C_{\lambda}-extended oscillator annihilation operator, extend to higher \lambda values the paraboson coherent states, to which they reduce for \lambda=2. All these states satisfy a unity resolution relation in the C_{\lambda}-extended oscillator Fock space (or in some subspace thereof). They give rise to Bargmann representations of the latter, wherein the generators of the C_{\lambda}-extended oscillator algebra are realized as differential-operator-valued matrices (or differential operators). The statistical and squeezing properties of the new coherent states are investigated over a wide range of parameters and some interesting nonclassical features are exhibited.

id: quant-ph/0108127
title: Relativity and EPR Entanglement: Comments
authors: S.C. Tiwari
comments: 6 pages, no figure; Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol 65,p 016101, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108127
abstract: Recent experiment by Zhinden et al (Phys. Rev {\bf A} 63 02111, 2001) purports to test compatibility between relativity and quantum mechanics in the classic EPR setting. We argue that relativity has no role in the EPR argument based solely on non-relativistic quantum formalism. It is suggested that this interesting experiment may have significance to address fundamental questions on quantum probability.

id: quant-ph/0108128
title: Beyond the Fokker-Planck equation: Stochastic Simulation of Complete Wigner representation for the Optical Parametric Oscillator
authors: L. I. Plimak, M. K. Olsen, M. Fleischhauer, M. J. Collett
comments: RevTeX, 1 EPS figure, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108128
abstract: We demonstrate a method which allows the stochastic modelling of quantum systems for which the generalised Fokker-Planck equation in the phase space contains derivatives of higher than second order. This generalises quantum stochastics far beyond the quantum-optical paradigm of three and four-wave mixing problems to which these techniques have so far only been applicable. To verify our method, we model a full Wigner representation for the optical parametric oscillator, a system where the correct results are well known and can be obtained by other methods.

id: quant-ph/0108129
title: Entanglement, joint measurement, and state reduction
authors: Alan Macdonald
comments: New material. Reformatted for journal submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108129
abstract: Entanglement is perhaps the most important new feature of the quantum world. It is expressed in quantum theory by the joint measurement formula. We prove the formula for self-adjoint observables from a plausible assumption, which for spacelike separated measurements is an expression of relativistic causality. State reduction is simply a way to express the JMF after one measurement has been made, and its result known.

id: quant-ph/0108130
title: Inverse Quantum Zeno Effect in Quantum Oscillations
authors: Alexander D. Panov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX 2.09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108130
abstract: It is shown that inverse quantum Zeno effect (IZE) may exist in a three-level system with Rabi oscillations between discrete atomic states. The experiment to observe IZE in such a system is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0108131
title: A Proposed Quantum Low Density Parity Check Code
authors: Michael S. Postol
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108131
abstract: We propose a new CSS code based on the finite geometry low density parity check code of Kou, Lin, and Fossorier.

id: quant-ph/0108132
title: A simple model of quantum trajectories
authors: Todd A. Brun
comments: 42 pages RevTeX including four figures in encapsulated postscript. Submitted to special issue of American Journal of Physics
journal: Am. J. Phys. 70, 719-737 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108132
abstract: Quantum trajectory theory, developed largely in the quantum optics community to describe open quantum systems subjected to continuous monitoring, has applications in many areas of quantum physics. In this paper I present a simple model, using two-level quantum systems (q-bits), to illustrate the essential physics of quantum trajectories and how different monitoring schemes correspond to different ``unravelings'' of a mixed state master equation. I also comment briefly on the relationship of the theory to the Consistent Histories formalism and to spontaneous collapse models.

id: quant-ph/0108133
title: On Classical and Quantum Cryptography
authors: I.V. Volovich, Ya.I. Volovich
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Information Theory (cs.IT); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108133
abstract: Lectures on classical and quantum cryptography. Contents: Private key cryptosystems. Elements of number theory. Public key cryptography and RSA cryptosystem. Shannon`s entropy and mutual information. Entropic uncertainty relations. The no cloning theorem. The BB84 quantum cryptographic protocol. Security proofs. Bell`s theorem. The EPRBE quantum cryptographic protocol.

id: quant-ph/0108134
title: Local Realistic Model for Two-Particle Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Pairs
authors: Zhi-Yuan Li
comments: 4 pages, prepared in REVTEX format; 1 postscript figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108134
abstract: A local realistic model for quantum mechanics of two-particle Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs is proposed. In this model, it is the strict obedience of conservation laws in each event at the quantum level that uphold the perfect correlation of two spatially-separated particles, instead of nonlocality in the orthodox formulation of quantum mechanics. Therefore, one can conclude that all components of the spin of two particles, and the position and momentum of a particle can be measured simultaneously. The proposed model yields the same statistical prediction on an ensemble of individual particles as the orthodox formulation does. This suggests that the wave function is not a complete description of individual particle as assumed in the orthodox formulation, but only a statistical description of an ensemble of particles.

id: quant-ph/0108135
title: Relation between complementarity and nonlocality under decoherence
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108135
abstract: Relations connecting violation of any Bell inequalities and the complementarity between visibility and distinguishability in the interferometric experiments with different sources of decoherence are presented. A boundary of local-realistic explanation of the which-way complementarity is discussed in dependence on the choice of independent or collective tests of nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0108136
title: Dynamics of open quantum systems initially entangled with environment: Beyond the Kraus representation
authors: Peter Stelmachovic, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 5 revtex pages, no figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108136
abstract: We present a general analysis of the role of initial correlations between the open system and an environment on quantum dynamics of the open system.

id: quant-ph/0108137
title: Geometry of entangled states, Bloch spheres and Hopf fibrations
authors: R. Mosseri, R. Dandoloff
comments: submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108137
abstract: We discuss a generalization to 2 qubits of the standard Bloch sphere representation for a single qubit, in the framework of Hopf fibrations of high dimensional spheres by lower dimensional spheres. The single qubit Hilbert space is the 3-dimensional sphere S3. The S2 base space of a suitably oriented S3 Hopf fibration is nothing but the Bloch sphere, while the circular fibres represent the qubit overall phase degree of freedom. For the two qubits case, the Hilbert space is a 7-dimensional sphere S7, which also allows for a Hopf fibration, with S3 fibres and a S4 base. A main striking result is that suitably oriented S7 Hopf fibrations are entanglement sensitive. The relation with the standard Schmidt decomposition is also discussed

id: quant-ph/0108138
title: A Storage Ring for Neutral Atoms
authors: J. A. Sauer, M. D. Barrett, M. S. Chapman
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 87 (2001) 270401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108138
abstract: We have demonstrated a storage ring for ultra-cold neutral atoms. Atoms with mean velocities of 1 m/s corresponding to kinetic energies of ~100 neV are confined to a 2 cm diameter ring by magnetic forces produced by two current-carrying wires. Up to 10^6 atoms are loaded at a time in the ring, and 7 revolutions are clearly observed. Additionally, we have demonstrated multiple loading of the ring and deterministic manipulation of the longitudinal velocity distribution of the atoms using applied laser pulses. Applications of this ring include large area atom interferometers and cw monochromatic atomic beam generation.

id: quant-ph/0108139
title: On the stochastic mechanics of the free relativistic particle
authors: Michele Pavon
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 42 (2001), 4846-4856
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108139
abstract: Given a positive energy solution of the Klein-Gordon equation, the motion of the free, spinless, relativistic particle is described in a fixed Lorentz frame by a Markov diffusion process with non-constant diffusion coefficient. Proper time is an increasing stochastic process and we derive a probabilistic generalization of the equation $(d\tau)^2=-\frac{1}{c^2}dX_{\nu}dX_{\nu}$. A random time-change transformation provides the bridge between the $t$ and the $\tau$ domain. In the $\tau$ domain, we obtain an $\M^4$-valued Markov process with singular and constant diffusion coefficient. The square modulus of the Klein-Gordon solution is an invariant, non integrable density for this Markov process. It satisfies a relativistically covariant continuity equation.

id: quant-ph/0108140
title: Non Linear Compton Scattering of Strong Laser Radiation on Channeled Particles in a Crystal
authors: A. K. Avetissian, K. Z. Hatsagortsian, G. F. Mkrtchian, Kh. V. Sedrakian
comments: 5 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108140
abstract: A version for intense $\gamma $-ray radiation based on the multiphoton scattering of strong laser radiation on relativistic particle beam channeled in a crystal is proposed. The scheme is considered when the incident laser beam and charged paricles beam are counter-propagating and the laser radiation is resonant to the energy levels of transversal motion of channeled particles.

id: quant-ph/0108141
title: Numerical simulation of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiments in a local hidden variables model
authors: W. A. Hofer
comments: 4 pages (RevTeX) and 3 figures (eps). The paper was rewritten to account for all the objections raised by various referees. For the objections to the previous version see this http URL The paper is again being submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108141
abstract: We simulate correlation measurements of entangled photons numerically. The model employed is strictly local. In our model correlations arise from a phase, connecting the electromagnetic fields of the two photons at their separate points of measurement. We sum up coincidences for each pair individually and model the operation of a polarizer beam splitter numerically. The results thus obtained differ substantially from the classical results. In addition, we analyze the effects of decoherence and non-ideal beam splitters. It is shown that under realistic experimental conditions the Bell inequalities are violated by more than 30 standard deviations.

id: quant-ph/0108142
title: A recursion technique for deriving renormalized perturbation expansions for one-dimensional anharmonic oscillator
authors: I.V. Dobrovolska, R.S. Tutik
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, Vol. 16, No. 14 (2001) 2493-2504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108142
abstract: A new recursion procedure for deriving renormalized perturbation expansions for the one-dimensional anharmonic oscillator is offered. Based upon the $\hbar$-expansions and suitable quantization conditions, the recursion formulae obtained have the same simple form both for ground and excited states and can be easily applied to any renormalization scheme. As an example, the renormalized expansions for the sextic anharmonic oscillator are considered.

id: quant-ph/0108143
title: Classical and Quantum Propagation of Chaos
authors: Alex D Gottlieb
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108143
abstract: This article examines the relationship between classical and quantum propagation of chaos. (In this context, "chaos" refers to the Boltzmann's Ansatz of molecular disorder, not to chaotic dynamics.) Classical propagation of chaos is shown to occur when quantum systems that propagate quantum molecular chaos are suitably prepared, allowed to evolve without interference, and then observed.

id: quant-ph/0108144
title: Mean field loops versus quantum anti-crossing nets in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski, Krzysztof Sacha, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, version accepted for publication in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 21, 251 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108144
abstract: We study a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in an asymmetric double well potential. Solutions of the time-independent Gross-Pitaevskii equation reveal intrinsic loops in the energy (or chemical potential) level behavior when the shape of the potential is varied. We investigate the corresponding behavior of the quantum (many-body) energy levels. Applying the two-mode approximation to the bosonic field operators, we show that the quantum energy levels create an anti-crossing net inside the region bounded by the loop of the mean field solution.

id: quant-ph/0108145
title: Explicit conversion from the Casimir force to Planck's law of radiation
authors: Kenji Fukushima, Koichi Ohta
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica A299 (2001) 248-253
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108145
abstract: The Casimir force has its origin in finite modification of the infinite zero-point energy induced by a specific boundary condition for the spatial configuration. In terms of the imaginary-time formalism at finite temperature, the root of Planck's law of radiation can be traced back to finite modification of the infinite vacuum energy induced by the periodic boundary condition in the temporal direction. We give the explicit conversion from the Casimir force to Planck's law of radiation, which shows the apparent correspondence between the system bounded by parallel conducting plates and the thermodynamic system. The temperature inversion symmetry and the duality relation in the thermodynamics are also discussed. We conclude that the effective temperature characterized by the spatial extension should no longer be regarded as genuine temperature.

id: quant-ph/0108146
title: Simulating Physical Phenomena by Quantum Networks
authors: R. Somma, G. Ortiz, J. E. Gubernatis, E. Knill, R. Laflamme
comments: 44 pages, 15 psfigure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0108146
abstract: Physical systems, characterized by an ensemble of interacting elementary constituents, can be represented and studied by different algebras of observables or operators. For example, a fully polarized electronic system can be investigated by means of the algebra generated by the usual fermionic creation and annihilation operators, or by using the algebra of Pauli (spin-1/2) operators. The correspondence between the two algebras is given by the Jordan-Wigner isomorphism. As we previously noted similar one-to-one mappings enable one to represent any physical system in a quantum computer. In this paper we evolve and exploit this fundamental concept in quantum information processing to simulate generic physical phenomena by quantum networks. We give quantum circuits useful for the efficient evaluation of the physical properties (e.g, spectrum of observables or relevant correlation functions) of an arbitrary system with Hamiltonian $H$.

id: astro-ph/0108319
title: Dark matter and galactic halos - a quantum approach
authors: A. D. Ernest
comments: 53 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0108319
abstract: Traditional quantum theory can be used to construct hypothetical very large-scale gravitational stationary state structures from traditionally stable atoms and subatomic particles. These so called "gravitational macro-eigenstructures" have potential to explain the composition of extra-galactic dark matter and galactic halos. It is shown that the eigenstates within these structures can have radiative and stimulated lifetimes that are longer than the age of the universe, and also that they cannot be easily transformed or "destroyed" by many conventional galactic processes. Because of the unique nature of stationary states, it is shown that gravitational eigenstructures have the potential to remain largely undetected, provided certain conditions are met. Speculatively, it is suggested that they could provide a mechanism for the origin of high-energy cosmic rays, and also that, if these hypothetical structures have been present from an early time in the history of the universe, then they could have influenced the large- scale structure of the universe.

id: cond-mat/0108101
title: Cancellation of Spin-Orbit Effects in Quantum Gates Based on the Exchange Coupling in Quantum Dots
authors: Guido Burkard, Daniel Loss
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v2: minor changes, words added in title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 047903 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108101
abstract: We study the effect of the spin-orbit interaction on quantum gate operations based on the spin exchange coupling where the qubit is represented by the electron spin in a quantum dot or a similar nanostructure. Our main result is the exact cancellation of the spin-orbit effects in the sequence producing the quantum XOR gate for the ideal case where the pulse shapes of the exchange and spin-orbit interactions are identical. For the non-ideal case, the two pulse shapes can be made almost identical and the gate error is strongly suppressed by two small parameters, the spin-orbit constant and the deviation of the two pulse shapes. We show that the dipole-dipole interaction leads only to very small errors in the XOR gate.

id: cond-mat/0108216
title: On "Do the attractive bosons condense?" by N. K. Wilkin, J. M. F. Gunn, R. A. Smith
authors: M.S. Hussein, O.K. Vorov
comments: 5 pages, minor textual revisions
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108216
abstract: Using Perron-Frobenius theorem, we prove that the results by Wilkin, Gunn and Smith [1] for the ground states of N Bose atoms rotating at the angular momentum L in a harmonic atomic trap with frequency omega interacting via attractive delta^2(r) forces, are valid for a broad class of predominantly attractive interactions V(r), not necessarily attractive for any r. The sufficient condition for the interaction is that all the two-body matrix elements <z_1^k z_2^l |V| z_2^m z_1^n> allowed by the conservation of angular momentum k+l = m+n, are negative. This class includes, in particular, the Gaussian attraction of arbitrary radius, -1/r - Coulomb and log(r)-Coulomb forces, as well as all the short-range R << omega^{-1/2} interactions satisfying inequality int d^2r V(r) < 0. There is no condensation at L>> 1, and the angular momentum is concentrated in the collective ``center-of-mass'' mode.

id: cond-mat/0108243
title: Ground State Energy Fluctuations of a System Coupled to a Bath
authors: K. E. Nagaev, M. Buttiker
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures, minor changes
journal: Europhys. Lett. 58, 475 (2002).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108243
abstract: It is often argued that a small non-degenerate quantum system coupled to a bath has a fixed energy in its ground state since a fluctuation in energy would require an energy supply from the bath. We consider a simple model of a harmonic oscillator (the system) coupled to a linear string and determine the mean squared energy fluctuations. We also analyze the two time correlator of the energy and discuss its behavior for a finite string.

id: cond-mat/0108300
title: Ground states of a system of interacting particles in a parabolic trap
authors: M.S. Hussein, O.K. Vorov
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Physica B, presented at SCES-2001, Ann Arbor, Michigan
journal: Physica B312 (2002) 550
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108300
abstract: Within the "lowest Landau level approximation", we develop a method to find the ground state of a 2d system of interacting particles confined by a parabolic potential.

id: cond-mat/0108339
title: Decoherence and dephasing in spin-based solid state quantum computers
authors: Xuedong Hu, Rogerio de Sousa, S. Das Sarma
comments: Conclusion added. Other minor changes made
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108339
abstract: We discuss the operational definition of decoherence in various solid state systems. In particular, we review, in the context of spin-based solid state quantum computation, the introduction of $T_1$ and $T_2$ to describe decoherence in a two level system. We provide a perspective on recent experiments involving the manipulation of spin coherence in semiconductors, and discuss specific decoherence and dephasing issues in electron spin-based quantum dot quantum computer architectures.

id: cond-mat/0108349
title: Rate limit for photoassociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Juha Javanainen, Matt Mackie
comments: 5 pgs, 18 refs., 3 figs., submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 090403 (2002).
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108349
abstract: We simulate numerically the photodissociation of molecules into noncondensate atom pairs that accompanies photoassociation of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate into a molecular condensate. Such rogue photodissociation sets a limit on the achievable rate of photoassociation. Given the atom density \rho and mass m, the limit is approximately 6\hbar\rho^{2/3}/m. At low temperatures this is a more stringent restriction than the unitary limit of scattering theory.

id: cond-mat/0108375
title: Mechanism of Magnetism in Stacked Nanographite
authors: Kikuo Harigaya, Naoki Kawatsu, Toshiaki Enoki
comments: 
journal: Meeting Abstracts of JPS, Vol. 56, Issue 1, Part 4, p. 739
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108375
abstract: Nanographite systems, where graphene sheets of the orders of the nanometer size are stacked, show novel magnetic properties, such as, spin-glass like behaviors, and the change of ESR line widths while gas adsorptions. Recently, it has been found that magnetic moments decrease with the decrease of the interlayer distance while water molecules are attached physically. In this paper, we consider the mechanisms of antiferromagnetism using the Hubbard-type model...

id: cond-mat/0108450
title: Photon Correlation Spectroscopy of a Single Quantum Dot
authors: A. Kiraz, S. Falth, C. Becher, B. Gayral, W.V. Schoenfeld, P.M. Petroff, Lidong Zhang, E. Hu, A. Imamoglu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108450
abstract: We report photon correlation measurements that allow us to observe unique signatures of biexcitons in a single self-assembled InAs quantum dot. Photon correlation measurements of biexciton emission exhibit both bunching and antibunching under continuous-wave excitation while only antibunching is observed under pulsed excitation. Cross-correlation between biexciton and single-exciton peaks reveal highly asymmetric features, demonstrating that biexciton and exciton emissions have strong correlations due to cascaded emission. The anticipated correlation between the polarization of exciton and biexciton emissions however, is absent under our excitation conditions. Photon correlation measurements also provide evidence for the identification of the charged exciton emission.

id: cond-mat/0108499
title: Mechanism of magnetism in stacked nanographite with open shell electrons
authors: Kikuo Harigaya, Toshiaki Enoki
comments: 13 pages; Harigaya's Web site: this http URL; Nanotech. Inst. of AIST: this http URL
journal: Chemical Physics Letters, vol. 351, pp. 128-134 (2002)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108499
abstract: Antiferromagnetism in stacked nanographite is investigated with using the Hubbard-type models. The A-B stacking or the stacking near to that of A-B type is favorable for the hexagonal nanographite with zigzag edges, in order that magnetism appears. Next, we find that the open shell electronic structure can be an origin of the decreasing magnetic moment with the decrease of the inter-graphene distance, as experiments on adsorption of molecules suggest.

id: cond-mat/0108509
title: Nonlinear backreaction in a quantum mechanical SQUID
authors: J.F.Ralph, T.D.Clark, M.J.Everitt, P.Stiffell
comments: 9 pages, to be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 64, 180504/1-4 (2001)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0108509
abstract: In this paper we discuss the coupling between a quantum mechanical superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) and an applied static magnetic field. We demonstrate that the backreaction of a SQUID on the applied field can interfere with the ability to bias the SQUID at values of the static (DC) magnetic flux at, or near to, transitions in the quantum mechanical SQUID.

id: gr-qc/0108038
title: Algorithmic Complexity in Cosmology and Quantum Gravity
authors: V. Dzhunushaliev, D. Singleton
comments: 15 pages
journal: Entropy 4 (2002) 3-31
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0108038
abstract: In this article we use the idea of algorithmic complexity (AC) to study various cosmological scenarios, and as a means of quantizing the gravitational interaction. We look at 5D and 7D cosmological models where the Universe begins as a higher dimensional Planck size spacetime which fluctuates between Euclidean and Lorentzian signatures. These fluctuations are governed by the AC of the two different signatures. At some point a transition to a 4D Lorentzian signature Universe occurs, with the extra dimensions becoming ``frozen'' or non-dynamical. We also apply the idea of algorithmic complexity to study composite wormholes, the entropy of blackholes, and the path integral for quantum gravity.

id: gr-qc/0108051
title: Gravitational effects on entangled states and interferometer with entangled atoms
authors: Horst von Borzeszkowski, Michael B. Mensky
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A286 (2001) 102-106
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0108051
abstract: It is discussed how systems of quantum-correlated (entangled)particles or atoms behave in external gravitational fields and what gravitational effects may exist in such systems. An experimental setup is proposed which improves the sensitivity of the Ramsey interferometer by the usage of quantum-correlated atoms. Entanglement of $n$ atoms improves the sensitivity to small phase shifts in $n^2$ times. This scheme may be used for observing gravity-induced phase shifts in laboratory.

id: hep-ph/0108219
title: Geometry of Coherent States : Some Examples of Calculations of Chern-Characters
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File 1 + 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0108219
abstract: First we make a brief review of coherent states and prove that the resolution of unity can be obtained by the 1-st Chern character of some bundle. Next we define a Grassmann manifold for a set of coherent states and construct the pull-back bundle making use of a projector from the parameter space to this Grassmann manifold. We study some geometric properties (Chern-characters mainly) of these bundles. Although the calculations of Chern-characters are in general not easy, we can perform them for the special cases. In this paper we report our calculations and propose some interesting problems to be solved in the near future.

id: hep-ph/0108236
title: Supersymmetry Structure and Phenomena
authors: Nir Polonsky
comments: Lecture Notes in Physics Monographs Vol. m 68 N. Polonsky "Supersymmetry Structure and Phenomena - Extensions of the Standard Model",XV, 169 pages, 2001 (Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg)
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. M68 (2001) 1-169
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0108236
abstract: A fairly non-technical introduction to and survey of supersymmetry phenomenology with pedagogical emphasis, including exercises. Suitable for both theorists and experimentalists. The manuscript appeared as a Springer-Verlag monograph in physics. The body of the manuscript is provided here with the publisher`s permission.

id: hep-th/0108053
title: A thick shell Casimir effect
authors: I. Klich, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 045005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108053
abstract: We consider the Casimir energy of a thick dielectric-diamagnetic shell under a uniform velocity light condition, as a function of the radii and the permeabilities. We show that there is a range of parameters in which the stress on the outer shell is inward, and a range where the stress on the outer shell is outward. We examine the possibility of obtaining an energetically stable configuration of a thick shell made of a material with a fixed volume.

id: hep-th/0108060
title: Corrections to the Newton and Coulomb potentials caused by effects of spacetime foam
authors: A.A. Kirillov, D. Turaev
comments: Latex, 4 pages
journal: Grav.Cosmol. 9 (2003) 267-269
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108060
abstract: We use an extended quantum field theory (EQFT) hep-th/9911168 to explore possible observational effects of the spacetime. It is shown that as it was expected the spacetime foam can provide quantum bose fields with a cutoff at very small scales, if the energy of zero - point fluctuations of fields is taken into account. It is also shown that EQFT changes the behaviour of massless fields at very large scales (in the classical region). We show that as $r\gg 1/\mu $ the Coulomb and Newton forces acquire the behaviour $\sim 1/r$ (instead of $1/r^{2}$).

id: hep-th/0108067
title: Why 3 + 1 metric rather than 4 + 0 or 2 + 2?
authors: H. van Dam, Y. Jack Ng
comments: 8 Latex pages
journal: Phys.Lett. B520 (2001) 159-162
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108067
abstract: Why does the physical 4-dimensional space have a 3 + 1 signature rather than a 4 + 0 or a 2 + 2 for its metric? We give a simple explanation based largely on a group-theoretic argument a la Wigner. Applied to flat spaces of higher dimensions the same approach indicates that metrics with more than one time dimension are physically unacceptable because the corresponding irreducible unitary representations are infinite dimensional (besides the trivial representation).

id: hep-th/0108068
title: Compromise of Localized Graviton with a Small Cosmological Constant in Randall-Sundrum Scenario
authors: D. K. Park, S. Tamaryan
comments: 6 pages, no figure, V2 12 pages, one more author added, will appear in PLB
journal: Phys.Lett. B535 (2003) 305-310
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108068
abstract: A new mechanism which leads to a linearized massless graviton localized on the brane is found in the $AdS$/CFT setting, {\it i.e.} in a single copy of $AdS_5$ spacetime with a singular brane on the boundary, within the Randall-Sundrum brane-world scenario. With an help of a recent development in path-integral techniques, a one-parameter family of propagators for linearized gravity is obtained analytically, in which a parameter $\xi$ reflects various kinds of boundary conditions that arise as a result of the half-line constraint. In the case of a Dirichlet boundary condition ($\xi = 0$) the graviton localized on the brane can be massless {\it via} coupling constant renormalization. Our result supports a conjecture that the usual Randall-Sundrum scenario is a regularized version of a certain underlying theory.

id: hep-th/0108111
title: Perturbative Equivalent Theorem in q-Deformed Dynamics
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages, no figure, accepted by Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B517 (2001) 210-214
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108111
abstract: Corresponding to two ways of realizing the q-deformed Heisenberg algebra by the undeformed variables there are two q-perturbative Hamiltonians with the additional momentum-dependent interactions, one originates from the perturbative expansion of the potential, the other originates from that of the kinetic energy term. At the level of operators, these two q-perturbative Hamiltonians are different. In order to establish a reliable foundation of the perturbative calculations in q-deformed dynamics, except examples of the harmonic-oscillator and the Morse potential demonstrated before, the general q-perturbative equivalent theorem is demonstrated, which states that for any regular potential which is singularity free the expectation values of two q-perturbative Hamiltonians in the eigenstates of the undeformed Hamiltonian are equivalent. For the q-deformed ``free'' particle case, the perturbative Hamiltonian originated from the kinetic energy term still keeps its general expression, but it does not lead to energy shift.

id: hep-th/0108125
title: Nonlocal, noncommutative picture in quantum mechanics and distinguished canonical maps
authors: T. Hakioglu
comments: 14 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108125
abstract: Classical nonlinear canonical (Poisson) maps have a distinguished role in quantum mechanics. They act unitarily on the quantum phase space and generate $\hbar$-independent quantum canonical maps. It is shown that such maps act in the noncommutative phase space as dictated by the classical covariance. A crucial observation made is that under the classical covariance the local quantum mechanical picture can become nonlocal in the Hilbert space. This nonlocal picture is made equivalent by the Weyl map to a noncommutative picture in the phase space formulation of the theory. The connection between the entanglement and nonlocality of the representation is explored and specific examples of the generation of entanglement are provided by using such concepts as the generalized Bell states. That the results have direct application in generating vacuum soliton configurations in the recently popular scalar field theories of noncommutative coordinates is also demonstrated.

id: hep-th/0108216
title: Isotropic representation of noncommutative 2D harmonic oscillator
authors: A.Smailagic, E.Spallucci
comments: 15 pages, RevTex4, no figures; article format, improved version of the previous paper; new references and aknowledgements added
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 107701
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108216
abstract: We show that 2D noncommutative harmonic oscillator has an isotropic representation in terms of commutative coordinates. The noncommutativity in the new mode, induces energy level splitting, and is equivalent to an external magnetic field effect. The equivalence of the spectra of the isotropic and anisotropic representation is traced back to the existence of SU(2) invariance of the noncommutative model.

id: hep-th/0108240
title: When the Casimir energy is not a sum of zero-point energies
authors: Luiz C. de Albuquerque, R. M. Cavalcanti
comments: 19 pages, REVTEX, typos corrected, references added/updated
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 045004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0108240
abstract: We compute the leading radiative correction to the Casimir force between two parallel plates in the $\lambda\Phi^4$ theory. Dirichlet and periodic boundary conditions are considered. A heuristic approach, in which the Casimir energy is computed as the sum of one-loop corrected zero-point energies, is shown to yield incorrect results, but we show how to amend it. The technique is then used in the case of periodic boundary conditions to construct a perturbative expansion which is free of infrared singularities in the massless limit. In this case we also compute the next-to-leading order radiative correction, which turns out to be proportional to $\lambda^{3/2}$.

id: math-ph/0108005
title: Self-duality, four-forms, and the eight-dimensional Yang-Mills/Dittmann-Bures field over the three-level quantum systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: eleven pages, LaTeX, ten new figures, we substantially revise the paper, adding new analyses, while omitting much of the previous detail concerning the implementation of the (Euclidean) CDFN equations. This detail turned out to be largely irrelevant to the main (non-Euclidean) results of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0108005
abstract: Utilizing a number of results of Dittmann, we investigate the nature of the Yang-Mills field over the eight-dimensional convex set, endowed with the Bures metric, of three-level quantum systems. Parallelling the decomposition of eight-dimensional Euclidean fields by Corrigan, Devchand, Fairlie and Nuyts, as well as Figueoroa-O'Farrill and others, we investigate the properties of self-dual and anti-self-dual four-forms corresponding specifically to our Bures/non-Euclidean context. For any of a number of (nondegenerate) 3 x 3 density matrices, we are able to solve the eigenequation of the associated Hodge * operator with respect to the Bures metric. We obtain sets of (traceless) twenty-eight real eigenvalues, consisting of four singlets and three octets. The associated four-forms are found to exhibit quite simple behaviors, though we are not able to derive them in full generality.

id: math-ph/0108015
title: Superintegrability in a two-dimensional space of non-constant curvature
authors: E. G. Kalnins, J. M. Kress, P. Winternitz
comments: 27 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 970-983
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0108015
abstract: A Hamiltonian with two degrees of freedom is said to be superintegrable if it admits three functionally independent integrals of the motion. This property has been extensively studied in the case of two-dimensional spaces of constant (possibly zero) curvature when all the independent integrals are either quadratic or linear in the canonical momenta. In this article the first steps are taken to solve the problem of superintegrability of this type on an arbitrary curved manifold in two dimensions. This is done by examining in detail one of the spaces of revolution found by G. Koenigs. We determine that there are essentially three distinct potentials which when added to the free Hamiltonian of this space have this type of superintegrability. Separation of variables for the associated Hamilton-Jacobi and Schroedinger equations is discussed. The classical and quantum quadratic algebras associated with each of these potentials are determined.

id: math-ph/0108018
title: Symmetries of complexified space-time and algebraic structures in quantum theory
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: v2. style change: REVTeX, 12 pg, preprint, draft, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0108018
abstract: In this paper is discussed description of some algebraic structures in quantum theory by using formal recursive constructions with "complex Poincar\'e group" ISO(4,C).

id: math-ph/0108028
title: Wigner Rotations in Laser Cavities
authors: S. Baskal, Y. S. Kim
comments: RevTeX 9 pages, 2 epsfigures
journal: Phys.Rev.E66:26604,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0108028
abstract: The Wigner rotation is a key word in many branches of physics, chemistry and engineering sciences. It is a group theoretical effect resulting from two Lorentz boosts. The net effect is one boost followed or preceded by a rotation. This rotation can therefore be formulated as a product of three boosts. In relativistic kinematics, it is a rotation in the Lorentz frame where the particle is at rest. This rotation does not change its momentum, but it rotates the direction of the spin. The Wigner rotation is not confined to relativistic kinematics. It manifests itself in physical systems where the underlying mathematics is the Lorentz group. It is by now widely known that this group is the basic scientific language for quantum and classical optics. It is shown that optical beams perform Wigner rotations in laser cavities.

id: math/0108005
title: Matrix algebras converge to the sphere for quantum Gromov--Hausdorff distance
authors: Marc A. Rieffel
comments: 28 pages. various minor improvements.To appear Memoirs Amer. Math. Soc
journal: Mem. Amer. Math. Soc. 168 (2004) no. 796, 67-91
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Metric Geometry (math.MG); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0108005
abstract: On looking at the literature associated with string theory one finds statements that a sequence of matrix algebras converges to the 2-sphere (or to other spaces). There is often careful bookkeeping with lengths, which suggests that one is dealing with ``quantum metric spaces''. We show how to make these ideas precise by means of Berezin quantization using coherent states. We work in the general setting of integral coadjoint orbits for compact Lie groups.

id: math/0108060
title: Fidelity preserving maps on density operators
authors: Lajos Molnar
comments: This is corrected version of the paper math.OA/0108060. The paper has already appeared in ROMP (vol. 48 (2001), 299-303)
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0108060
abstract: We prove that any bijective fidelity preserving transformation on the set of all density operators on a Hilbert space is implemented by an either unitary or antiunitary operator on the underlying Hilbert space.

id: nlin/0108024
title: The Approach to Ergodicity in the Quantum Baker's Map
authors: Andrew Jordan, Mark Srednicki
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures; minor typos corrected in v2
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0108024
abstract: We study the quantum mechanics of a generalized version of the baker's map. We show that the Ruelle resonances (which govern the approach to ergodicity of classical distributions on phase space) also appear in the quantum correlation functions of observables at different times, and hence control the statistical variance of matrix elements of observables (in the basis of eigenstates of the quantum time evolution operator). We illustrate this with numerical results.

id: nlin/0108053
title: Wave Chaos in Elastodynamic Cavity Scattering
authors: Andreas Wirzba, Niels Sondergaard, Predrag Cvitanovic
comments: 7 pages, 5 eps figures, latex (with epl.cls)
journal: Europhys. Lett. 72(4), 534-540 (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0108053
abstract: The exact elastodynamic scattering theory is constructed to describe the spectral properties of two- and more-cylindrical cavity systems, and compared to an elastodynamic generalization of the semi-classical Gutzwiller unstable periodic orbits formulas. In contrast to quantum mechanics, complex periodic orbits associated with the surface Rayleigh waves dominate the low-frequency spectrum, and already the two-cavity system displays chaotic features.

id: physics/0108022
title: Detection of QED vacuum nonlinearities in Maxwell's equations by the use of waveguides
authors: Gert Brodin, Mattias Marklund, Lennart Stenflo
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX3. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 171801
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0108022
abstract: We present a novel method for detecting nonlinearities, due to quantum electrodynamics through photon-photon scattering, in Maxwell's equation. The photon-photon scattering gives rise to self-interaction terms, which are similar to the nonlinearities due to the polarisation in nonlinear optics. These self-interaction terms vanish in the limit of parallel propagating waves, but if instead of parallel propagating waves the modes generated in wavesguides are used, there will be a non-zero total effect. Based on this idea, we calculate the nonlinear excitation of new modes and estimate the strength of this effect. Furthermore, we suggest a principal experimental setup.

