id: quant-ph/0109001
title: Larmor precession and barrier tunneling time of a neutral spinning particle
authors: Zhi-Jian Li, J. Q. Liang, D. H. Kobe
comments: to be published in Physical Review A, 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109001
abstract: The Larmor precession of a neutral spinning particle in a magnetic field confined to the region of a one dimensional-rectangular barrier is investigated for both a nonrelativistic and a relativistic incoming particle. The spin precession serves as a clock to measure the time spent by a quantum particle traversing a potential barrier. With the help of general spin coherent state it is explicitly shown that the precession time is equal to the dwell time in both the nonrelativistic and relativistic cases. We also present a numerical estimation of the precession time showing an apparent superluminal tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0109002
title: Experimental realization of 7-qubit universal perfect controlled-NOT and controlled square-root NOT gates
authors: Daxiu Wei, Xiaodong Yang, Jun Luo, Xianping Sun, Xizhi Zeng, Maili Liu, Shangwu Ding
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, 3 separate PostScript figures, corrected some typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109002
abstract: The controlled-NOT gate and controlled square-root NOT gate play an important role in quantum algorithm. This article reports the experimental results of these two universal quantum logic gates (controlled square-root NOT gate and controlled-NOT gate) on a 7-qubit NMR quantum computer. Further, we propose a simple experimental method to measure and correct the error in the controlled phase-shift gate, which is helpful to construct a more perfect phase-shift gate experimentally and can also be used in more qubits discrete Fourier transformation.

id: quant-ph/0109003
title: Aspects of mutually unbiased bases in odd prime power dimensions
authors: S. Chaturvedi
comments: 3 pages, latex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, art.no. 044301, 1-3 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109003
abstract: We rephrase the Wootters-Fields construction [Ann. Phys., {\bf 191}, 363 (1989)] of a full set of mutually unbiased bases in a complex vector space of dimensions $N=p^r$, where $p$ is an odd prime, in terms of the character vectors of the cyclic group $G$ of order $p$. This form may be useful in explicitly writing down mutually unbiased bases for $N=p^r$.

id: quant-ph/0109004
title: Quantum Computing and Shor`s Factoring Algorithm
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109004
abstract: Lectures on quantum computing. Contents: Algorithms. Quantum circuits. Quantum Fourier transform. Elements of number theory. Modular exponentiation. Shor`s algorithm for finding the order. Computational complexity of Schor`s algorithm. Factoring integers. NP-complete problems.

id: quant-ph/0109005
title: Measurement of the photonic de Broglie wavelength of biphotons generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Keiichi Edamatsu, Ryosuke Shimizu, Tadashi Itoh
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109005
abstract: Using a basic Mach-Zehnder interferometer, we demonstrate experimentally the measurement of the photonic de Broglie wavelength of an entangled photon pair (a biphoton) generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The observed interference manifests the concept of the photonic de Broglie wavelength. The result also provides a proof-of-principle of the quantum lithography that utilizes the reduced interferometric wavelength.

id: quant-ph/0109006
title: Quantum Computing in a Macroscopic Dark Period
authors: Ben Tregenna, Almut Beige, Peter L. Knight
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, revised version, now including a proposal for the implementation of the scheme with calcium ions, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032305 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109006
abstract: Decoherence-free subspaces allow for the preparation of coherent and entangled qubits for quantum computing. Decoherence can be dramatically reduced, yet dissipation is an integral part of the scheme in generating stable qubits and manipulating them via one and two bit gate operations. How this works can be understood by comparing the system with a three-level atom exhibiting a macroscopic dark period. In addition, a dynamical explanation is given for a scheme based on atoms inside an optical cavity in the strong coupling regime and we show how spontaneous emission by the atoms can be highly suppressed.

id: quant-ph/0109007
title: An arbitrated quantum signature scheme
authors: Guihua Zeng, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Phys. Rev. A 65, (In press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109007
abstract: The general principle for a quantum signature scheme is proposed and investigated based on ideas from classical signature schemes and quantum cryptography. The suggested algorithm is implemented by a symmetrical quantum key cryptosystem and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) triplet states and relies on the availability of an arbitrator. We can guarantee the unconditional security of the algorithm, mostly due to the correlation of the GHZ triplet states and the use of quantum one-time pads.

id: quant-ph/0109008
title: Non locality, closing the detection loophole and communication complexity
authors: Serge Massar
comments: 4 pages Latex, minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032121 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109008
abstract: It is shown that the detection loophole which arises when trying to rule out local realistic theories as alternatives for quantum mechanics can be closed if the detection efficiency $\eta$ is larger than $\eta \geq d^{1/2} 2^{-0.0035d}$ where $d$ is the dimension of the entangled system. Furthermore it is argued that this exponential decrease of the detector efficiency required to close the detection loophole is almost optimal. This argument is based on a close connection that exists between closing the detection loophole and the amount of classical communication required to simulate quantum correlation when the detectors are perfect.

id: quant-ph/0109009
title: Quantum key distribution with bright entangled beams
authors: Ch. Silberhorn, N. Korolkova, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 167902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109009
abstract: We suggest a quantum cryptographic scheme using continuous EPR-like correlations of bright optical beams. For binary key encoding, the continuous information is discretized in a novel way by associating a respective measurement, amplitude or phase, with a bit value "1" or "0". The secure key distribution is guaranteed by the quantum correlations. No pre-determined information is sent through the quantum channel contributing to the security of the system.

id: quant-ph/0109010
title: Clifford algebras, noncommutative tori and universal quantum computers
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 8 pages, LaTeXe; AGACSE II July 9-13 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109010
abstract: Recently author suggested [quant-ph/0010071] an application of Clifford algebras for construction of a "compiler" for universal binary quantum computer together with later development [quant-ph/0012009] of the similar idea for a non-binary base. The non-binary case is related with application of some extension of idea of Clifford algebras. It is noncommutative torus defined by polynomial algebraic relations of order l. For l=2 it coincides with definition of Clifford algebra. Here is presented the joint consideration and comparison of both cases together with some discussion on possible physical consequences.

id: quant-ph/0109011
title: Quantum techniques using continuous variables of light
authors: N. Korolkova, Ch. Silberhorn, O. Gloeckl, S. Lorenz, Ch. Marquardt, G. Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; minor correction, accepted version
journal: Eur. Phys. D 18, 229, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109011
abstract: We present schemes for the generation and evaluation of continuous variable entanglement of bright optical beams and give a brief overview of the variety of optical techniques and quantum communication applications on this basis. A new entanglement-based quantum interferometry scheme with bright beams is suggested. The performance of the presented schemes is independent of the relative interference phase which is advantageous for quantum communication applications.

id: quant-ph/0109012
title: Submicroscopic Deterministic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Volodymyr Krasnoholovets
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Invited talk delivered at the Fifth International Conference on Computing Anticipatory Systems: (CASYS'01), Liege, Belgium, 13-18 August 2001. To appear in International Journal of Computing Anticipatory Systems (2002); the journal version
journal: International Journal of Computing Anticipatory Systems, vol. 11, pp. 164-179 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109012
abstract: So-called hidden variables introduced in quantum mechanics by de Broglie and Bohm have changed their initial enigmatic meanings and acquired quite reasonable outlines of real and measurable characteristics. The start viewpoint was the following: All the phenomena, which we observe in the quantum world, should reflect structural properties of the real space. Thus the scale 10^{-28} cm at which three fundamental interactions (electromagnetic, weak, and strong) intersect has been treated as the size of a building block of the space. The appearance of a massive particle is associated with a local deformation of the cellular space, i.e. deformation of a cell. The mechanics of a moving particle that has been constructed is deterministic by its nature and shows that the particle interacts with cells of the space creating elementary excitations called "inertons". The further study has disclosed that inertons are a substructure of the matter waves which are described by the orthodox wave \psi-function formalism. The concept has allowed resolving the spin problem. The theory, or more exactly, the existence of inertons, has been verified experimentally: in rarefied gases, inerton clouds of atoms' electrons interact with a strong laser pulse; in a solid, atom's inertons induce an additional harmonic potential that contributes to the interatomic interaction (metal specimens and the KIO_3*HIO_3 crystal).

id: quant-ph/0109013
title: How to Quantize Phases and Moduli!
authors: H.A. Kastrup
comments: 27 pages, Latex; Refs. added, additional remarks on the harmonic oscillator
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109013
abstract: A typical classical interference pattern of two waves with intensities I_1, I_2 and relative phase phi = phi_2-phi_1 may be characterized by the 3 observables p = sqrt{I_1 I_2}, p cos\phi and -p sin\phi. They are, e.g. the starting point for the semi-classical operational approach by Noh, Fougeres and Mandel (NFM) to the old and notorious phase problem in quantum optics. Following a recent group theoretical quantization of the symplectic space S = {(phi in R mod 2pi, p > 0)} in terms of irreducible unitary representations of the group SO(1,2) the present paper applies those results to that controversial problem of quantizing moduli and phases of complex numbers: The Poisson brackets of the classical observables p cos\phi, -p sin\phi and p > 0 form the Lie algebra of the group SO(1,2). The corresponding self-adjoint generators K_1, K_2 and K_3 of that group may be obtained from its irreducible unitary representations. For the positive discrete series the modulus operator K_3 has the spectrum {k+n, n = 0, 1,2,...; k > 0}. Self-adjoint operators for cos phi and sin phi can be defined as ((1/K_3)K_1 + K_1/K_3)/2 and -((1/K_3)K_2 + K_2/K_3)/2 which have the theoretically desired properties for k > or = 0.5. The approach advocated here solves, e.g. the modulus-phase quantization problem for the harmonic oscillator and appears to provide a full quantum theoretical basis for the NFM-formalism.

id: quant-ph/0109014
title: Generation of entangled states and error protection from adiabatic avoided level crossings
authors: Nicole F. Bell, R. F. Sawyer, Raymond R. Volkas, Yvonne Y. Y. Wong
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Minor changes. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 042328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109014
abstract: We consider the environment-affected dynamics of $N$ self-interacting particles living in one-dimensional double wells. Two topics are dealt with. First, we consider the production of entangled states of two-level systems. We show that by adiabatically varying the well biases we may dynamically generate maximally entangled states, starting from initially unentangled product states. Entanglement degradation due to a common type of environmental influence is then computed by solving a master equation. However, we also demonstrate that entanglement production is unaffected if the system-environment coupling is of the type that induces ``motional narrowing''. As our second but related topic, we construct a different master equation that seamlessly merges error protection/detection dynamics for quantum information with the environmental couplings responsible for producing the errors in the first place. Adiabatic avoided crossing schemes are used in both topics.

id: quant-ph/0109015
title: The unity between quantum field computation, real computation, and quantum computation
authors: A. C. Manoharan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109015
abstract: It is indicated that principal models of computation are indeed significantly related. The quantum field computation model contains the quantum computation model of Feynman. (The term "quantum field computer" was used by Freedman.) Quantum field computation (as enhanced by Wightman's model of quantum field theory) involves computation over the continuum which is remarkably related to the real computation model of Smale. The latter model was established as a generalization of Turing computation. All this is not surprising since it is well known that the physics of quantum field theory (which includes Einstein's special relativity) contains quantum mechanics which in turn contains classical mechanics. The unity of these computing models, which seem to have grown largely independently, could shed new light into questions of computational complexity, into the central P (Polynomial time) versus NP (Non-deterministic Polynomial time) problem of computer science, and also into the description of Nature by fundamental physics theories.

id: quant-ph/0109016
title: ROM-based computation: quantum versus classical
authors: B.C. Travaglione, M.A. Nielsen, H.M. Wiseman, A. Ambainis
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections + section 5 substantially changed
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 2, No. 4 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109016
abstract: We introduce a model of computation based on read only memory (ROM), which allows us to compare the space-efficiency of reversible, error-free classical computation with reversible, error-free quantum computation. We show that a ROM-based quantum computer with one writable qubit is universal, whilst two writable bits are required for a universal classical ROM-based computer. We also comment on the time-efficiency advantages of quantum computation within this model.

id: quant-ph/0109017
title: Entanglement and Properties of Composite Quantum Systems: a Conceptual and Mathematical Analysis
authors: Giancarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto, Tullio Weber
comments: revised version: added subsec. 9.2.5; removed Theo. 12.1; minor grammatical changes; 57 pages; Latex; to be published on Journal of Statistical Physics
journal: J. Stat. Phys.; Vol. 108 (2002) 49-121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109017
abstract: Various topics concerning the entanglement of composite quantum systems are considered with particular emphasis concerning the strict relations of such a problem with the one of attributing objective properties to the constituents. Most of the paper deals with composite systems in pure states. After a detailed discussion and a precise formal analysis of the case of systems of distinguishable particles, the problems of entanglement and the one of the properties of subsystems of systems of identical particles are thourougly discussed. This part is the most interesting and new and it focuses various subtle questions which have never been adequately discussed in the literature. Some inappropriate assertions which appeared in recent papers are analyzed. The relations of the main subject of the paper with the nonlocal aspects of quantum mechanics, as well as with the possibility of deriving Bell's inequality are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0109018
title: Squeezed light from microstructured fibres: towards free space quantum cryptography
authors: S. Lorenz, Ch. Silberhorn, N. Korolkova, R. S. Windeler, G. Leuchs
comments: Print version (corrected typos)
journal: Appl. Phys. B 73, 855-859 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109018
abstract: Amplitude squeezed pulsed light has been produced using a microstructured silica fibre. By spectrally filtering after the nonlinear propagation in the fibre a squeezing value of -1.7dB has been measured. A quantum key distribution scheme based on squeezed light from such microstructured fibres is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0109019
title: Nonstationary Casimir effect in cavities with two resonantly coupled modes
authors: A.V. Dodonov, V.V. Dodonov
comments: 17 pages, 5 ps figures, LaTex, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, v.289, no.6, p.291-300 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109019
abstract: We study the peculiarities of the nonstationary Casimir effect (creation of photons in cavities with moving boundaries) in the special case of two resonantly coupled modes with frequencies $\omega_0$ and $(3\Delta)\omega_0$, parametrically excited due to small amplitude oscillations of the ideal cavity wall at the frequency $2\omega_0(1\delta)$ (with $|\delta|,|\Delta|\ll 1$). The effects of thermally induced oscillations in time dependences of the mean numbers of created photons and the exchange of quantum purities between the modes are discovered. Squeezing and photon distributions in each modes are calculated for initial vacuum and thermal states. A possibility of compensation of detunings is shown.

id: quant-ph/0109020
title: General Multimode Squeezed States
authors: Gan Qin, Ke-lin Wang, Tong-zhong Li
comments: 15 pages, 0 figures, 12 references, RevTeX file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109020
abstract: By the complex multimode Bogoliubov transformation, we obtain the general forms of squeeze operators and squeezed states including squeezed vacuum states, squeezed coherent states, squeezed Fock states and squeezed coherent Fock states, for a general multimode boson system. We decompose the squeezed operator into disentangling form in normal ordering to simplify the expressions of the squeezed states. We also calculate the statistical properties of the SS. Furthermore we prove that if it is non-degenerate, a Bogoliubov transformation matrix can be decomposed into three basic matrix, by which we can not only check the criterion of the minimum uncertainty state (MUS) found by Milburn, but also prove that except the special cases, any multimode squeezed state is MUS after the original creation and annihilation operators rotate properly. We also discuss some special cases of the three basic matrices. Finally we give an analytical results of a two-mode system as an example.

id: quant-ph/0109021
title: Reducing Constraints on Quantum Computer Design by Encoded Selective Recoupling
authors: D.A. Lidar, L.-A. Wu
comments: 5 pages, 1 table, no figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Let. 88, 017905 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109021
abstract: The requirement of performing both single-qubit and two-qubit operations in the implementation of universal quantum logic often leads to very demanding constraints on quantum computer design. We show here how to eliminate the need for single-qubit operations in a large subset of quantum computer proposals: those governed by isotropic and XXZ,XY-type anisotropic exchange interactions. Our method employs an encoding of one logical qubit into two physical qubits, while logic operations are performed using an analogue of the NMR selective recoupling method.

id: quant-ph/0109022
title: Probabilistic instantaneous quantum computation
authors: Caslav Brukner, Jian-Wei Pan, Christoph Simon, Gregor Weihs, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 034304 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109022
abstract: The principle of teleportation can be used to perform a quantum computation even before its quantum input is defined. The basic idea is to perform the quantum computation at some earlier time with qubits which are part of an entangled state. At a later time a generalized Bell state measurement is performed jointly on the then defined actual input qubits and the rest of the entangled state. This projects the output state onto the correct one with a certain exponentially small probability. The sufficient conditions are found under which the scheme is of benefit.

id: quant-ph/0109023
title: Atom Interferometers: Beyond Complementarity Principles
authors: Zhi-Yuan Li
comments: 4 pages in revtex format, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109023
abstract: Complementarity lies at the heart of conceptual foundation of orthodox quantum mechanics. The wave-particle duality makes it impossible to tell which slit each particle passes through and still observe an interference pattern in a Young's double-slit experiment. In this paper, this duality is appraised under the standard formulation of quantum mechanics for atom interferometers. It is found that the internal freedoms like electronic states of an atom can be used to detect the which-path information of each atom while uphold the interference pattern of atoms when the center-of-mass motion of atoms is detected.

id: quant-ph/0109024
title: Entanglement, quantum phase transitions, and density matrix renormalization
authors: Tobias J. Osborne, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 5 pages, 1 eps figure, revtex4; added reference and qualifying remarks
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 1 (1-2), pp. 45-53 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109024
abstract: We investigate the role of entanglement in quantum phase transitions, and show that the success of the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) in understanding such phase transitions is due to the way it preserves entanglement under renormalization. We provide a reinterpretation of the DMRG in terms of the language and tools of quantum information science which allows us to rederive the DMRG in a physically transparent way. Motivated by our reinterpretation we suggest a modification of the DMRG which manifestly takes account of the entanglement in a quantum system. This modified renormalization scheme is shown,in certain special cases, to preserve more entanglement in a quantum system than traditional numerical renormalization methods.

id: quant-ph/0109025
title: About Some Problems Raised by the Relativistic Form of De-Broglie--Bohm Theory of Pilot Wave
authors: Ali Shojai, Fatimah Shojai
comments: 13 pages, RevTeX. To appear in Physica Scripta, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109025
abstract: The standard relativistic de-Broglie--Bohm theory has the problems of tacyonic solutions and the incorrect non-relativistic limit. In this paper we obtain a relativistic theory, not decomposing the relativistic wave equations but looking for a generalization of non-relativistic Bohmian theory in such a way that the correct non-relativistic limit emerges. In this way we are able to construct a relativistic de-Broglie--Bohm theory both for a single particle and for a many-particle system. At the end, the theory is extended to the curved space-time and the connection with quantum gravity is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109026
title: The phase representation of covariant phase observables
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonpaa
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50 (2003) 2127-2131
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109026
abstract: Covariant phase observables are obtained by defining simple conditions for mappings from the set of phase wave functions (unit vectors of the Hardy space) to the set of phase probability densities. The existence of phase probability density for any phase wave function, the existence of interference effects, and the natural phase shift covariance are those simple conditions. The nonlocalizability of covariant phase observables is proved.

id: quant-ph/0109027
title: A nonlocal classical perspective on quantum electrodynamics
authors: P.W.Morgan
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109027
abstract: The ideas behind the nonlocal classical statistical field theory model for the quantized Klein-Gordon field introduced in Morgan(2001, quant-ph/0106141) are extended to accommodate quantum electrodynamics. The anticommutation rules for the quantized Dirac spinor field are given a classical interpretation as a relativistically covariant modification of the minimal coupling interaction between the classical electromagnetic field and a classical Dirac spinor field.

id: quant-ph/0109028
title: Variable length universal entanglement concentration by local operations and its application to teleportation and dense coding
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: LaTeX 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109028
abstract: Using invariance of the $n$-th tensored state w.r.t. the $n$-th symmetric group, we propose a 'variable length' universal entanglement concentration without classical communication. Like variable length data compression, arbitrary unknown states are concentrated into perfect Bell states and not approximate Bell states and the number of Bell states obtained is equal to the optimal rate asymptotically with the probability 1. One of the point of our scheme is that we need no classical communication at all. Using this method, we can construct a universal teleportation and a universal dense coding.

id: quant-ph/0109029
title: Environmental Influence on the Measurement Process in Stochastic Reduction Models
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Revised and retitled; TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109029
abstract: We consider the energy-driven stochastic state vector reduction equation for the density matrix, which for pure state density matrices can be written in two equivalent forms. We use these forms to discuss the decoupling of the noise terms for independent subsystems, and to construct ``environmental'' stochastic density matrices whose time-independent expectations are the usual quantum statistical distributions. We then consider a measurement apparatus weakly coupled to an external environment, and show that in mean field (Hartree) approximation the stochastic equation separates into independent equations for the apparatus and environment, with the Hamiltonian for the apparatus augmented by the environmental expectation of the interaction Hamiltonian. We use the Hartree approximated equation to study a simple accretion model for the interaction of the apparatus with its environment, as part of a more general discussion of when the stochastic dynamics predicts state vector reduction, and when it predicts the maintenance of coherence. We also discuss the magnitude of decoherence effects acting during the reduction process. Our analysis supports the suggestion that a measurement takes place when the different outcomes are characterized by sufficiently distinct environmental interactions for the reduction process to be rapidly driven to completion.

id: quant-ph/0109030
title: A quantum computer based on electrons floating on liquid helium
authors: M.I. Dykman, P.M. Platzman
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of the conference on Experimental Implementation of Quantum Computation, ed. R. Clark (Rinton, Princeton 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109030
abstract: Electrons on a helium surface form a quasi two-dimensional system which displays the highest mobility reached in condensed matter physics. We propose to use this system as a set of interacting quantum bits. We will briefly describe the system and discuss how the qubits can be addressed and manipulated, including interqubit excitation transfer. The working frequency of the proposed quantum computer is ~1GHz. The relaxation rate can be at least 5 orders of magnitude smaller, for low temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0109031
title: Coherent Control of Magneto-optical Rotation in Inhomogeneously Broadened Medium
authors: Anil K. Patnaik, G. S. Agarwal
comments: REVTex format, 14 pages including 6 figures, to be published in Optics Communications
journal: Optics Communications 199 (2001) 127-142
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109031
abstract: We extend our earlier investigations [Opt. Commun. {\bf 179}, 97 (2000)] on the enhancement of magneto-optical rotation (MOR) to include inhomogeneous broadening. We introduce a control field that counter-propagates with respect to the probe field. We derive analytical results for the susceptibilities corresponding to the two circular polarization components of the probe field. From the analytical results we identify and numerically demonstrate the region of parameters where significantly large magneto-optical rotation (MOR) can be obtained. From the numerical results we isolate the significance of the magnetic field and the control field in enhancement of MOR. The control field opens up many new regions of the frequencies of the probe where large magneto-optical rotation occurs. We also report that a large enhancement of MOR can be obtained by operating the probe and control field in two-photon resonance condition.

id: quant-ph/0109032
title: Improved Hamilton-Jacobi Quantization for Nonholonomic Constrained System
authors: Soon-Tae Hong, Won Tae Kim, Yong-Wan Kim, Young-Jai Park
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109032
abstract: The nonholonomic constrained system with second-class constraints is investigated using the Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) quantization scheme to yield the complete equations of motion of the system. Although the integrability conditions in the HJ scheme are equivalent to the involutive relations for the first-class constrained system in the improved Dirac quantization method (DQM), one should elaborate the HJ scheme by using the improved DQM in order to obtain the first-class Hamiltonian and the corresponding effective Lagrangian having the BRST invariant nonholonomic constrained system.

id: quant-ph/0109033
title: Four qubits can be entangled in nine different ways
authors: F. Verstraete, J. Dehaene, B. De Moor, H. Verschelde
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 65: 052112 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109033
abstract: We consider a single copy of a pure four-partite state of qubits and investigate its behaviour under the action of stochastic local quantum operations assisted by classical communication (SLOCC). This leads to a complete classification of all different classes of pure states of four-qubits. It is shown that there exist nine families of states corresponding to nine different ways of entangling four qubits. The states in the generic family give rise to GHZ-like entanglement. The other ones contain essentially 2- or 3-qubit entanglement distributed among the four parties. The concept of concurrence and 3-tangle is generalized to the case of mixed states of 4 qubits, giving rise to a seven parameter family of entanglement monotones. Finally, the SLOCC operations maximizing all these entanglement monotones are derived, yielding the optimal single copy distillation protocol.

id: quant-ph/0109034
title: Nullification of the Nullification
authors: D.M. Appleby
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109034
abstract: A recent claim by Meyer, Kent and Clifton (MKC), that their models ``nullify'' the Kochen-Specker theorem, has attracted much comment. In this paper we present a new counter-argument, based on the fact that a classical measurement reveals, not simply a pre-existing value, but pre-existing classical information. In the MKC models measurements do not generally reveal pre-existing classical information. Consequently, the Kochen-Specker theorem is not nullified. We go on to prove a generalized version of the Kochen-Specker theorem, applying to non-ideal quantum measurements. The theorem was inspired by the work of Simon et al and Larsson (SBZL). However, there is a loophole in SBZL's argument, which means that their result is invalid (operational non-contextuality is not inconsistent with the empirical predictions of quantum mechanics). Our treatment resolves this difficulty. We conclude by discussing the question, whether the MKC models can reproduce the empirical predictions of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0109035
title: Quantum version of the Monty Hall problem
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Derek Abbott
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, no figures, v2: minor corrections to eq. 4,5,7 and 15, v3: published version, ackowledgements added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062318 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109035
abstract: A version of the Monty Hall problem is presented where the players are permitted to select quantum strategies. If the initial state involves no entanglement the Nash equilibrium in the quantum game offers the players nothing more than can be obtained with a classical mixed strategy. However, if the initial state involves entanglement of the qubits of the two players, it is advantageous for one player to have access to a quantum strategy while the other does not. Where both players have access to quantum strategies there is no Nash equilibrium in pure strategies, however, there is a Nash equilibrium in quantum mixed strategies that gives the same average payoff as the classical game.

id: quant-ph/0109036
title: A new application of non-canonical maps in quantum mechanics
authors: Giampiero Esposito
comments: 13 pages, plain Tex. In the revised version, section 3 contains new calculations
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 41 (2002) 1043-1052
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109036
abstract: A proof is given that an invertible and a unitary operator can be used to reproduce the effect of a q-deformed commutator of annihilation and creation operators. In other words, the original annihilation and creation operators are mapped into new operators, not conjugate to each other, whose standard commutator equals the identity plus a correction proportional to the original number operator. The consistency condition for the existence of this new set of operators is derived, by exploiting the Stone theorem on 1-parameter unitary groups. The above scheme leads to modified equations of motion which do not preserve the properties of the original first-order set for annihilation and creation operators. Their relation with commutation relations is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0109037
title: From Spectral Relaxation to Quantified Decoherence
authors: Chr. Balzer, Th. Hannemann, D. Rei?, W. Neuhauser, P.E. Toschek, Chr. Wunderlich
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Laser Physics 12, 729-735 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109037
abstract: Quantum information processing (QIP) requires thorough assessment of decoherence. Atoms or ions prepared for QIP often become addressed by radiation within schemes of alternating microwave-optical double resonance. A well-defined amount of decoherence may be applied to the system when spurious resonance light is admitted simultaneously with the driving radiation. This decoherence is quantified in terms of longitudinal and transversal relaxation. It may serve for calibrating observed decoherence as well as for testing error-correcting quantum codes.

id: quant-ph/0109038
title: On a Problem in Quantum Summation
authors: Stefan Heinrich, Erich Novak
comments: 21 pages, paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109038
abstract: We consider the computation of the mean of sequences in the quantum model of computation. We determine the query complexity in the case of sequences which satisfy a $p$-summability condition for $1\le p<2$. This settles a problem left open in Heinrich (2001).

id: quant-ph/0109039
title: An all silicon quantum computer
authors: T. D. Ladd, J. R. Goldman, F. Yamaguchi, Y. Yamamoto, E. Abe, K. M. Itoh
comments: ReVTeX 4, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 017901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109039
abstract: A solid-state implementation of a quantum computer composed entirely of silicon is proposed. Qubits are Si-29 nuclear spins arranged as chains in a Si-28 (spin-0) matrix with Larmor frequencies separated by a large magnetic field gradient. No impurity dopants or electrical contacts are needed. Initialization is accomplished by optical pumping, algorithmic cooling, and pseudo-pure state techniques. Magnetic resonance force microscopy is used for readout. This proposal takes advantage of many of the successful aspects of solution NMR quantum computation, including ensemble measurement, RF control, and long decoherence times, but it allows for more qubits and improved initialization.

id: quant-ph/0109040
title: Using entanglement improves precision of quantum measurements
authors: G. Mauro D'Ariano, Paoloplacido Lo Presti, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109040
abstract: We show how entanglement can be used to improve the estimation of an unknown transformation. Using entanglement is always of benefit, in improving either the precision or the stability of the measurement. Examples relevant for applications are illustrated, for either qubits and continuous variables

id: quant-ph/0109041
title: How much state assignments can differ
authors: Todd A. Brun, J. Finkelstein, N. David Mermin
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Minor revisions. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032315 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109041
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for a group of density matrices to characterize what different people may know about one and the same physical system.

id: quant-ph/0109042
title: Counterfactual Statements and Weak Measurements: an Experimental Proposal
authors: Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109042
abstract: A recent analysis [quant-ph/0104062] suggests that weak measurements can be used to give observational meaning to counterfactual reasoning in quantum physics. A weak measurement is predicted to assign a negative unit population to a specific state in an interferometric Gedankenexperiment proposed by Hardy. We propose an experimental implementation with trapped ions of the Gedankenexperiment and of the weak measurement. In our standard quantum mechanical analysis of the proposal no states have negative population, but we identify the registration of a negative population by particles being displaced on average in the direction opposite to a force acting upon them.

id: quant-ph/0109043
title: Dynamical Casimir effect without boundary conditions
authors: Hiroki Saito, Hiroyuki Hyuga
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053804 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109043
abstract: The moving-mirror problem is microscopically formulated without invoking the external boundary conditions. The moving mirrors are described by the quantized matter field interacting with the photon field, forming dynamical cavity polaritons: photons in the cavity are dressed by electrons in the moving mirrors. The effective Hamiltonian for the polariton is derived, and corrections to the results based on the external boundary conditions are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109044
title: Particle localization and the Notion of Einstein Causality
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 8 pages. Appeared in: Extensions of Quantum Theory, Eds. A. Horzela and E Kapuscik, published by Apeiron, Montreal 2001, p. 9-16
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109044
abstract: The notion of Einstein causality, i.e. the limiting role of the velocity of light in the transmission of signals, is discussed. It is pointed out that Nimtz and coworkers use the notion of signal velocity in a different sense from Einstein and that their experimental results are in full agreement with Einstein causality in its ordinary sense. We also show that under quite general assumptions instantaneous spreading of particle localization occurs in quantum theory, relativistic or not, with fields or without. We discuss if this affects Einstein causality.

id: quant-ph/0109045
title: Impurity Scattering Induced Entanglement of Ballistic Electrons
authors: A.T. Costa Jr, S. Bose
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109045
abstract: We show how entanglement between two conduction electrons is generated in the presence of a localized magnetic impurity embedded in an otherwise ballistic conductor of special geometry. This process is a generalization of beam-splitter mediated entanglement generation schemes with a localized spin placed at the site of the beam splitter. Our entangling scheme is unconditional and robust to randomness of the initial state of the impurity. The entangled state generated manifests itself in noise reduction of spin-dependent currents.

id: quant-ph/0109046
title: Nonlinear Micromechanical Casimir Oscillator
authors: H. B. Chan, V. A. Aksyuk, R. N. Kleiman, D. J. Bishop, Federico Capasso
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; added and rearranged references; added comments on sensitivity
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 211801 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109046
abstract: The Casimir force between uncharged metallic surfaces originates from quantum mechanical zero point fluctuations of the electromagnetic field. We demonstrate that this quantum electrodynamical effect has a profound influence on the oscillatory behavior of microstructures when surfaces are in close proximity (<= 100 nm). Frequency shifts, hysteretic behavior and bistability caused by the Casimir force are observed in the frequency response of a periodically driven micromachined torsional oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0109047
title: Efficient Classical Simulation of Continuous Variable Quantum Information Processes
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Barry C. Sanders, Samuel L. Braunstein, Kae Nemoto
comments: 5 pages, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 88, 097904 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109047
abstract: We obtain sufficient conditions for the efficient simulation of a continuous variable quantum algorithm or process on a classical computer. The resulting theorem is an extension of the Gottesman-Knill theorem to continuous variable quantum information. For a collection of harmonic oscillators, any quantum process that begins with unentangled Gaussian states, performs only transformations generated by Hamiltonians that are quadratic in the canonical operators, and involves only measurements of canonical operators (including finite losses) and suitable operations conditioned on these measurements can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer.

id: quant-ph/0109048
title: Geometry of Quantum Theory: Weyl-Kahler Space
authors: S.C. Tiwari
comments: Published in Proceedings of the International Conference on "Geometry, Analysis and Applications", Banaras Hindu University, e-mail:vns_sctiwari@yahoo.com Edited by R.S. Pathak, World Scientific. 2000(pp 129-138)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109048
abstract: A new space namely the Weyl-Kahler is proposed to the quantum state space. Some of the physical consequences are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109049
title: Weak force detection with superposed coherent states
authors: W.J.Munro, K.Nemoto, G.J.Milburn, S.L.Braunstein
comments: 6 pages, no figures: New section added on entangled resources. Changes to discussions and conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 023819 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109049
abstract: We investigate the utility of non classical states of simple harmonic oscillators, particularly a superposition of coherent states, for sensitive force detection. We find that like squeezed states a superposition of coherent states allows displacement measurements at the Heisenberg limit. Entangling many superpositions of coherent states offers a significant advantage over a single mode superposition states with the same mean photon number.

id: quant-ph/0109050
title: "Extrinsic" and "intrinsic" data in quantum measurements: asymptotic convex decomposition of positive operator valued measures
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 17 pages, 3 included eps figures, revtex4. v2: revised with a more accessible introduction, and added references. Submitted. v3: part of appendix A had to be deleted as it turned out to be wrong. Happily, though, all other results remain unchanged
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 244(1):157-185, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109050
abstract: We study the problem of separating the data produced by a given quantum measurement (on states from a memoryless source which is unknown except for its average state), described by a positive operator valued measure (POVM), into a "meaningful" (intrinsic) and a "not meaningful" (extrinsic) part. We are able to give an asymptotically tight separation of this form, with the "intrinsic" data quantfied by the Holevo mutual information of a certain state ensemble associated to the POVM and the source, in a model that can be viewed as the asymptotic version of the convex decomposition of POVMs into extremal ones. This result is applied to a similar separation therorem for quantum instruments and quantum operations, in their Kraus form. Finally we comment on links to related subjects: we stress the difference between data and information (in particular by pointing out that information typically is strictly less than data), derive the Holevo bound from our main result, and look at its classical case: we show that this includes the solution to the problem of extrinsic/intrinsic data separation with a known source, then compare with the well-known notion of sufficient statistics. The result on decomposition of quantum operations is used to exhibit a new aspect of the concept of entropy exchange of an open dynamics. An appendix collects several estimates for mixed state fidelity and trace norm distance, that seem to be new, in particular a construction of canonical purification of mixed states that turns out to be valuable to analyze their fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0109051
title: A more efficient variant of the Oxford protocol
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: RevTeX 4, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109051
abstract: An alternative presentation of the Oxford purification protocol is obtained by using dynamical variables. I suggest to introduce the degree of separability as a purification parameter, where the purified state has a smaller degree of separability than the initial one. An improved version of the Oxford protocol is described, in which local unitary transformations optimize each step.

id: quant-ph/0109052
title: Entanglement induced by a single-mode heat environment
authors: M. S. Kim, J. Lee, D. Ahn, P. L. Knight
comments: 13pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 040101(Rapid Comm) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109052
abstract: A thermal field, which frequently appears in problems of decoherence, provides us with minimal information about the field. We study the interaction of the thermal field and a quantum system composed of two qubits and find that such a chaotic field with minimal information can nevertheless entangle the qubits which are prepared initially in a separable state. This simple model of a quantum register interacting with a noisy environment allows us to understand how memory of the environment affects the state of a quantum register.

id: quant-ph/0109053
title: Comment on "Evolution of a Quasi-Stationary State"
authors: Duane A. Dicus, Wayne W. Repko, Roy F. Schwitters, Todd M. Tinsley
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109053
abstract: Approximately forty years ago it was realized that the time development of decaying systems might not be precisely exponential. Rolf Winter (Phys. Rev. {\bf 123}, 1503 (1961)) analyzed the simplest nontrivial system - a particle tunneling out of a well formed by a wall and a delta-function. He calculated the probability current just outside the well and found irregular oscillations on a short time scale followed by an exponential decrease followed by more oscillations and finally by a decrease as a power of the time. We have reanalyzed this system, concentrating on the survival probability of the particle in the well rather than the probability current, and find a different short time behavior.

id: quant-ph/0109054
title: Communication and measurement with squeezed states
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 37 pages, 5 figures; to be published in "Quantum Squeezing" (P.D. Drummond and Z. Ficek; Springer-Verlag)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109054
abstract: The principles are elaborated which underlie the applications of general nonclassical states to communication and measurement systems. Relevant classical communication concepts are reviewed. Communication and measurement processes are compared. The possible advantages of nonclassical states in classical information transfer are assessed. The significance of novel quantum amplifiers and duplicators in communication is emphasized. A general approach is developed for determining the ultimate accuracy limit in quantum measurement systems. It is found that bandwidth or mode number is a most important parameter and ultrahigh precision measurement is possible in systems with a fixed energy but many modes. The problem of the standard quantum limit in monitoring the position of a free mass is also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0109055
title: How unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is possible
authors: H.P. Yuen
comments: 36 pages; made a few clarifications and elaborations in this revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109055
abstract: Bit commitment involves the submission of evidence from one party to another so that the evidence can be used to confirm a later revealed bit value by the first party, while the second party cannot determine the bit value from the evidence alone. It is widely believed that unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is impossible due to quantum entanglement cheating, which is codified in a general impossibility theorem. In this paper, the scope of this general impossibility proof is analyzed, and gaps are found. Two variants of a bit commitment scheme utilizing anonymous quantum states and decoy states are presented. In the first variant, the exact verifying measurement is independent of the committed bit value, thus the second party can make it before the first party opens, making possible an unconditional security proof based on no-cloning. In the second variant, the impossibility proof fails because quantum entanglement purification of a mixed state does not render the protocol determinate. Whether impossibility holds in this or similar protocols is an open question, although preliminary results already show that the impossibility proof cannot work as it stands.

id: quant-ph/0109056
title: Quantum entanglement without eigenvalue spectra:multipartite case
authors: Hao Chen
comments: 14 pages, no figure, the physical motivation of algebraic sets is explained in the revision, address changed in v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109056
abstract: We introduce algebriac sets in the products of complex projective spaces for multipartite mixed states, which are independent of their eigenvalues and only measure the "position" of their eigenvectors, as their non-local invariants (ie. remaining invariant after local untary transformations). These invariants are naturally arised from the physical consideration of checking multipartite mixed states by measuring them with multipartite separable pure states. The algebraic sets have to be the sum of linear subspaces if the multipartite mixed state is separable, and thus we give a new separability criterion of multipartite mixed states. A continuous family of 4-party mixed states, whose members are separable for any 2:2 cut and entangled for any 1:3 cut (thus bound entanglement if 4 parties are isolated), is constructed and studied from our invariants and separability criterion. Examples of LOCC-incomparable entangled tripartite pure states are given to show it is hopeless to characterize the entanglement properties of tripartite pure states by only using the eigenvalue speactra of their partial traces. We also prove that at least $n^2+n-1$ terms of separable pure states, which are "orthogonal" in some sence, are needed to write a generic pure state in $H_A^{n^2} \otimes H_B^{n^2} \otimes H_C^{n^2}$ as a linear combination of them.

id: quant-ph/0109057
title: Nonclassical character of statistical mixtures of the single-photon and vacuum optical states
authors: A. I. Lvovsky, J. H. Shapiro
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 65, 033830 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109057
abstract: We demonstrate, theoretically and experimentally, that statistical mixtures of the vacuum state |0> and the single-photon Fock state |1> are nonclassical according to the Vogel criterion (W. Vogel, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 1849 (2000)), regardless of the vacuum fraction. The ensembles are synthesized via conditional measurements on biphotons generated by means of parametric downconversion, and their quadrature statistics are measured using balanced homodyne detection. A comparative review of various quantum state nonclassicality criteria is presented.

id: quant-ph/0109058
title: Quantum collision states for positive charges in an octahedral cage
authors: R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 12 pages Latex, 5 eps figures
journal: Int. Journal of Hydrogen Energy 28 (2003) 125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109058
abstract: One-electron energy levels are studied for a configuration of two positive charges inside an octahedral cage, the vertices of the cage being occupied by atoms with a partially filled shell. Although ground states correspond to large separations, there are relatively low-lying states with large collision probabilities. Electromagnetic radiation fields used to excite the quantum collisional levels may provide a means to control nuclear reactions. However, given the scale of the excitation energies involved, this mechanism cannot provide an explanation for the unexplained ``cold fusion'' events.

id: quant-ph/0109059
title: de Broglie's pilot wave theory for the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: G Horton, C Dewdney
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109059
abstract: We illustrate, using a simple model, that in the usual formulation the time-component of the Klein-Gordon current is not generally positive definite even if one restricts allowed solutions to those with positive frequencies. Since in de Broglie's theory of particle trajectories the particle follows the current this leads to difficulties of interpretation, with the appearance of trajectories which are closed loops in space-time and velocities not limited from above. We show that at least this pathology can be avoided if one uses a covariant extension of the canonical formulation of relativistic point particle dynamics proposed by Gitman and Tyutin.

id: quant-ph/0109060
title: Quantum Operations, State Transformations and Probabilities
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX 4, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109060
abstract: In quantum operations, probabilities characterise both the degree of the success of a state transformation and, as density operator eigenvalues, the degree of mixedness of the final state. We give a unified treatment of pure-to-pure state transformations, covering both probabilistic and deterministic cases. We then discuss the role of majorization in describing the dynamics of mixing in quantum operations. The conditions for mixing enhancement for all initial states are derived. We show that mixing is monotonically decreasing for deterministic pure-to-pure transformations, and discuss the relationship between these transformations and deterministic LOCC entanglement transformations.

id: quant-ph/0109061
title: Spectral Structure of Quantum Line with a Defect
authors: Taksu Cheon, Tamas Fulop, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX, To appear in Proc. International Symposium on Foundation of Quantum Mechanics, Tokyo, Aug.26-30, 2001 (ISQM-Tokyo 01)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109061
abstract: We study the spectral properties of one-dimensional quantum wire with a single defect. We reveal the existence of the non-trivial topological structures in the spectral space of the system, which are behind the exotic quantum phenomena that have lately been found in the system.

id: quant-ph/0109062
title: Transformations of q-boson and q-fermion algebras
authors: P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 7 pages, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109062
abstract: We investigate the algebras satisfied by q-deformed boson and fermion oscillators, in particular the transformations of the algebra from one form to another. Based on a specific algebra proposed in recent literature, we show that the algebra of deformed fermions can be transformed to that of undeformed standard fermions. Furthermore we also show that the algebra of q-deformed fermions can be transformed to that of undeformed standard bosons.

id: quant-ph/0109063
title: Universal Simulation of Hamiltonians Using a Finite Set of Control Operations
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Martin Roetteler, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 2(2): 133-150, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109063
abstract: Any quantum system with a non-trivial Hamiltonian is able to simulate any other Hamiltonian evolution provided that a sufficiently large group of unitary control operations is available. We show that there exist finite groups with this property and present a sufficient condition in terms of group characters. We give examples of such groups in dimension 2 and 3. Furthermore, we show that it is possible to simulate an arbitrary bipartite interaction by a given one using such groups acting locally on the subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0109064
title: Universal simulation of Hamiltonian dynamics for qudits
authors: Michael A. Nielsen, Michael J. Bremner, Jennifer L. Dodd, Andrew M. Childs, Christopher M. Dawson
comments: 13 pages, an error in the "Pauli-Euclid-Gottesman Lemma" fixed, main results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022317 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109064
abstract: What interactions are sufficient to simulate arbitrary quantum dynamics in a composite quantum system? Dodd et al. (quant-ph/0106064) provided a partial solution to this problem in the form of an efficient algorithm to simulate any desired two-body Hamiltonian evolution using any fixed two-body entangling N-qubit Hamiltonian, and local unitaries. We extend this result to the case where the component systems have D dimensions. As a consequence we explain how universal quantum computation can be performed with any fixed two-body entangling N-qudit Hamiltonian, and local unitaries.

id: quant-ph/0109065
title: Fragility of Thermodynamically-Abnormal Ground States of Finite Systems
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Akira Shimizu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109065
abstract: We study a general macroscopic quantum system of a finite size, which will exhibit a symmetry breaking if the system size goes to infinity, when the system interacts with an environment. We evaluate the decoherence rates of the anomalously fluctuating vacuum (AFV), which is the symmetric ground state, and the pure phase vacua (PPVs). By making full use of the locality and huge degrees of freedom, we show that there can exist an interaction with an environment which makes the decoherence rate of the AFV anomalously fast, whereas PPVs are less fragile.

id: quant-ph/0109066
title: Quantum Encodings in Spin Systems and Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Hubert de Guise, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052316 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109066
abstract: We show that higher-dimensional versions of qubits, or qudits, can be encoded into spin systems and into harmonic oscillators, yielding important advantages for quantum computation. Whereas qubit-based quantum computation is adequate for analyses of quantum vs classical computation, in practice qubits are often realized in higher-dimensional systems by truncating all but two levels, thereby reducing the size of the precious Hilbert space. We develop natural qudit gates for universal quantum computation, and exploit the entire accessible Hilbert space. Mathematically, we give representations of the generalized Pauli group for qudits in coupled spin systems and harmonic oscillators, and include analyses of the qubit and the infinite-dimensional limits.

id: quant-ph/0109067
title: Quasi-uniform approximation for the radial Schr?dinger equation with power-law potentials
authors: V. V. Kudryashov, Yu. V. Vanne
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109067
abstract: The uniformly valid approximation to solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation with power-law potentials are obtained by means of the explicit summation of the leading constituent WKB series.

id: quant-ph/0109068
title: Improved Quantum Communication Complexity Bounds for Disjointness and Equality
authors: Peter Hoyer, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 11 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109068
abstract: We prove new bounds on the quantum communication complexity of the disjointness and equality problems. For the case of exact and non-deterministic protocols we show that these complexities are all equal to n+1, the previous best lower bound being n/2. We show this by improving a general bound for non-deterministic protocols of de Wolf. We also give an O(sqrt{n}c^{log^* n})-qubit bounded-error protocol for disjointness, modifying and improving the earlier O(sqrt{n}log n) protocol of Buhrman, Cleve, and Wigderson, and prove an Omega(sqrt{n}) lower bound for a large class of protocols that includes the BCW-protocol as well as our new protocol.

id: quant-ph/0109069
title: QED using the nilpotent formalism
authors: Peter Rowlands, J. P. Cullerne
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109069
abstract: The nilpotent formalism for the Dirac equation, outlined in previous papers,is applied to QED. It is shown that what is usually described as 'renormalization' is effectively a statement of the fact that the nilpotent formulation is automatically second quantized and constrains the field into producing finite values for fundamental quantities.

id: quant-ph/0109070
title: On Quantum Versions of the Yao Principle
authors: Mart de Graaf, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 12 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109070
abstract: The classical Yao principle states that the complexity R_epsilon(f) of an optimal randomized algorithm for a function f with success probability 1-epsilon equals the complexity max_mu D_epsilon^mu(f) of an optimal deterministic algorithm for f that is correct on a fraction 1-epsilon of the inputs, weighed according to the hardest distribution mu over the inputs. In this paper we investigate to what extent such a principle holds for quantum algorithms. We propose two natural candidate quantum Yao principles, a ``weak'' and a ``strong'' one. For both principles, we prove that the quantum bounded-error complexity is a lower bound on the quantum analogues of max mu D_epsilon^mu(f). We then prove that equality cannot be obtained for the ``strong'' version, by exhibiting an exponential gap. On the other hand, as a positive result we prove that the ``weak'' version holds up to a constant factor for the query complexity of all symmetric Boolean functions

id: quant-ph/0109071
title: Quantum key distribution using non-classical photon number correlations in macroscopic light pulses
authors: A.C. Funk, M.G. Raymer
comments: Modifications:added new eavesdropping attack, added more references Submitted to Physical Review A afunk@darkwing.uoregon.edu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109071
abstract: We propose a new scheme for quantum key distribution using macroscopic non-classical pulses of light having of the order 10^6 photons per pulse. Sub-shot-noise quantum correlation between the two polarization modes in a pulse gives the necessary sensitivity to eavesdropping that ensures the security of the protocol. We consider pulses of two-mode squeezed light generated by a type-II seeded parametric amplification process. We analyze the security of the system in terms of the effect of an eavesdropper on the bit error rates for the legitimate parties in the key distribution system. We also consider the effects of imperfect detectors and lossy channels on the security of the scheme.

id: quant-ph/0109072
title: Tomography and spectroscopy as quantum computations
authors: Cesar Miquel, Juan Pablo Paz, Marcos Saraceno, Emmanuel Knill, Raymond Laflamme, Camille Negrevergne
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109072
abstract: Determining the state of a system and measuring properties of its evolution are two of the most important tasks a physicist faces. For the first purpose one can use tomography, a method that after subjecting the system to a number of experiments determines all independent elements of the density matrix. For the second task, one can resort to spectroscopy, a set of techniques used to determine the spectrum of eigenvalues of the evolution operator. In this letter, we show that tomography and spectroscopy can be naturally interpreted as dual forms of quantum computation. We show how to adapt the simplest case of the well-known phase estimation quantum algorithm to perform both tasks, giving it a natural interpretation as a simulated scattering experiment. We show how this algorithm can be used to implement an interesting form of tomography by performing a direct measurement of the Wigner function of a quantum system. We present results of such measurements performed on a system of three qubits using liquid state NMR quantum computation techniques in a sample of trichloroethylene. Remarkable analogies with other experiments are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109073
title: A Note on Invariants and Entanglements
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: Latex, 11 pages
journal: J.Opt.B Quant.Semiclass.Opt. B3 (2001) 223-227
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109073
abstract: The quantum entanglements are studied in terms of the invariants under local unitary transformations. A generalized formula of concurrence for $N$-dimensional quantum systems is presented. This generalized concurrence has potential applications in studying separability and calculating entanglement of formation for high dimensional mixed quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0109074
title: Generic Quantum Block Compression
authors: John Langford
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109074
abstract: A generic approach for compiling any classical block compression algorithm into a quantum block compression algorithm is presented. Using this technique, compression asymptoticaly approaching the von Neumann entropy of a qubit source can be achieved. The automatically compiled algorithms are competitive (in time and space complexity) with hand constructed quantum block compression algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0109075
title: Quantum, classical and semiclassical analyses of photon statistics in harmonic generation
authors: Jiri Bajer, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 21+1 pages, 8 figures; to appear in: "Modern Nonlinear Optics", ed. M. W. Evans, Advances in Chemical Physics, Vol. 119 (Wiley, New York, 2001)
journal: Advances in Chemical Physics, Vol. 119 (Wiley, New York, 2001), pp. 493-515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109075
abstract: In this review, we compare different descriptions of photon-number statistics in harmonic generation processes within quantum, classical and semiclassical approaches. First, we study the exact quantum evolution of the harmonic generation by applying numerical methods including those of Hamiltonian diagonalization and global characteristics. We show explicitly that the harmonic generations can indeed serve as a source of nonclassical light. Then, we demonstrate that the quasi-stationary sub-Poissonian light can be generated in these quantum processes under conditions corresponding to the so-called no-energy-transfer regime known in classical nonlinear optics. By applying method of classical trajectories, we demonstrate that the analytical predictions of the Fano factors are in good agreement with the quantum results. On comparing second and higher harmonic generations in the no-energy-transfer regime, we show that the highest noise reduction is achieved in third-harmonic generation with the Fano-factor of the third harmonic equal to 13/16.

id: quant-ph/0109076
title: Implementing the quantum random walk
authors: B. C. Travaglione, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (1 large)
journal: Physical Review A, Vol 65, 032310 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109076
abstract: Recently, several groups have investigated quantum analogues of random walk algorithms, both on a line and on a circle. It has been found that the quantum versions have markedly different features to the classical versions. Namely, the variance on the line, and the mixing time on the circle increase quadratically faster in the quantum versions as compared to the classical versions. Here, we propose a scheme to implement the quantum random walk on a line and on a circle in an ion trap quantum computer. With current ion trap technology, the number of steps that could be experimentally implemented will be relatively small. However, we show how the enhanced features of these walks could be observed experimentally. In the limit of strong decoherence, the quantum random walk tends to the classical random walk. By measuring the degree to which the walk remains `quantum', this algorithm could serve as an important benchmarking protocol for ion trap quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0109077
title: Efficient Quantum Computation using Coherent States
authors: H. Jeong, M. S. Kim
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, extended and modified (in print, PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 042305 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109077
abstract: Universal quantum computation using optical coherent states is studied. A teleportation scheme for a coherent-state qubit is developed and applied to gate operations. This scheme is shown to be robust to detection inefficiency.

id: quant-ph/0109078
title: Qubits as Parafermions
authors: L.-A. Wu, D.A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, no figures. v3: This version to appear in J. Math. Phys., special issue on quantum computation
journal: special issue on quantum computation of J. Math. Phys. 43, 4506 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109078
abstract: Qubits are neither fermions nor bosons. A Fock space description of qubits leads to a mapping from qubits to parafermions: particles with a hybrid boson-fermion quantum statistics. We study this mapping in detail, and use it to provide a classification of the algebras of operators acting on qubits. These algebras in turn classify the universality of different classes of physically relevant qubit-qubit interaction Hamiltonians. The mapping is further used to elucidate the connections between qubits, bosons, and fermions. These connections allow us to share universality results between the different particle types. Finally, we use the mapping to study the quantum computational power of certain anisotropic exchange Hamiltonians. In particular, we prove that the XY model with nearest-neighbor interactions only is not computationally universal. We also generalize previous results about universal quantum computation with encoded qubits to codes with higher rates.

id: quant-ph/0109079
title: Qubit Channels Can Require More Than Two Inputs to Achieve Capacity
authors: Christopher King, Michael Nathanson, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: RevTex, 5 page, 4 figuress
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 057901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109079
abstract: We give examples of qubit channels that require three input states in order to achieve the Holevo capacity.

id: quant-ph/0109080
title: Linear optics and projective measurements alone suffice to create large-photon-number path entanglement
authors: Hwang Lee, Pieter Kok, Nicolas J. Cerf, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 030101(R) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109080
abstract: We propose a method for preparing maximal path entanglement with a definite photon number N, larger than two, using projective measurements. In contrast with the previously known schemes, our method uses only linear optics. Specifically, we exhibit a way of generating four-photon, path-entangled states of the form |4,0> + |0,4>, using only four beam splitters and two detectors. These states are of major interest as a resource for quantum interferometric sensors as well as for optical quantum lithography and quantum holography.

id: quant-ph/0109081
title: Degree of entanglement for two qubits
authors: Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 050101(R) (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109081
abstract: We demonstrate that any pure bipartite state of two qubits may be decomposed into a superposition of a maximally entangled state and an orthogonal factorizable one. Although there are many such decompositions, the weights of the two superposed states are, remarkably, unique. We propose a measure of entanglement based on this decomposition. We also demonstrate that this measure is connected to three measures of entanglement previously set forth: maximal violation of Bell's inequality, concurrence, and two-particle visibility.

id: quant-ph/0109082
title: Decoherence of anomalously-fluctuating states of finite macroscopic systems
authors: Akira Shimizu, Takayuki Miyadera, Akihisa Ukena
comments: 4 pages, no figure Proc. 7th Int. Symp. Foundations of Quantum Mechanics (ISQM-Tokyo '01) (to be published from World Scientific)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109082
abstract: In quantum systems of a macroscopic size V, such as interacting many particles and quantum computers with many qubits, there exist pure states such that fluctuations of some intensive operator A is anomalously large, <\delta A^2> = O(V^0), which is much larger than that assumed in thermodynamics, <\delta A^2> = O(1/V). By making full use of the locality, we show, starting from Hamiltonians of macroscopic degrees of freedom, that such states decohere at anomalously fast rates when they are weakly perturbed from environments.

id: quant-ph/0109083
title: Quantum computation with trapped polar molecules
authors: D. DeMille
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX 4, 2 figures. Edited for length and converted to RevTeX, but no substantial changes from earlier pdf version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109083
abstract: We propose a novel physical realization of a quantum computer. The qubits are electric dipole moments of ultracold diatomic molecules, oriented along or against an external electric field. Individual molecules are held in a 1-D trap array, with an electric field gradient allowing spectroscopic addressing of each site. Bits are coupled via the electric dipole-dipole interaction. Using technologies similar to those already demonstrated, this design can plausibly lead to a quantum computer with $\gtrsim 10^4$ qubits, which can perform $\sim 10^5$ CNOT gates in the anticipated decoherence time of $\sim 5$ s.

id: quant-ph/0109084
title: Continuous variable quantum cryptography using coherent states
authors: Frdric Grosshans, Philippe Grangier
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. In v2 minor rewriting for clarity, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 057902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109084
abstract: We propose several methods for quantum key distribution (QKD) based upon the generation and transmission of random distributions of coherent or squeezed states, and we show that they are are secure against individual eavesdropping attacks. These protocols require that the transmission of the optical line between Alice and Bob is larger than 50 %, but they do not rely on "non-classical" features such as squeezing. Their security is a direct consequence of the no-cloning theorem, that limits the signal to noise ratio of possible quantum measurements on the transmission line. Our approach can also be used for evaluating various QKD protocols using light with gaussian statistics.

id: quant-ph/0109085
title: Satellite potentials for hypergeometric Natanzon potentials
authors: S Codriansky, S Salamo
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109085
abstract: As a result of the so(2,1) of the hypergeometric Natanzon potential a set of potentials related to the given one is determined. The set arises as a result of the action of the so(2,1) generators.

id: quant-ph/0109086
title: Coherent states on spheres
authors: Brian C. Hall, Jeffrey J. Mitchell
comments: Revised version. Submitted to J. Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 1211-1236; Erratum-ibid. 46 (2005) 059901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109086
abstract: We describe a family of coherent states and an associated resolution of the identity for a quantum particle whose classical configuration space is the d-dimensional sphere S^d. The coherent states are labeled by points in the associated phase space T*(S^d). These coherent states are NOT of Perelomov type but rather are constructed as the eigenvectors of suitably defined annihilation operators. We describe as well the Segal-Bargmann representation for the system, the associated unitary Segal-Bargmann transform, and a natural inversion formula. Although many of these results are in principle special cases of the results of B. Hall and M. Stenzel, we give here a substantially different description based on ideas of T. Thiemann and of K. Kowalski and J. Rembielinski. All of these results can be generalized to a system whose configuration space is an arbitrary compact symmetric space. We focus on the sphere case in order to be able to carry out the calculations in a self-contained and explicit way.

id: quant-ph/0109087
title: Structured quantum search in NP-complete problems using the cumulative density of states
authors: Keith Kastella, Richard Freeling
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Revised to include numerical example. Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109087
abstract: In the multitarget Grover algorithm, we are given an unstructured N-element list of objects S_i containing a T-element subset tau and function f, called an oracle, such that f(S_i)=1 if S_i is in tau, otherwise f(S_i) = 0. By using quantum parallelism, an element of tau can be retrieved in O(sqrt(N/T)) steps, compared to O(N/T) for any classical algorithm. It is shown here that in combinatorial optimization problems with N=4^M, the density of states can be used in conjunction with the multitarget Grover algorithm to construct a sequence of oracles that structure the search so that the optimum state is obtained with certainty in O(log(N)) steps.

id: quant-ph/0109088
title: Simulating Hamiltonians in Quantum Networks: Efficient Schemes and Complexity Bounds
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Martin Roetteler, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 042309 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109088
abstract: We address the problem of simulating pair-interaction Hamiltonians in n node quantum networks where the subsystems have arbitrary, possibly different, dimensions. We show that any pair-interaction can be used to simulate any other by applying sequences of appropriate local control sequences. Efficient schemes for decoupling and time reversal can be constructed from orthogonal arrays. Conditions on time optimal simulation are formulated in terms of spectral majorization of matrices characterizing the coupling parameters. Moreover, we consider a specific system of n harmonic oscillators with bilinear interaction. In this case, decoupling can efficiently be achieved using the combinatorial concept of difference schemes. For this type of interactions we present optimal schemes for inversion.

id: quant-ph/0109089
title: Separability of Rank Two Quantum States
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Debashish Goswami
comments: Latex, 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 286 (2001)91-96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109089
abstract: Explicit sufficient and necessary conditions for separability of higher dimensional quantum systems with rank two density matrices are given. A nonseparability inequality is also presented, for the case where one of the eigenvectors corresponding to nonzero eigenvalues is a maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0109090
title: Resonant and off-resonant transients in electromagnetically induced transparency: turn-on and turn-off dynamics
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, T. B. Smith, S. R. de Echaniz, A. V. Durrant, J. P. Marangos, D. M. Segal, J. A. Vaccaro
comments: 19 Pages, 9 Figures, 1 in colour. RevTex 4.0 Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109090
abstract: This paper presents a wide-ranging theoretical and experimental study of non-adiabatic transient phenomena in a $\Lambda $ EIT system when a strong coupling field is rapidly switched on or off. The theoretical treatment uses a Laplace transform approach to solve the time-dependent density matrix equation. The experiments are carried out in a Rb$^{87}$ MOT. The results show transient probe gain in parameter regions not previously studied, and provide insight into the transition dynamics between bare and dressed states.

id: quant-ph/0109091
title: Vacuum fluctuation force on a rigid Casimir cavity in a gravitational field
authors: Enrico Calloni, Luciano Di Fiore, Giampiero Esposito, Leopoldo Milano, Luigi Rosa
comments: 13 pages, Latex. In the revised version, the presentation has been improved
journal: Phys.Lett. A297 (2002) 328-333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109091
abstract: We discuss the possibility of verifying the equivalence principle for the zero-point energy of quantum electrodynamics, by evaluating the force, produced by vacuum fluctuations, acting on a rigid Casimir cavity in a weak gravitational field. The resulting force has opposite direction with respect to the gravitational acceleration; the order of magnitude for a multi-layer cavity configuration is derived and experimental feasibility is discussed, taking into account current technological resources.

id: quant-ph/0109092
title: The Feynman Propagator from a Single Path
authors: G. N. Ord, J. A. Gualtieri
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 89 (2002) 250403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109092
abstract: We show that it is possible to construct the Feynman Propagator in one dimension, without quantization, from a single continuous space-time path.

id: quant-ph/0109093
title: Modified de Broglie-Bohm approach to quantum mechanics
authors: Moncy V. John
comments: Revised (with minor changes) and accepted version for publication
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.15:329,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109093
abstract: A modified de Broglie-Bohm (dBB) approach to quantum mechanics is presented. In this new deterministic theory, which uses complex methods in an intermediate step, the problem of zero velocity for bound states encountered in the dBB formulation does not appear. Also this approach is equivalent to standard quantum mechanics when averages of dynamical variables like position, momentum and energy are taken.

id: quant-ph/0109094
title: Quantum stochastic approach to the description of quantum measurements
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 37 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34 (2001), 7639-7675
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109094
abstract: In the present paper we consider the problem of description of an arbitrary generalized quantum measurement with outcomes in a measurable space. Analyzing the unitary invariants of a measuring process, we present the most general form of a possible integral representation of an instrument, which differs from the representations of an instrument available in the mathematical and physical literature. We introduce the notion of a quantum stochastic representation of an instrument, whose elements are wholly determined by the unitary invariants of a measuring process. We show that the description of a generalized direct quantum measurement can be considered in the frame of a new general approach, which we call the quantum stochastic approach (QSA), based on the notion of a family of quantum stochastic evolution operators, satisfying the orthonormality relation and describing the conditional evolution of a quantum system under a measurement. The QSA allows to give: a) the complete statistical description of any generalized direct quantum measurement (a POV measure and a family of posterior states); b) the complete description in a Hilbert space of the stochastic behaviour of a quantum system under a measurement in the sense of specification of the probabilistic transition law governing the change from the initial state of a quantum system to a final one under a single measurement; c) to formalize the consideration of all possible types of quantum measurements. For measurements continuous in time the QSA allows, in particular, to define in the most general case (without assuming any Markov property) the notion of posterior pure state trajectories (quantum trajectories) and to give their probabilistic treatment.

id: quant-ph/0109095
title: Applications of the Quon Algebra: 3-D Harmonic Oscillator and the Rotor Model
authors: S.S. Avancini, J.R. Marinelli, C. E. de O. Rodrigues
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A297 (2002) 137-145
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109095
abstract: In this work we present a method to build in a systematic way a many-body quon basis state. In particular, we show a closed expression for a given number N of quons, restricted to the permutational symmetric subspace, which belongs to the whole quonic space. The method is applied to two simple problems: the three-dimensional harmonic oscillator and the rotor model and compared to previous quantum algebra results. The differences obtained and possible future applications are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109096
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Continuous Variables in Optics
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: To appear in "Quantum Information Theory with Continuous Variables", Ed. S.L.Braunstein and A.K.Pati
journal: Continuous Variable Quantum Information, Ed S.Braunstein and A.Pati, (Kluwer Academic Publishers, The Netherlands, 2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109096
abstract: We discuss a quantum key distribution scheme in which small phase and amplitude modulations of quantum limited, CW light beams carry the key information. We identify universal constraints on the level of shared information between the intended receiver (Bob) and any eavesdropper (Eve) and use this to make a general evaluation of the security and efficiency of the scheme. We show that a scheme based on coherent light offers competitive secret key bit transmission rates.

id: quant-ph/0109097
title: Storing unitary operators in quantum states
authors: Jaehyun Kim, Yongwook Cheong, Jae-Seung Lee, Soonchil Lee
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, errors in Eq. (8) and Fig. 3 are fixed, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 65, 012302 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109097
abstract: We present a scheme to store unitary operators with self-inverse generators in quantum states and a general circuit to retrieve them with definite success probability. The continuous variable of the operator is stored in a single-qubit state and the information about the kind of the operator is stored in classical states with finite dimension. The probability of successful retrieval is always 1/2 irrespective of the kind of the operator, which is proved to be maximum. In case of failure, the result can be corrected with additional quantum states. The retrieving circuit is almost as simple as that which handles only the single-qubit rotations and CNOT as the basic operations. An interactive way to transfer quantum dynamics, that is, to distribute naturally copy-protected programs for quantum computers is also presented using this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0109098
title: Quantum machine language and quantum computation with Josephson junctions
authors: K. Ch. Chatzisavvas, C. Daskaloyannis, C. P. Panos
comments: 11 pages + 2 eps figure files, RevTeX4
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, v.4, No2, p.93 (2003);Proceedings of the XXII Solvay Conference on Physics-The Physics of Communication, World Scientific Publishing, p.589 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109098
abstract: An implementation method of a gate in a quantum computer is studied in terms of a finite number of steps evolving in time according to a finite number of basic Hamiltonians, which are controlled by on-off switches. As a working example, the case of a particular implementation of the two qubit computer employing a simple system of two coupled Josephson junctions is considered. The binary values of the switches together with the time durations of the steps constitute the quantum machine language of the system.

id: quant-ph/0109099
title: Separability and the stella octangula
authors: AAsa Ericsson
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109099
abstract: A geometrical picture of separability of 2 x 2 composite quantum systems, showing the region of separable density matrices in the space of hermitian matrices, is given. It rests on the criterion of separability given by Peres, and it is an extension of the ``Horodecki diagram'' and the ``stella octangula'' described by Aravind.

id: quant-ph/0109100
title: Quantum interference in optical fields and atomic radiation
authors: Z. Ficek, S. Swain
comments: To be published in Journal of Modern Optics Special Issue on Quantum Interference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109100
abstract: We discuss the connection between quantum interference effects in optical beams and radiation fields emitted from atomic systems. We illustrate this connection by a study of the first- and second-order correlation functions of optical fields and atomic dipole moments. We explore the role of correlations between the emitting systems and present examples of practical methods to implement two systems with non-orthogonal dipole moments. We also derive general conditions for quantum interference in a two-atom system and for a control of spontaneous emission. The relation between population trapping and dark states is also discussed. Moreover, we present quantum dressed-atom models of cancellation of spontaneous emission, amplification on dark transitions, fluorescence quenching and coherent population trapping.

id: quant-ph/0109101
title: On the Quantum Black-Box Complexity of Majority
authors: Thomas Hayes, Samuel Kutin, Dieter van Melkebeek
comments: 22 pages, to appear in Algorithmica, v3: tail laws in appendix proved in a more elegant way than in the journal version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109101
abstract: We describe a quantum black-box network computing the majority of N bits with zero-sided error eps using only 2N/3 + O(sqrt{N (log log N + log 1/eps)}) queries: the algorithm returns the correct answer with probability at least 1 - eps, and "I don't know" otherwise. Our algorithm is given as a randomized "XOR decision tree" for which the number of queries on any input is strongly concentrated around a value of at most 2N/3. We provide a nearly matching lower bound of 2N/3 - O(sqrt(N)) on the expected number of queries on a worst-case input in the randomized XOR decision tree model with zero-sided error o(1). Any classical randomized decision tree computing the majority on N bits with zero-sided error 1/2 has cost N.

id: quant-ph/0109102
title: Robustness of Multi-Party Entanglement
authors: Christoph Simon, Julia Kempe
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 65 (5), 052327 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109102
abstract: How common is large-scale entanglement in nature? As a first step towards addressing this question, we study the robustness of multi-party entanglement under local decoherence, modeled by partially depolarizing channels acting independently on each subsystem. Surprisingly, we find that n-qubit GHZ entanglement can stand more than 55 % local depolarization in the limit of n going to infinity, and that GHZ states are more robust than other generic states of 3 and 4 qubits. We also study spin-squeezed states in the limit n going to infinity and find that they too can stand considerable local depolarization.

id: quant-ph/0109103
title: An integral version of Shor's factoring algorithm
authors: Felix M Lev
comments: LaTex, 27 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109103
abstract: We consider a version of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm such that the quantum Fourier transform is replaced by an extremely simple one where decomposition coefficients take only the values of $1,i,-1,-i$. In numerous calculations which have been carried out so far, our algorithm has been surprisingly stable and never failed. There are numerical indications that the probability of period finding given by the algorithm is a slowly decreasing function of the number to be factorized and is typically less than in Shor's algorithm. On the other hand, quantum computer (QC), capable of implementing our algorithm, will require a much less amount of resources and will be much less error-sensitive than standard QC. We also propose a modification of Coppersmith' Approximate Fast Fourier Transform. The numerical results show that the probability is signifacantly amplified even in the first post integral approximation. Our algorithm can be very useful at early stages of development of quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0109104
title: A Comparison of Quantum Oracles
authors: Elham Kashefi, Adrian Kent, Vlatko Vedral, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; Final version, with an extended discussion of oracle inverses. To appear in Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 050304 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109104
abstract: A standard quantum oracle $S_f$ for a general function $f: Z_N \to Z_N $ is defined to act on two input states and return two outputs, with inputs $\ket{i}$ and $\ket{j}$ ($i,j \in Z_N $) returning outputs $\ket{i}$ and $\ket{j \oplus f(i)}$. However, if $f$ is known to be a one-to-one function, a simpler oracle, $M_f$, which returns $\ket{f(i)}$ given $\ket{i}$, can also be defined. We consider the relative strengths of these oracles. We define a simple promise problem which minimal quantum oracles can solve exponentially faster than classical oracles, via an algorithm which cannot be naively adapted to standard quantum oracles. We show that $S_f$ can be constructed by invoking $M_f$ and $(M_f)^{-1}$ once each, while $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$ invocations of $S_f$ and/or $(S_f)^{-1}$ are required to construct $M_f$.

id: quant-ph/0109105
title: Interaction-Free Measurement applied to Quantum Computation: a New CNOT Gate
authors: A. A. Methot, Kai Wicker
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109105
abstract: In this paper, we propose a new direction of research for the realization of the quantum controlled-not gate based on a technique called ``interaction-free measurement'', where qubits are two-level atoms (or ions) and information is mediated from one qubit to another by lasers in superpositions of $\pi$ and $2\pi$ pulses. We investigate the advantages and limitations of such a gate and discuss possible applicability.

id: quant-ph/0109106
title: Coherent Superposition States as Quantum Rulers
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109106
abstract: We explore the sensitivity of an interferometer based on a quantum circuit for coherent states. We show that its sensitivity is at the Heisenberg limit. Moreover we show that this arrangement can measure very small length intervals.

id: quant-ph/0109107
title: Quantum coherence generated by interference-induced state selectiveness
authors: Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, to be published in Journal of Modern Optics' special issue on quantum interference
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 49, 43 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109107
abstract: The relations between quantum coherence and quantum interference are discussed. A general method for generation of quantum coherence through interference-induced state selection is introduced and then applied to `simple' atomic systems under two-photon transitions, with applications in quantum optics and laser cooling.

id: quant-ph/0109108
title: Coherent States and Geometric Phases in Calogero-Sutherland Model
authors: Dae-Yup Song, JeongHyeong Park
comments: To appear in the Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 259-268
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109108
abstract: Exact coherent states in the Calogero-Sutherland models (of time-dependent parameters) which describe identical harmonic oscillators interacting through inverse-square potentials are constructed, in terms of the classical solutions of a harmonic oscillator. For quasi-periodic coherent states of the time-periodic systems, geometric phases are evaluated. For the $A_{N-1}$ Calogero-Sutherland model, the phase is calculated for a general coherent state. The phases for other models are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0109109
title: Geometric Strategy for the Optimal Quantum Search
authors: Akimasa Miyake, Miki Wadati
comments: revtex, 10 pages, 7 eps figures, uses psfrag package
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 042317 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109109
abstract: We explore quantum search from the geometric viewpoint of a complex projective space $CP$, a space of rays. First, we show that the optimal quantum search can be geometrically identified with the shortest path along the geodesic joining a target state, an element of the computational basis, and such an initial state as overlaps equally, up to phases, with all the elements of the computational basis. Second, we calculate the entanglement through the algorithm for any number of qubits $n$ as the minimum Fubini-Study distance to the submanifold formed by separable states in Segre embedding, and find that entanglement is used almost maximally for large $n$. The computational time seems to be optimized by the dynamics as the geodesic, running across entangled states away from the submanifold of separable states, rather than the amount of entanglement itself.

id: quant-ph/0109110
title: Analytic stochastic treatment of a nonlinear quantum model with negative diffusion
authors: Roberta Zambrini, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053810 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109110
abstract: We apply a proposal of Yuen and Tombesi, for treating stochastic problems with negative diffusion, to the analytically soluble problem of the single-mode anharmonic oscillator. We find that the associated stochastic realizations include divergent trajectories. It is possible, however, to solve the stochastic problem exactly, but the averaging must be performed with great care.

id: quant-ph/0109111
title: Single and double slit scattering of wave packets
authors: G. K?lbermann
comments: Latex format, 35 pages, 15 eps (some colored) figures
journal: J.Phys.A35:4599-4616,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109111
abstract: The scattering of wave packets from a single slit and a double slit with the Schr\"odinger equation, is studied numerically and theoretically. The phenomenon of diffraction of wave packets in space and time in the backward region, previously found for barriers and wells, is encountered here also. A new phenomenon of forward diffraction that occurs only for packets thiner than the slit, or slits, is calculated numerically as well as, in a theoretical approximation to the problem. This diffraction occurs at the opposite end of the usual diffraction phenomena with monochromatic waves.

id: quant-ph/0109112
title: Characterisation of an entanglement-free evolution
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 21 pages (Latex) replaced the 2 october by an improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109112
abstract: Two or more quantum systems are said to be in an entangled or non-factorisable state if their joint (supposedly pure) wave-function is not expressible as a product of individual wave functions but is instead a superposition of product states. It is only when the systems are in a factorisable state that they can be considered to be separated (in the sense of Bell). We show that whenever two quantum systems interact with each other, it is impossible that all factorisable states remain factorisable during the interaction unless the full Hamiltonian does not couple these systems so to say unless they do not really interact. We also present certain conditions under which particular factorisable states remain factorisable although they represent a bipartite system whose components mutually interact and pay a particular attention to the case where the two particles interact mutually through an action at a distance in the three dimensional space.

id: quant-ph/0109113
title: Path Integration on a Quantum Computer
authors: J. F. Traub, H. Wozniakowski
comments: 24 pages; Revision of 9/2/02 includes a query lower bound and the upper bound of $4.22 \e^{-1}$ to compute an $\e$-approximation to a path integral
journal: Quantum Information Processing 1(5), 365-388, Oct. 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109113
abstract: We study path integration on a quantum computer that performs quantum summation. We assume that the measure of path integration is Gaussian, with the eigenvalues of its covariance operator of order j^{-k} with k>1. For the Wiener measure occurring in many applications we have k=2. We want to compute an $\e$-approximation to path integrals whose integrands are at least Lipschitz. We prove: 1. Path integration on a quantum computer is tractable. 2. Path integration on a quantum computer can be solved roughly $\e^{-1}$ times faster than on a classical computer using randomization, and exponentially faster than on a classical computer with a worst case assurance. 3.The number of quantum queries is the square root of the number of function values needed on a classical computer using randomization. More precisely, the number of quantum queries is at most $4.22 \e^{-1}$. Furthermore, a lower bound is obtained for the minimal number of quantum queries which shows that this bound cannot be significantly improved. 4.The number of qubits is polynomial in $\e^{-1}$. Furthermore, for the Wiener measure the degree is 2 for Lipschitz functions, and the degree is 1 for smoother integrands.

id: quant-ph/0109114
title: Exponential lower bound on the highest fidelity achievable by quantum error-correcting codes
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: Ver.4. In vers.1--3, I claimed Theorem 1 for general quantum channels. Now I claim this only for a slight generalization of depolarizing channel in this paper because Lemma 2 in vers.1--3 was wrong; the original general statement is proved in quant-ph/0112103. Ver.5. Text sectionalized. Appeared in PRA. The PRA article is typographically slightly crude: The LaTeX symbol star, used as superscripts, was capriciously replaced by the asterisk in several places after my proof reading
journal: Physical Review A, vol.65, 052305, May 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109114
abstract: On a class of memoryless quantum channels which includes the depolarizing channel, the highest fidelity of quantum error-correcting codes of length n and rate R is proven to be lower bounded by 1-exp[-nE(R)+o(n)] for some function E(R). The E(R) is positive below some threshold R', which implies R' is a lower bound on the quantum capacity.

id: quant-ph/0109115
title: Necessary conditions for the efficient simulation of Hamiltonians using local unitary operations
authors: Hao Chen
comments: published version
journal: Quantum Information and Compuation, Vol.3,no.3(2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109115
abstract: We study necessary conditions for the efficient simulation of both bipartite and multipartite Hamiltonians, which are independent of the eigenvalues and based on the algebraic-geometric invariants introduced in [1-2]. Our results indicate that the problem of efficient simulation of Hamiltonians for arbitrary and multipartite quantum systems cannot be described by using only eigenvalues, unlike that in the two-qubit case.

id: quant-ph/0109116
title: From Schr?dinger's Equation to the Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Lov K. Grover
comments: Postscript file, 16 pages. This is a pedagogical article describing the invention of the quantum search algorithm. It appeared in the July, 2001 issue of American Journal of Physics (AJP)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109116
abstract: The quantum search algorithm is a technique for searching N possibilities in only sqrt(N) steps. Although the algorithm itself is widely known, not so well known is the series of steps that first led to it, these are quite different from any of the generally known forms of the algorithm. This paper describes these steps, which start by discretizing Schr\"odinger's equation. This paper also provides a self-contained introduction to the quantum search algorithm from a new perspective.

id: quant-ph/0109117
title: Narrow Spectral Feature In Resonance Fluorescence With A Single Monochromatic Laser Field
authors: Joerg Evers, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures, extension of the spring model
journal: J. Evers and C. H. Keitel, Phys. Rev. A 65, 033813 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109117
abstract: We describe the resonance fluorescence spectrum of an atomic three-level system where two of the states are coupled by a single monochromatic laser field. The influence of the third energy level, which interacts with the two laser-coupled states only via radiative decays, is studied in detail. For a suitable choice of parameters, this system gives rise to a very narrow structure at the laser frequency in the fluorescence spectrum which is not present in the spectrum of a two-level atom. We find those parameter ranges by a numerical analysis and use the results to derive analytical expressions for the additional narrow peak. We also derive an exact expression for the peak intensity under the assumption that a random telegraph model is applicable to the system. This model and a simple spring model are then used to describe the physical origins of the additional peak. Using these results, we explain the connection between our system, a three-level system in V-configuration where both transitions are laser driven, and a related experiment which was recently reported.

id: quant-ph/0109118
title: Casimir force under the influence of real conditions
authors: B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A63, N19, 3291-3308, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109118
abstract: The Casimir force is calculated analytically for configurations of two parallel plates and a spherical lens (sphere) above a plate with account of nonzero temperature, finite conductivity of the boundary metal and surface roughness. The permittivity of the metal is described by the plasma model. It is proved that in case of the plasma model the scattering formalism of quantum field theory in Matsubara formulation underlying Lifshitz formula is well defined and no modifications are needed concerning the zero-frequency contribution. The temperature correction to the Casimir force is found completely with respect to temperature and perturbatively (up to the second order in the relative penetration depth of electromagnetic zero-point oscillations into the metal) with respect to finite conductivity. The asymptotics of low and high temperatures are presented and contributions of longitudinal and perpendicular modes are determined separately. Serving as an example, aluminium test bodies are considered showing good agreement between the obtained analytical results and previously performed numerical computations. The roughness correction is formally included and formulas are given permitting to calculate the Casimir force under the influence of all relevant factors.

id: quant-ph/0109119
title: Semiclassical stability analysis of a two-photon laser including spatial variation of the cavity field
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, Abdel-Shafy F. Obada
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 15,385-391 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109119
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a two-photon laser under conditions where the spatial variation of the cavity field along the cavity axis is important. Main attention is paid to linear stability analysis and numerical investigation of a two-photon laser for the Maxwell-Bloch equations. The model assumes pumping to the upper state of the two-photon transition. We consider the Maxwell-Bloch equations on the basis of which we study the stability analysis of the steady state of the system. The system is taken to be contained in a ring-laser cavity. Asymptotic expansion of the eigenvalue and analytic information are obtained in some realistic limits, such as very large reflectivity, very small cavity losses, or very small population relaxation rate. The results are illustrated with an application to a specific atomic system (Potassium) as an amplifying medium.

id: quant-ph/0109120
title: Comment on "Classical interventions in quantum systems II. Relativistic invariance"
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A64:066101,2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109120
abstract: In a recent paper [Phys. Rev. A 61, 022117 (2000)], quant-ph/9906034, A. Peres argued that quantum mechanics is consistent with special relativity by proposing that the operators that describe time evolution do not need to transform covariantly, although the measurable quantities need to transform covariantly. We discuss the weaknesses of this proposal.

id: quant-ph/0109121
title: Quantum Nonlocality for a Mixed Entangled Coherent State
authors: D. Wilson, H. Jeong, M. S. Kim
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures. To be published in J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt., Vol. 49, Special issue for QEP 15, 851-864 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109121
abstract: Quantum nonlocality is tested for an entangled coherent state, interacting with a dissipative environment. A pure entangled coherent state violates Bell's inequality regardless of its coherent amplitude. The higher the initial nonlocality, the more rapidly quantum nonlocality is lost. The entangled coherent state can also be investigated in the framework of $2\times2$ Hilbert space. The quantum nonlocality persists longer in $2\times2$ Hilbert space. When it decoheres it is found that the entangled coherent state fails the nonlocality test, which contrasts with the fact that the decohered entangled state is always entangled.

id: quant-ph/0109122
title: Toward Quantum Behavioral Finances: Bohmian Approach
authors: Olga Choustova
comments: References on papers in quantum economics and finances: E. W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski, M. Schroeder, A. Zambrzycka, V. I. Danilov and A. Lambert-Mogiliansky
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109122
abstract: We apply methods of quantum mechanics for mathematical modeling of price dynamics at the financial market. We propose to describe behavioral financial factors (e.g., expectations of traders) by using the pilot wave (Bohmian) model of quantum mechanics. Trajectories of prices are determined by two financial potentials: classical-like $V(q)$ ("hard" market conditions, e.g., natural resources) and quantum-like $U(q)$ (behavioral market conditions). On one hand, our Bohmian model is a quantum-like model for the financial market, cf. with works of W. Segal, I. E. Segal, E. Haven, E. W.Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski. On the other hand, (since Bohmian mechanics provides the possibility to describe individual price trajectories) it belongs to the domain of extended research on deterministic dynamics for financial assets (C.W. J. Granger, W.A. Barnett, A. J. Benhabib, W.A. Brock, C. Sayers, J. Y. Campbell, A. W. Lo, A. C. MacKinlay, A. Serletis, S. Kuchta, M. Frank, R. Gencay, T. Stengos, M. J. Hinich, D. Patterson, D. A. Hsieh, D. T. Caplan, J.A. Scheinkman, B. LeBaron and many others).

id: quant-ph/0109123
title: From Coupled Pendulums to Quantum Search
authors: Lov K. Grover, Anirvan Sengupta
comments: 10 pages. This is a condensed version of a chapter in the forthcoming book: "The Mathematics of Quantum Computation" to be published by CRC Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109123
abstract: Quantum search is a quantum mechanical technique for searching N possibilities in only sqrt(N) steps. This paper gives a fresh perspective on the algorithm in terms of a resonance phenomenon which is implemented through classical coupled oscillators. Consider N oscillators, one of which is of a different resonant frequency. We could identify which one this is by measuring the oscillation frequency of each oscillator, a procedure that would take about N cycles. We show how, by coupling the oscillators together in a very simple way, it is possible to identify the different one in only sqrt(N) cycles. An extension of this technique to the quantum case leads to the quantum search algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0109124
title: Mixed-state entanglement and quantum communication
authors: Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 42 pages; the article is part of a book entitled {\it Quantum Information: An Introduction to Basic Theoretical Concepts and Experiments} by G. Alber, T. Beth, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki, M. Rotteler, H. Weinfurter, R. Werner and A. Zeilinger, published in {\it Springer Tracts in Modern Physics}, July 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109124
abstract: We present basics of mixed-state entanglement theory. The first part of the article is devoted to mathematical characterizations of entangled states. In second part we discuss the question of using mixed-state entanglement for quantum communication. In particular, a type of entanglement that is not directly useful for quantum communcation (called bound entanglement) is analysed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0109125
title: Coherence and squeezing in superpositions of spin coherent states
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, revised version submitted to Opt. Commun
journal: Opt. Commun. 200 (1-6), 277-282 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109125
abstract: We consider the superpositions of spin coherent states and study the coherence properties and spin squeezing in these states. The spin squeezing is examined using a new version of spectroscopic squeezing criteria. The results show that the antibuching effect can be enhanced and spin squeezing can be generated in the superpositions of two spin coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0109126
title: Conditions for the local manipulation of Gaussian states
authors: J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, slightly changed, references updated, conclusions unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 097901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109126
abstract: We present a general necessary and sufficient criterion for the possibility of a state transformation from one mixed Gaussian state to another of a bi-partite continuous-variable system with two modes. The class of operations that will be considered is the set of local Gaussian completely positive trace-preserving maps.

id: quant-ph/0109127
title: Semi-classical States in the Context of Constrained Systems
authors: G. Date, Parampreet Singh
comments: RevTeX, 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109127
abstract: Algebraic quantization scheme has been proposed as an extension of the Dirac quantization scheme for constrained systems. Semi-classical states for constrained systems is also an independent and important issue, particularly in the context of quantum geometry. In this work we explore this issue within the framework of algebraic quantization scheme by means of simple explicit examples. We obtain semi-classical states as suitable coherent states a la Perelomov. Remarks on possible generalizations are also included.

id: quant-ph/0109128
title: Demonstration of Non-Deterministic Quantum Logic Operations using Linear Optical Elements
authors: T. B. Pittman, B. C. Jacobs, J. D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 257902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109128
abstract: Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn recently showed that non-deterministic quantum logic operations could be performed using linear optical elements, additional photons (ancilla), and post-selection based on the output of single-photon detectors [Nature 409, 46 (2001)]. Here we report the experimental demonstration of two logic devices of this kind, a destructive controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate and a quantum parity check. These two devices can be combined with a pair of entangled photons to implement a conventional (non-destructive) CNOT that succeeds with a probability of 1/4.

id: quant-ph/0109129
title: Relativity of representations in quantum mechanics
authors: A. C. de la Torre
comments: 10 pages, no figures, accepted in Am.J.Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys. 70, 398-300, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109129
abstract: Only the position representation is used in introductory quantum mechanics and the momentum representation is not usually presented until advanced undergraduate courses. To emphasize the relativity of the representations of the abstract formulation of quantum mechanics, two examples of representations related to the operators aX+(1-a)P and (XP+PX)/2 are presented.

id: quant-ph/0109130
title: Coherent Decays of Atoms
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Jeeva Anandan, Shmuel Nussinov
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109130
abstract: Re-considering this work.

id: quant-ph/0109131
title: Linear Order Matrix Inversion Method with Help from Quantum Searching Algorithm
authors: Atsushi Miyauchi
comments: 5 pages, ERATO workshop on Quantum Information Science, University of Tokyo, 6-8 Sep, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109131
abstract: Presented here is a matrix inversion method utilizing quantum searching algorithm. In this method, huge Hilbert space as a whole spanned by myriad of eigen states is searched and evaluated efficiently by sequential reduction in dimension one by one. Total iteration steps required for search are proportional to the number of unknown variables. Our method could solve very large linear equations with sufficiently high probability faster than any existing classical algorithms, which roughly depends on the cube of unknown variables.

id: quant-ph/0109132
title: Multi-Photon Entanglement Concentration and Quantum Cryptography
authors: Gabriel A. Durkin, Christoph Simon, Dik Bouwmeester
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol 88, 187902 (17 April 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109132
abstract: Multi-photon states from parametric down-conversion can be entangled both in polarization and photon number. Maximal high-dimensional entanglement can be concentrated from these states via photon counting. This makes them natural candidates for quantum key distribution, where the presence of more than one photon per detection interval has up to now been considered as undesirable. We propose a simple multi-photon protocol for the case of low losses and point out the robustness of the entanglement under photon loss.

id: quant-ph/0109133
title: Quantum times of arrival for multiparticle states
authors: A. D. Baute, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 10 a4 pages, 5 inlined figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109133
abstract: Using the concept of crossing state and the formalism of second quantization, we propose a prescription for computing the density of arrivals of particles for multiparticle states, both in the free and the interacting case. The densities thus computed are positive, covariant in time for time independent hamiltonians, normalized to the total number of arrivals, and related to the flux. We investigate the behaviour of this prescriptions for bosons and fermions, finding boson enhancement and fermion depletion of arrivals.

id: quant-ph/0109134
title: Repulsive Casimir Force between Dielectric Planes
authors: Karen Windmeier Wetz
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109134
abstract: In 1948 H.B.G.Casimir predicted that an attractive force between two perfectly conducting neutral plates exists due to changes in the electromagnetic vacuum energy caused by the influence of the plates. In 1956 E.M. Lifshitz derived an extension of Casimir's expression applicable to finite temperatures and arbitrary dielectric constants for the two half-spaces and the gap in between them. It is shown in this brief report that, while the Lifshitz formula predicts an attractive force for the case of identical dielectric constants for the two half-spaces, a repulsive force results in some circumstances when the dielectric constants are not identical. The reason for the repulsive force and possible applications will be considered.

id: quant-ph/0109135
title: Generating Entangled Two-Photon States with Coincident Frequencies
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: Revised version (a typo was corrected) as published on PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 183602 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109135
abstract: It is shown that parametric downconversion, with a short-duration pump pulse and a long nonlinear crystal that is appropriately phase matched, can produce a frequency-entangled biphoton state whose individual photons are coincident in frequency. Quantum interference experiments which distinguish this state from the familiar time-coincident biphoton state are described.

id: quant-ph/0109136
title: Exact results for accepting probabilities of quantum automata
authors: Andris Ambainis, Arnolds Kikusts
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Theoretical Computer Science (earlier version at STACS'01)
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, 295(2003):3-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109136
abstract: One of the properties of Kondacs-Watrous model of quantum finite automata (QFA) is that the probability of the correct answer for a QFA cannot be amplified arbitrarily. In this paper, we determine the maximum probabilities achieved by QFAs for several languages. In particular, we show that any language that is not recognized by an RFA (reversible finite automaton) can be recognized by a QFA with probability at most 0.7726...

id: quant-ph/0109137
title: The spin statistics theorem -- did Pauli get it right?
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109137
abstract: In this article, we begin with a review of Pauli's version of the spin-statistics theorem and then show, by re-defining the parameter associated with the Lie-Algebra structure of angular momentum, that another interpretation of the theorem may be given. It will be found that the vanishing commutator and anticommutator relationships can be associated with independent and dependent probability events respectively, and not spin value. Consequently, it gives a more intuitive understanding of quantum field theory and it also suggests that the distinction between timelike and spacelike events might be better described in terms of local and non-local events. Pacs: 3.65, 5.30, 3.70.+k

id: quant-ph/0109138
title: High-sensitivity force measurement using entangled probes
authors: Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: ReVTeX file, 11 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 61, 8 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109138
abstract: We show the possibility to improve the measurement sensitivity of a weak force by using two meters in an entangled state. This latter can be achieved by exploiting radiation pressure effects.

id: quant-ph/0109139
title: Reply to `Singularities of the mixed state phase'
authors: J. Anandan, E. Sj?qvist, A.K. Pati, A. Ekert, M. Ericsson, D.K.L. Oi, V. Vedral
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 268902 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109139
abstract: The only difference between Bhandari's viewpoint [quant-ph/0108058] and ours [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 (2000)] is that our phase is defined modulo $2\pi$, whereas Bhandari argues that two phases that differ by $2\pi n$, $n$ integer, may be distinguished experimentally in a history-dependent manner.

id: quant-ph/0109140
title: Entanglement and the factorization-approximation
authors: J. Gemmer, G. Mahler
comments: Accepted for publication in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys J. D 17, 385-393 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109140
abstract: For a bi-partite quantum system defined in a finite dimensional Hilbert space we investigate in what sense entanglement change and interactions imply each other. For this purpose we introduce an entanglement operator, which is then shown to represent a non-conserved property for any bi-partite system and any type of interaction. This general relation does not exclude the existence of special initial product states, for which the entanglement remains small over some period of time, despite interactions. For this case we derive an approximation to the full Schroedinger equation, which allows the treatment of the composite systems in terms of product states. The induced error is estimated. In this factorization-approximation one subsystem appears as an effective potential for the other. A pertinent example is the Jaynes-Cummings model, which then reduces to the semi-classical rotating wave approximation.

id: quant-ph/0109141
title: Distinguishability Measures and Ensemble Orderings
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109141
abstract: It is shown that different distinguishability measures impose different orderings on ensembles of $N$ pure quantum states. This is demonstrated using ensembles of equally-probable, linearly independent, symmetrical pure states, with the maximum probabilities of correct hypothesis testing and unambiguous state discrimination being the distinguishability measures. This finding implies that there is no absolute scale for comparing the distinguishability of any two ensembles of $N$ quantum states, and that distinguishability comparison is necessarily relative to a particular discrimination strategy.

id: quant-ph/0109142
title: Gravitational effects on a rigid Casimir cavity
authors: Enrico Calloni, Luciano Di Fiore, Giampiero Esposito, Leopoldo Milano, Luigi Rosa
comments: 7 pages, Latex. Talk given at the Fifth Leipzig Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions, September 2001
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 804-807
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109142
abstract: Vacuum fluctuations produce a force acting on a rigid Casimir cavity in a weak gravitational field. Such a force is here evaluated and is found to have opposite direction with respect to the gravitational acceleration; the order of magnitude for a multi-layer cavity configuration is analyzed and experimental detection is discussed, bearing in mind the current technological resources.

id: quant-ph/0109143
title: Wannier threshold law for two electron escape in the presence of an external electric field
authors: Bruno Eckhardt, Krzysztof Sacha
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 56, 651 (2001).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109143
abstract: We consider double ionization of atoms or ions by electron impact in the presence of a static electric field. As in Wanniers analysis of the analogous situation without external field the dynamics near threshold is dominated by a saddle. With a field the saddle lies in a subspace of symmetrically escaping electrons. Near threshold the classical cross section scales with excess energy E like sigma=E^alpha, where the exponent alpha can be determined from the stability of the saddle and does not depend on the field strength. For example, if the remaining ion has charge Z=2, the exponent is 1.292, significantly different from the 1.056 without the field.

id: quant-ph/0109144
title: Maximum entanglement of quantum-dot systems with single excitation in the spin van der Waals model
authors: A. Miranowicz, S.K. Ozdemir, M. Koashi, N. Imoto, Y. Hirayama
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109144
abstract: Time evolution of entanglement of N quantum dots is analyzed within the spin-1/2 van der Waals (or Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick) XY model. It is shown that, for a single dot initially excited and disentangled from the remaining unexcited dots, the maximum bipartite entanglement can be obtained in the systems of N=2,...,6 dots only.

id: quant-ph/0109145
title: Two-mode heterodyne phase detection
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 52, R4309 (1995).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109145
abstract: We present an experimental scheme that achieves ideal phase detection on a two-mode field. The two modes $a$ and $b$ are the signal and image band modes of an heterodyne detector, with the field approaching an eigenstate of the photocurrent $\hat{Z}=a+b^{\dag}$. The field is obtained by means of a high-gain phase-insensitive amplifier followed by a high-transmissivity beam-splitter with a strong local oscillator at the frequency of one of the two modes.

id: quant-ph/0109146
title: Indistinguishability and improper mixtures
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 4 pages. v2: Improved introduction and presentation of theorem of section 5; other small corrections; theorem nicknames changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109146
abstract: All quantum mixtures are what d'Espagnat has termed "improper." His "proper" mixture cannot be created -- if welcher weg, or distinguishing, information exists, an improper mixture results, while in the absence of such information, the resulting "mixture" is a pure state. D'Espagnat has claimed that an interpretation of the improper mixture in terms of subensembles leads to logical inconsistency; this claim is shown to be incorrect, as d'Espagnat's argument fails to account for the indistinguishability of the pure-state subensembles.

id: quant-ph/0109147
title: Manifestation of the Arnol'd Diffusion in Quantum Systems
authors: V.Ya. Demikhovskii, F.M. Izrailev, A.I. Malyshev
comments: RevTex, 4 pages including 7 ps-figures, corrected format
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 (2002) 154101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109147
abstract: We study an analog of the classical Arnol'd diffusion in a quantum system of two coupled non-linear oscillators one of which is governed by an external periodic force with two frequencies. In the classical model this very weak diffusion happens in a narrow stochastic layer along the coupling resonance, and leads to an increase of total energy of the system. We show that the quantum dynamics of wave packets mimics, up to some extent, global properties of the classical Arnol'd diffusion. This specific diffusion represents a new type of quantum dynamics, and may be observed, for example, in 2D semiconductor structures (quantum billiards) perturbed by time-periodic external fields.

id: quant-ph/0109148
title: Classical Communication via the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Channel Alone: A Proposed Experimental Test
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure; REVTeX; Comments welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109148
abstract: We uncover an apparent instance of classical information transfer via only the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen channel in a quantum optical protocol between Alice and Bob, involving two-photon maximal path entanglement and based on a recent Innsbruck experiment. The signal is traced to the appearance of coherent reduction due to the onset of spatial degeneracy in the eigenvalue spectrum for Alice's measurement. We present our result primarily as an issue for experimental testing rather than as a definitive prediction at this stage.

id: quant-ph/0109149
title: Limits of fractality: Zeno boxes and relativistic particles
authors: L. S. Schulman
comments: 
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 14, 823-830 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109149
abstract: Physical fractals invariably have upper and lower limits for their fractal structure. Berry has shown that a particle sharply confined to a box has a wave function that is fractal both in time and space, with no lower limit. In this article, two idealizations of this picture are softened and a corresponding lower bound for fractality obtained. For a box created by repeated measurements (\`a la the quantum Zeno effect), the lower bound is $\Delta x\sim \Delta t (\hbar/{mL})$ with $\Dt$ the interval between measurements and $L$ is the size of the box. For a relativistic particle, the lower bound is the Compton wavelength, $\hbar/mc$. The key step in deriving both results is to write the propagator as a sum over classical paths.

id: quant-ph/0109150
title: Against "knowledge"
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX2e, slightly revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109150
abstract: Quantum "states" are objective probability measures. Because their dependence on a time is not the time dependence of an evolving state, they are neither states of Nature nor "states of knowledge." There is no such thing as an evolving state. This disposes of the problem posed by the apparent existence of two modes of evolution. What essentially stands in the way of a consistent ontological interpretation of the quantum theory is our habit of projecting into the quantum world the detached, intrinsically differentiated spatiotemporal background of classical physics, for this is what entails the existence of an evolving state. An objective probability measure is the formal expression of an objective indefiniteness, such as the positional indefiniteness that contributes to "fluff out" matter. An objective indefiniteness entails that the values of certain observables are extrinsic (possessed because they are indicated) rather than intrinsic (indicated because they are possessed). This dependence on value-indicating facts is not a dependence on anything external to the quantum world. The latter constitutes a free-standing reality that owes nothing to observers, "information," or our interventions into "the course of Nature."

id: quant-ph/0109151
title: Asymptotic behaviour of the probability density in one dimension
authors: J. A. Damborenea, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga
comments: 5 pages, one eps figure included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109151
abstract: We demonstrate that the probability density of a quantum state moving freely in one dimension may decay faster than 1/t. Inverse quadratic and cubic dependences are illustrated with analytically solvable examples. Decays faster than 1/t allow the existence of dwell times and delay times.

id: quant-ph/0109152
title: Quantum computer and its quasiclassical model
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109152
abstract: Could the theories with hidden variables be employed for creation of a quantum computer? A particular scheme of quasiclassical model quantum computer structure is describe.

id: quant-ph/0109153
title: Bell's Inequalities In 4-dimension Rieman's Space
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109153
abstract: It is shown that the nature of quantum statistics can study in assumption of existence of a background of random gravitational fields and waves, distributed isotropically in the space. This background is capable of correlating phases of oscillations of identical microobjects. If such a background of random gravitational fields and waves is considered as hidden variables. It is shown that the classic physical of Bells observable in the 4-dimensions Rieman's space gives the value matching the experimental data. The nature of the entanglement states we are study here.

id: quant-ph/0109154
title: Rigged Hilbert Space Treatment of Continuous Spectrum
authors: R. de la Madrid, A. Bohm, M. Gadella
comments: RevTex, 32 pages
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 50 (2002) 185-216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109154
abstract: The ability of the Rigged Hilbert Space formalism to deal with continuous spectrum is demonstrated within the example of the square barrier potential. The non-square integrable solutions of the time-independent Schrodinger equation are used to define Dirac kets, which are (generalized) eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian. These Dirac kets are antilinear functionals over the space of physical wave functions. They are also basis vectors that expand any physical wave function in a Dirac basis vector expansion. It is shown that an acceptable physical wave function must fulfill stronger conditions than just square integrability--the space of physical wave functions is not the whole Hilbert space but rather a dense subspace of the Hilbert space. We construct the position and energy representations of the Rigged Hilbert Space generated by the square barrier potential Hamiltonian. We shall also construct the unitary operator that transforms from the position into the energy representation. We shall see that in the energy representation the Dirac kets act as the antilinear Schwartz delta functional. In constructing the Rigged Hilbert Space of the square barrier potential, we will find a systematic procedure to construct the Rigged Hilbert Space of a large class of spherically symmetric potentials. The example of the square barrier potential will also make apparent that the natural framework for the solutions of a Schrodinger operator with continuous spectrum is the Rigged Hilbert Space rather than just the Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0109155
title: Optimizing Completely Positive Maps using Semidefinite Programming
authors: K. Audenaert, B. De Moor
comments: 4 pages; references corrected and added; shortened to fit 4-page format
journal: Phys.Rev.A (65), 030302 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109155
abstract: Recently, a lot of attention has been devoted to finding physically realisable operations that realise as closely as possible certain desired transformations between quantum states, e.g. quantum cloning, teleportation, quantum gates, etc. Mathematically, this problem boils down to finding a completely positive trace-preserving (CPTP) linear map that maximizes the (mean) fidelity between the map itself and the desired transformation. In this note we want to draw attention to the fact that this problem belongs to the class of so-called semidefinite programming (SDP) problems. As SDP problems are convex, it immediately follows that they do not suffer from local optima. Furthermore, this implies that the numerical optimization of the CPTP map can, and should, be done using methods from the well-established SDP field, as these methods exploit convexity and are guaranteed to converge to the real solution. Finally, we show how the duality inherent to convex and SDP problems can be exploited to prove analytically the optimality of a proposed solution. We give an example of how to apply this proof method by proving the optimality of Hardy and Song's proposed solution for the universal qubit $\theta$-shifter (quant-ph/0102100).

id: quant-ph/0109156
title: Decoherence in trapped ions due to polarization of the residual background gas
authors: R. M. Serra, N. G. de Almeida, W. B. da Costa, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 26 pdf pages with 5 figures, this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 033419 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109156
abstract: We investigate the mechanism of damping and heating of trapped ions associated with the polarization of the residual background gas induced by the oscillating ions themselves. Reasoning by analogy with the physics of surface electrons in liquid helium, we demonstrate that the decay of Rabi oscillations observed in experiments on 9Be+ can be attributed to the polarization phenomena investigated here. The measured sensitivity of the damping of Rabi oscillations with respect to the vibrational quantum number of a trapped ion is also predicted in our polarization model.

id: quant-ph/0109157
title: A note on quantum one-way permutations
authors: Elham Kashefi, Harumichi Nishimura, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109157
abstract: We discuss the question of the existence of quantum one-way permutations. First, we prove the equivalence between inverting a permutation and that of constructing a polynomial size network for reflecting about a given quantum state. Next, we consider the question: if a state is difficult to prepare, is the operator reflecting about that state difficult to construct? By revisiting Grover's algorithm, we present the relationship between this question and the existence of one-way permutations. Moreover, we compare our method to Grover's algorithm and discuss possible applications of our results.

id: quant-ph/0109158
title: Structure and Parametrization of Stochastic Maps of Density Matrices
authors: E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109158
abstract: The generic linear evolution of the density matrix of a system with a finite-dimensional state space is by stochastic maps which take a density matrix linearly into the set of density matrices. These dynamical stochastic maps form a linear convex set that may be viewed as supermatrices. The property of hermiticity of density matrices renders an associated supermatrix hermitian and hence diagonalizable; but the positivity of the density matrix does not make this associated supermatrix positive. If it is positive, the map is called completely positive and they have a simple parametrization. This is extended to all positive (not completely positive) maps. A contraction of a norm-preserving map of the combined system can be contracted to obtain all dynamical maps. The reconstruction of the extended dynamics is given.

id: quant-ph/0109159
title: Quantum Theory and Probabilities
authors: E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109159
abstract: It is often stated that quantum mechanics only makes statistical predictions and that a quantum state is described by the various probability distributions associated with it. Can we describe a quantum state completely in terms of probabilities and then use it to describe quantum dynamics? What is the origin of the probability distribution for a maximally specified quantum state? Is quantum mechanics `local' or is there an essential nonlocality (nonseparability) inherent in quantum mechanics? These questions are discussed in this paper. The decay of an unstable quantum state and the time dependence of a minimum uncertainty states for future times as well as past times are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0109160
title: Teleportation of Entangled States of a Vacuum-One Photon Qubit
authors: Egilberto Lombardi, Fabio Sciarrino, Sandu Popescu, Francesco De Martini
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0109160
abstract: We report the experimental realization of teleporting an entangled qubit. The qubit is physically implemented by a two-dimensional subspace of states of a mode of the electromagnetic field, specifically, the space spanned by the vacuum and the one photon state. Our experiment follows along lines suggested by H. W. Lee and J. Kim, Phys. Rev. A, 63, 012305 (2000) and E.Knill, R.Laflamme and G.Milburn Nature 409: 46 (2001).

id: astro-ph/0109388
title: Classicality of primordial fluctuations and Primordial Black Holes
authors: David Polarski
comments: uses LaTeX, 8 pages; one ref. added; to appear in Int. J. of Mod. Physics D
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D10 (2001) 927
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0109388
abstract: The production of Primordial Black Holes (PBH) from inflationary perturbations provides a physical process where the effective classicality of the fluctuations does not hold for certain scales. For adiabatic perturbations produced during inflation, this range of scales corresponds to PBH with masses $M\ll 10^{15}$ g. For PBH with masses $M\sim M_H(t_e)$, the horizon mass at the end of inflation, the generation process during the preheating stage could be classical as well, in contrast to the formation of PBH on these scales by adiabatic inflationary perturbations. For the non evaporated PBH, the generation process is essentially classical.

id: cond-mat/0109075
title: Optical excitations in diphenylacetylene based dendrimers studied by a coupled exciton model with off-diagonal disorder
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 14 pages; World Scientific's site: this http URL
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 13 (1999) 2531-2544
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109075
abstract: A phenomenological coupled exciton model is proposed in order to characterize optical excitations in extended dendrimers. An onsite exciton state is assigned at each phenyl rings and a nearest neighbor hopping integral which obeys the Gaussian distribution is considered between the exciton states. The decreasing optical excitation energy with respect to the dendrimer size indicates the presence of exciton funnels along the backbone of the dendrimers. Therefore, the extended dendrimers can work as artificial fractal antenna systems which capture energy of light. Dynamics of an exciton is also investigated by solving time development of a wavefunction of optical excitations. It is shown that a damping term with a certain magnitude is necessary in order that optical excitations captured at the outer edge of the supermolecule move to the central areas of the molecule.

id: cond-mat/0109076
title: Propagation of Cooper pairs in carbon nanotubes with superconducting correlations
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physica B 323 (2002) 222-223.
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109076
abstract: Propagation of Cooper pairs in carbon nanotubes in the presence of superconducting correlations is studied theoretically. We find that negative and positive currents induced by impurity scatterings between electrons and holes cancel each other, and the nonmagnetic impurity does not hinder the supercurrent in the regions where the superconducting proximity effects occur. The carbon nanotube is a good conductor for Cooper pairs.

id: cond-mat/0109094
title: Measurement-induced Squeezing of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Jacek Dziarmaga, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 033620 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109094
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate during its nondestructive imaging. A generalized Lindblad superoperator in the condensate master equation is used to include the effect of the measurement. A continuous imaging with a sufficiently high laser intensity progressively drives the quantum state of the condensate into number squeezed states. Observable consequences of such a measurement-induced squeezing are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0109100
title: Single and double qubit gates by manipulating degeneracy
authors: T. Hakioglu, J. Anderson, F. Wellstood
comments: 6 pages + 5 figures (separately included)
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109100
abstract: A novel mechanism is proposed for single and double qubit state manipulations in quantum computation with four-fold degenerate energy levels. The principle is based on starting with a four fold degeneracy, lifting it stepwise adiabatically by a set of control parameters and performing the quantum gate operations on non-degenerate states. A particular realization of the proposed mechanism is suggested by using inductively coupled rf-squid loops in the macroscopic quantum tunnelling regime where the energy eigen levels are directly connected with the measurable flux states. The one qubit and two qubit controlled operations are demonstrated explicitly. The appearance of the flux states also allows precise read-in and read-out operations by the measurement of flux.

id: cond-mat/0109207
title: Mechanical Lamb-shift analogue for the Cooper-pair box
authors: A.D. Armour, M.P. Blencowe, K.C. Schwab
comments: To appear in Phonons 2001 Proceedings (Physica B)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109207
abstract: We estimate the correction to the Cooper-pair box energy level splitting due to the quantum motion of a coupled micromechanical gate electrode. While the correction due to zero-point motion is very small, it should be possible to observe thermal motion-induced corrections to the photon-assisted tunneling current.

id: cond-mat/0109208
title: Micromechanical electrometry of single-electron transistor island charge
authors: M.P. Blencowe, Y. Zhang
comments: To appear in Phonons 2001 Proceedings (Physica B)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109208
abstract: We consider the possibility of using a micromechanical gate electrode located just above the island of a single-electron transistor to measure directly the fluctuating island charge due to tunnelling electrons.

id: cond-mat/0109223
title: Biexcitons in Coupled Quantum Dots as a Source of Entangled Photons
authors: Oliver Gywat, Guido Burkard, Daniel Loss
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, v2: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 65, 205329 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109223
abstract: We study biexcitonic states in two tunnel-coupled semiconductor quantum dots and show that such systems provide the possibility to produce polarization- entangled photons or spin-entangled electrons that are spatially separated at production. We distinguish between the various spin configurations and calculate the low-energy biexciton spectrum using the Heitler-London approximation as a function of magnetic and electric fields. The oscillator strengths for the biexciton recombination involving the sequential emission of two photons are calculated. The entanglement of the photon polarizations resulting from the spin configuration in the biexciton states is quantified as a function of the photon emission angles.

id: cond-mat/0109252
title: Theory of Fast Quantum Control of Exciton Dynamics in Semiconductor Quantum Dots
authors: C. Piermarocchi, Pochung Chen, Y. S. Dale, L. J. Sham
comments: 11 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109252
abstract: Optical techniques for the quantum control of the dynamics of multiexciton states in a semiconductor quantum dot are explored in theory. Composite bichromatic phase-locked pulses are shown to reduce the time of elementary quantum operations on excitons and biexcitons by an order of magnitude or more. Analytic and numerical methods of designing the pulse sequences are investigated. Fidelity of the operation is used to gauge its quality. A modified Quantum Fourier Transform algorithm is constructed with only Rabi rotations and is shown to reduce the number of operations. Application of the designed pulses to the algorithm is tested by a numerical simulation.

id: cond-mat/0109324
title: Yet another resolution of the Gibbs paradox: an information theory approach
authors: Chih-Yuan Tseng, Ariel Caticha
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2001, the 21th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods (August 4-9, 2001, Baltimore, MD, USA)
journal: p. 331 in "Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering" ed. by R. L. Fry (A.I.P. Vol. 617, 2002)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109324
abstract: The ``Gibbs Paradox'' refers to several related questions concerning entropy in thermodynamics and statistical mechanics: whether it is an extensive quantity or not, how it changes when identical particles are mixed, and the proper way to count states in systems of identical particles. Several authors have recognized that the paradox is resolved once it is realized that there is no such thing as the entropy of a system, that there are many entropies, and that the choice between treating particles as being distinguishable or not depends on the resolution of the experiment. The purpose of this note is essentially pedagogical; we add to their analysis by examining the paradox from the point of view of information theory. Our argument is based on that `grouping' property of entropy that Shannon recognized, by including it among his axioms, as an essential requirement on any measure of information. Not only does it provide the right connection between different entropies but, in addition, it draws our attention to the obvious fact that addressing issues of distinguishability and of counting states requires a clear idea about what precisely do we mean by a state.

id: cond-mat/0109327
title: Integrable Stochastic Ladder Models
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: Latex, 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.A34:6545-6552,2001
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109327
abstract: A general way to construct ladder models with certain Lie algebraic or quantum Lie algebraic symmetries is presented. These symmetric models give rise to series of integrable systems. It is shown that corresponding to these SU(2) symmetric integrable ladder models there are exactly solvable stationary discrete-time (resp. continuous-time) Markov processes with transition matrices (resp. intensity matrices) having spectra which coincide with the ones of the corresponding integrable models.

id: cond-mat/0109337
title: Spin-based optical quantum gates via Pauli blocking in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: E. Pazy, E. Biolatti, T. Calarco, I. D'Amico, P. Zanardi, F. Rossi, P. Zoller
comments: 14 Pages RevTeX, 3 eps figures included
journal: Europhys. Lett. 62 2003 175
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109337
abstract: We present a solid-state implementation of ultrafast conditional quantum gates. Our proposal for a quantum-computing device is based on the spin degrees of freedom of electrons confined in semiconductor quantum dots, thus benefiting from relatively long decoherence times. More specifically, combining Pauli blocking effects with properly tailored ultrafast laser pulses, we are able to obtain sub-picosecond spin-dependent switching of the Coulomb interaction, which is the essence of our conditional phase-gate proposal. This allows us to realize {\it a fast two qubit gate which does not translate into fast decoherence times} and paves the road for an all-optical spin-based quantum computer.

id: cond-mat/0109412
title: Intrinsic noise of a micro-mechanical displacement detector based on the radio-frequency single-electron transistor
authors: Yong Zhang, Miles Blencowe
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109412
abstract: We investigate the intrinsic noise of a micro-mechanical displacement detector based on the radio-frequency single-electron transistor (rf-SET). Using the noise analysis of a SET by Korotkov as our starting point, we determine the spectral density of the displacement noise due to the tunneling current shot noise. The resulting mechanical displacement noise decreases in inverse proportion to the increasing gate voltage. In contrast, the displacement noise due to the fluctuating SET island charge increases approximately linearly with increasing gate voltage. Taking into account both of these noise sources results in an optimum gate voltage value for the lowest displacement noise and hence best sensitivity. We show that a displacement sensitivity of about 10^-4 Angstroms and a force sensitivity of about 10^-16 N are predicted for a micron-sized cantilever with a realizable resonant frequency 100 MHz and quality factor Q~10^4. Such sensitivities would allow the detection of quantum squeezing in the mechanical motion of the micro-mechanical cantilever and the detection of single-spin magnetic resonance in magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM).

id: cond-mat/0109459
title: Electronic transport through nuclear-spin-polarization-induced quantum wire
authors: Yu.V. Pershin, S.N. Shevchenko, I.D. Vagner, P.Wyder
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 66, 035303 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109459
abstract: Electron transport in a new low-dimensional structure - the nuclear spin polarization induced quantum wire (NSPI QW) is theoretically studied. In the proposed system the local nuclear spin polarization creates the effective hyperfine field which confines the electrons with the spins opposite to the hyperfine field to the regions of maximal nuclear spin polarization. The influence of the nuclear spin relaxation and diffusion on the electron energy spectrum and on the conductance of the quantum wire is calculated and the experimental feasibility is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0109538
title: Exact eigenstates for contact interactions
authors: Andras Suto
comments: 23 pages. More references, enlarged introduction, remark 2.9 corrected. To appear in Journal of Statistical Physics
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 109 (2002) 1051-1072
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109538
abstract: We show that in d>1 dimensions the N-particle kinetic energy operator with periodic boundary conditions has symmetric eigenfunctions which vanish at particle encounters, and give a full description of these functions. In two and three dimensions they represent common eigenstates of bosonic Hamiltonians with any kind of contact interactions, and illustrate a partial `multi-dimensional Bethe Ansatz' or `quantum-KAM theorem'. The lattice analogs of these functions exist for N<=L^[d/2] where L is the linear size of the box, and are common eigenstates of Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonians and spin-1/2 XXZ Heisenberg models.

id: cond-mat/0109544
title: Aharonov-Casher-Effect Suppression of Macroscopic Tunneling of Magnetic Flux
authors: Jonathan R. Friedman, D. V. Averin
comments: RevTeX, 9 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 88, 050403 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109544
abstract: We suggest a system in which the amplitude of macroscopic flux tunneling can be modulated via the Aharonov-Casher effect. The system is an rf-SQUID with the Josephson junction replaced by a Bloch transistor -- two junctions separated by a small superconducting island on which the charge can be induced by an external gate voltage. When the Josephson coupling energies of the junctions are equal and the induced charge is q=e, destructive interference between tunneling paths brings the flux tunneling rate to zero. The device may also be useful as a qubit for quantum computation.

id: gr-qc/0109003
title: The noise in gravitational-wave detectors and other classical-force measurements is not influenced by test-mass quantization
authors: Vladimir B. Braginsky, Mikhail L. Gorodetsky, Farid Ya. Khalili, Andrey B. Matsko, Kip S. Thorne, Sergey P. Vyatchanin
comments: Submitted to Physical Review D; Revtex, no figures, prints to 14 pages. Second Revision 1 December 2002: minor rewording for clarity, especially in Sec. II.B.3; new footnote 3 and passages before Eq. (2.35) and at end of Sec. III.B.2
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 082001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0109003
abstract: It is shown that photon shot noise and radiation-pressure back-action noise are the sole forms of quantum noise in interferometric gravitational wave detectors that operate near or below the standard quantum limit, if one filters the interferometer output appropriately. No additional noise arises from the test masses' initial quantum state or from reduction of the test-mass state due to measurement of the interferometer output or from the uncertainty principle associated with the test-mass state. Two features of interferometers are central to these conclusions: (i) The interferometer output (the photon number flux N(t) entering the final photodetector) commutes with itself at different times in the Heisenberg Picture, [N(t), N(t')] = 0, and thus can be regarded as classical. (ii) This number flux is linear in the test-mass initial position and momentum operators x_o and p_o, and those operators influence the measured photon flux N(t) in manners that can easily be removed by filtering -- e.g., in most interferometers, by discarding data near the test masses' 1 Hz swinging freqency. The test-mass operators x_o and p_o contained in the unfiltered output N(t) make a nonzero contribution to the commutator [N(t), N(t')]. That contribution is cancelled by a nonzero commutation of the photon shot noise and radiation-pressure noise, which also are contained in N(t). This cancellation of commutators is responsible for the fact that it is possible to derive an interferometer's standard quantum limit from test-mass considerations, and independently from photon-noise considerations. These conclusions are true for a far wider class of measurements than just gravitational-wave interferometers. To elucidate them, this paper presents a series of idealized thought experiments that are free from the complexities of real measuring systems.

id: gr-qc/0109053
title: Discrete Quantum Causal Dynamics
authors: R. Blute, I.T. Ivanov, P. Panangaden
comments: 29 pages, 8 figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 42 (2003) 2025-2041
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0109053
abstract: We give a mathematical framework to describe the evolution of an open quantum systems subjected to finitely many interactions with classical apparatuses. The systems in question may be composed of distinct, spatially separated subsystems which evolve independently but may also interact. This evolution, driven both by unitary operators and measurements, is coded in a precise mathematical structure in such a way that the crucial properties of causality, covariance and entanglement are faithfully represented. We show how our framework may be expressed using the language of (poly)categories and functors. Remarkably, important physical consequences - such as covariance - follow directly from the functoriality of our axioms. We establish strong links between the physical picture we propose and linear logic. Specifically we show that the refined logical connectives of linear logic can be used to describe the entanglements of subsystems in a precise way. Furthermore, we show that there is a precise correspondence between the evolution of a given system and deductions in a certain formal logical system based on the rules of linear logic. This framework generalizes and enriches both causal posets and the histories approach to quantum mechanics.

id: gr-qc/0109061
title: Constraints on Spatial distributions of Negative Energy
authors: Arvind Borde, L.H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures. Some expressions in Sect. IIIB4 corrected; other minor changes in the text and in the figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 084002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0109061
abstract: This paper initiates a program which seeks to study the allowed spatial distributions of negative energy density in quantum field theory. Here we deal with free fields in Minkowski spacetime. Known restrictions on time integrals of the energy density along geodesics, the averaged weak energy condition and quantum inequalities are reviewed. These restrictions are then used to discuss some possible constraints on the allowable spatial distributions of negative energy. We show how some geometric configurations can either be ruled out or else constrained. We also construct some explicit examples of allowed distributions. Several issues related to the allowable spatial distributions are also discussed. These include spacetime averaged quantum inequalities in two-dimensional spacetime, the failure of generalizations of the averaged weak energy condition to piecewise geodesics, and the issue of when the local energy density is negative in the frame of all observers.

id: gr-qc/0109089
title: An origin of the Universe determined by quantum physics and relativistic gravity
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan, G. T. Gillies, R. C. Ritter
comments: Standard LaTex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0109089
abstract: We discuss the evolution of the Universe from what might be called its quantum origin. We apply the uncertainty principle to the origin of the Universe with characteristic time scale equal to the Planck time to obtain its initial temperature and density. We establish that the subsequent evolution obeying the Einstein equation gives the present temperature of the microwave background close to the observed value. The same origin allows the possibility that the Universe started with exactly the critical density, Omega =1, and remained at the critical density during evolution. Many other important features of the observed Universe, including homogeneity and isotropy, Hubble's constant at origin, its minimum age, present density etc. are all predictions of our theory. We discuss also the testability of our theory.

id: hep-ph/0109165
title: Instantaneous Bethe-Salpeter equation: improved analytical solution
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, F. F. Schoberl
comments: 7 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 2233
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0109165
abstract: Studying the Bethe-Salpeter formalism for interactions instantaneous in the rest frame of the bound states described, we show that, for bound-state constituents of arbitrary masses, the mass of the ground state of a given spin may be calculated almost entirely analytically with high accuracy, without the (numerical) diagonalization of the matrix representation obtained by expansion of the solutions over a suitable set of basis states.

id: hep-th/0109002
title: Factorization method and the supersymmetric monopole harmonics
authors: G. Andrei Mezincescu, Luca Mezincescu
comments: 18 pages, latex209, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 44 (2003) 3595-3606
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109002
abstract: We use the general $N = 1$ supersymmetric formulation of one dimensional sigma models on non trivial manifolds and its subsequent quantization to formulate the classical and quantum dynamics of the $ N= 2 $ supersymmetric charged particle moving on a sphere in the field of a monopole. The factorization method accommodated with the general covariance and it is used to integrate the corresponding system.

id: hep-th/0109003
title: Path Integral Treatment of Singular Problems and Bound States: Quantum Mechanics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 32 pages. The paper was significantly expanded and numerous equations were added for the sake of clarity; the main results and conclusions are unchanged
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A19 (2004) 1413-1440
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109003
abstract: A path-integral approach for the computation of quantum-mechanical propagators and energy Green's functions is presented. Its effectiveness is demonstrated through its application to singular interactions, with particular emphasis on the inverse square potential--possibly combined with a delta-function interaction. The emergence of these singular potentials as low-energy nonrelativistic limits of quantum field theory is highlighted. Not surprisingly, the analogue of ultraviolet regularization is required for the interpretation of these singular problems.

id: hep-th/0109008
title: Quantum Inozemtsev model, quasi-exact solvability and N-fold supersymmetry
authors: R. Sasaki, K. Takasaki
comments: LaTeX2e 28 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A34:9533-9554,2001; Erratum-ibid.A34:10335,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109008
abstract: Inozemtsev models are classically integrable multi-particle dynamical systems related to Calogero-Moser models. Because of the additional q^6 (rational models) or sin^2(2q) (trigonometric models) potentials, their quantum versions are not exactly solvable in contrast with Calogero-Moser models. We show that quantum Inozemtsev models can be deformed to be a widest class of partly solvable (or quasi-exactly solvable) multi-particle dynamical systems. They posses N-fold supersymmetry which is equivalent to quasi-exact solvability. A new method for identifying and solving quasi-exactly solvable systems, the method of pre-superpotential, is presented.

id: hep-th/0109145
title: Gauge Theory of Gravity
authors: Ning Wu
comments: 114 pages,Latex file, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109145
abstract: The quantum gravity is formulated based on principle of local gauge invariance. The model discussed in this paper has local gravitational gauge symmetry and gravitational field appears as gauge field. The problems on quantization and renormalization of the theory are also discussed in this paper. In leading order approximation, the gravitational gauge field theory gives out classical Newton's theory of gravity. In first order approximation and for vacuum, the gravitational gauge field theory gives out Einstein's general theory of relativity. This quantum gauge theory of gravity is a renormalizable quantum theory.

id: hep-th/0109179
title: N-fold Supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanics - Analyses of Particular Models -
authors: Masatoshi Sato, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, REVTeX 4
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 3484-3510
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109179
abstract: We investigate particular models which can be N-fold supersymmetric at specific values of a parameter in the Hamiltonians. The models to be investigated are a periodic potential and a parity-symmetric sextic triple-well potential. Through the quantitative analyses on the non-perturbative contributions to the spectra by the use of the valley method, we show how the characteristic features of N-fold supersymmetry which have been previously reported by the authors can be observed. We also clarify the difference between quasi-exactly solvable and quasi-perturbatively solvable case in view of the dynamical property, that is, dynamical N-fold supersymmetry breaking.

id: hep-th/0109215
title: Geometry of Generalized Coherent States : Some Calculations of Chern Characters
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 1+22 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0109215
abstract: This is a continuation of the preceding paper (hep-ph/0108219). First of all we make a brief review of generalized coherent states based on Lie algebra su(1,1) and prove that the resolution of unity can be obtained by the curvature form of some bundle. Next for a set of generalized coherent states we define a universal bundle over the infinite-dimensional Grassmann manifold and construct the pull-back bundle making use of a projector from the parameter space to this Grassmann one. We mainly study Chern characters of these bundles. Although the Chern characters in the infinite-dimensional case are in general not easy to calculate, we can perform them for the special cases. In this paper we report our calculations and propose some problems.

id: math-ph/0109023
title: The von Neumann entropy and information rate for ideal quantum Gibbs ensembles
authors: Oliver Johnson, Yuri Suhov
comments: 16 pages: revised version of Feb 2001 taking into account referee's comments
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, pp 3-24, Vol 3, No 1, 2003
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0109023
abstract: A model of a quantum information source is proposed, based on the Gibbs ensemble of ideal (free) particles (bosons or fermions). We identify the (thermodynamic) von Neumann entropy as the information rate and establish the classical Lempel--Ziv universal coding algorithm in Grassberger's form for such a source. This generalises the Schumacher theorem to the case of non-IID qubits.

id: cond-mat/0109357
title: Low-energy scales and temperature-dependent photoemission of heavy fermions
authors: T. A. Costi, N. Manini
comments: 32 pages, 15 EPS figures, published JLTP version; a few references corrected
journal: Journal of Low Temperature Physics, Vol. 126, Issue 3/4, pp. 835-866 (2002)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0109357
abstract: We solve the $S=1/2$ Kondo lattice model within the dynamical mean field theory. Detailed predictions are made for the dependence of the lattice Kondo resonance and the conduction electron spectral density on temperature and band filling $n_{c}$. Two low-energy scales are identified in the spectra: a renormalized hybridization pseudogap scale $T^{*}$, which correlates with the single-ion Kondo scale, and a lattice Kondo scale $T_{0} < T^{*}$, which acts as the Fermi-liquid coherence scale. The lattice Kondo resonance is split into a main branch, which is pinned at the Fermi level, and whose width is set by $T_{0}$, and an upper branch at $\omega\approx T^{*}$. The weight of the upper branch decreases rapidly away from $n_{c}=1$ and vanishes for $n_{c}\lesssim 0.7$. In contrast, the pseudogap in the conduction electron spectral density persists for all $n_{c}$. On increasing temperature, the lattice Kondo resonance at the Fermi level vanishes on a temperature scale of order $10 T_{0}$, as in impurity model calculations. In contrast to impurity model spectra, however, the position of the lattice Kondo resonance depends strongly on temperature, particularly close to the Kondo insulating state. The results are used to make predictions on the temperature dependence of the low-energy photoemission and inverse photoemission spectra of metallic heavy fermions and doped Kondo insulators. We compare our results with available high-resolution measurements on YbInCu$_4$ and YbAgCu$_4$. The loss in intensity with increasing temperature, and the asymmetric lineshape of the low-energy spectra are well accounted for by our model. More detailed agreement with experiment would require including the $f$-orbital degeneracy and crystal-field excited states.

