id: quant-ph/0111001
title: Quantum filter for non-local polarization properties of photonic qubits
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 7 pages, including one figure, short discussion of error sources added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 147901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111001
abstract: We present an optical filter that transmits photon pairs only if they share the same horizontal or vertical polarization, without decreasing the quantum coherence between these two possibilities. Various applications for entanglement manipulations and multi-photon qubits are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111002
title: Quantum Chaotic Environments, The Butterfly Effect, And Decoherence
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski, Christopher Jarzynski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 89, 170405 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111002
abstract: We investigate the sensitivity of quantum systems that are chaotic in a classical limit, to small perturbations of their equations of motion. This sensitivity, originally studied in the context of defining quantum chaos, is relevant to decoherence in situations when the environment has a chaotic classical counterpart.

id: quant-ph/0111003
title: Exact and Approximate Performance of Concatenated Quantum Codes
authors: Benjamin Rahn, Andrew C. Doherty, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; updated reference 4, fixed typo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111003
abstract: We derive the effective channel for a logical qubit protected by an arbitrary quantum error-correcting code, and derive the map between channels induced by concatenation. For certain codes in the presence of single-bit Pauli errors, we calculate the exact threshold error probability for perfect fidelity in the infinite concatenation limit. We then use the control theory technique of balanced truncation to find low-order non-asymptotic approximations for the effective channel dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0111004
title: Random low rank mixed states are highly entangled
authors: Hao Chen
comments: 12 pages, no figure. Title and main theorem changed, we emphasize that random low rank mixed states have high Schmidt numbers in v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111004
abstract: We prove that for many ranks r<2m-2, random rank r mixed states in bipartite mxm systems have relatively high Schmidt numbers, which is based on algebraic-geometric separability criterion proved in [1]. This also means that the algebraic-geometric separability criterion can be used to detect all low rank entangled mixed states outside a measure zero set.

id: quant-ph/0111005
title: Approach to Quantum Kramers' Equation and Barrier Crossing Dynamics
authors: Dhruba Banerjee, Bidhan Chandra Bag, Suman Kumar Banik, Deb Shankar Ray
comments: RevTex, 18 pages, 2 figures; Minor corrections; To appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 65 (2002) 021109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111005
abstract: We have presented a simple approach to quantum theory of Brownian motion and barrier crossing dynamics. Based on an initial coherent state representation of bath oscillators and an equilibrium canonical distribution of quantum mechanical mean values of their co-ordinates and momenta we have derived a $c$-number generalized quantum Langevin equation. The approach allows us to implement the method of classical non-Markovian Brownian motion to realize an exact generalized non-Markovian quantum Kramers' equation. The equation is valid for arbitrary temperature and friction. We have solved this equation in the spatial diffusion-limited regime to derive quantum Kramers' rate of barrier crossing and analyze its variation as a function of temperature and friction. While almost all the earlier theories rest on quasi-probability distribution functions (like Wigner function) and path integral methods, the present work is based on {\it true probability distribution functions} and is independent of path integral techniques. The theory is a natural extension of the classical theory to quantum domain and provides a unified description of thermal activated processes and tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0111006
title: Quantum-like formalism for cognitive measurements
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: New version: neurophysiological foundations for quantum-like statistical model of thinking -- frequency neural pathway coding
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111006
abstract: We develop a kind of quantum formalism (Hilbert space probabilistic calculus) for measurements performed over cognitive (in particular, conscious) systems. By using this formalism we could predict averages of cognitive observables. Reflecting the basic idea of neurophisiological and psychological studies on a hierarchic structure of cognitive processes, we use p-adic hierarchic trees as a mathematical model of a mental space. We also briefly discuss the general problem of the choice of adequate mental geometry.

id: quant-ph/0111007
title: Inhomogeneous boson realizations of the polynomial angular momentum algebra of arbitrary power
authors: Dong Ruan, Yufeng Jia, Hongzhou Sun
comments: 8 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111007
abstract: The inhomogeneous single-, two- and three-boson realizations of the more general polynomial angular momentum algebra SU_n(2) are obtained from the Fock representations of SU_n(2) that corresponds to the indecomposable representation on the space of universal enveloping algebra U(SU_n(2)) and to the induced representations on the quotient spaces U(SU_n(2))/I_i, with I_i being some left ideals of U(SU_n(2)).

id: quant-ph/0111008
title: Path Integral Approach to the Non-Relativistic Electron Charge Transfer
authors: N. Laskin, I. Tomski
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular & Optical, vol.34, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111008
abstract: A path integral approach has been generalized for the non-relativistic electron charge transfer processes. The charge transfer - the capture of an electron by an ion passing another atom or more generally the problem of rearrangement collisions is formulated in terms of influence functionals. It has been shown that the electron charge transfer process can be treated either as electron transition problem or as elastic scattering of ion and atom in the some effective potential field. The first-order Born approximation for the electron charge transfer cross section has been reproduced to prove the adequacy of the path integral approach for this problem.

id: quant-ph/0111009
title: The quantum algorithm of Kieu does not solve the Hilbert's tenth problem
authors: Boris Tsirelson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111009
abstract: Recently T. Kieu (arXiv:quant-ph/0110136) claimed a quantum algorithm computing some functions beyond the Church-Turing class. He notes that "it is in fact widely believed that quantum computation cannot offer anything new about computability" and claims the opposite. However, his quantum algorithm does not work, which is the point of my short note. I still believe that quantum computation leads to new complexity but retains the old computability.

id: quant-ph/0111010
title: Temporal Windowing of Trapped States
authors: L.M.Castellano, D.M. Gonzalez
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps figures. Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111010
abstract: Trapped state definition for 3-level atoms in Lambda configuration, is a very restrictive one, and for the case of unpolarized beams, this definition no longer holds.We introduce a more general definition by using a reference frame rotating with the frequency of the control field, obtaining a temporal windowing for the trapped population.This amounts to a time quantization of the coherent population transfer, making possible to study the phase coherence in trapped light.

id: quant-ph/0111011
title: Solution of the one-dimensional Dirac equation with a linear scalar potential
authors: John R. Hiller
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, RevTEX
journal: Am.J.Phys. 70 (2002) 522
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111011
abstract: We solve the Dirac equation in one space dimension for the case of a linear, Lorentz-scalar potential. This extends earlier work of Bhalerao and Ram [Am. J. Phys. 69 (7), 817-818 (2001)] by eliminating unnecessary constraints. The spectrum is shown to match smoothly to the nonrelativistic spectrum in a weak-coupling limit.

id: quant-ph/0111012
title: Measurements of semi-local and non-maximally entangled states
authors: Berry Groisman, Benni Reznik
comments: 13 pages, one figure, typo corrected in eq. 9, and tables on pages 10 and 11
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022110 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111012
abstract: Consistency with relativistic causality narrows down dramatically the class of measurable observables. We argue that by weakening the preparation role of ideal measurements, many of these observables become measurable. Particularly, we show by applying entanglement assisted remote operations, that all Hermitian observable of a $2\times2$-dimensional bipartite system are measurable.

id: quant-ph/0111013
title: Adaptive Quantum Measurements of a Continuously Varying Phase
authors: D. W. Berry, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 043803 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111013
abstract: We analyze the problem of quantum-limited estimation of a stochastically varying phase of a continuous beam (rather than a pulse) of the electromagnetic field. We consider both non-adaptive and adaptive measurements, and both dyne detection (using a local oscillator) and interferometric detection. We take the phase variation to be \dot\phi = \sqrt{\kappa}\xi(t), where \xi(t) is \delta-correlated Gaussian noise. For a beam of power P, the important dimensionless parameter is N=P/\hbar\omega\kappa, the number of photons per coherence time. For the case of dyne detection, both continuous-wave (cw) coherent beams and cw (broadband) squeezed beams are considered. For a coherent beam a simple feedback scheme gives good results, with a phase variance \simeq N^{-1/2}/2. This is \sqrt{2} times smaller than that achievable by nonadaptive (heterodyne) detection. For a squeezed beam a more accurate feedback scheme gives a variance scaling as N^{-2/3}, compared to N^{-1/2} for heterodyne detection. For the case of interferometry only a coherent input into one port is considered. The locally optimal feedback scheme is identified, and it is shown to give a variance scaling as N^{-1/2}. It offers a significant improvement over nonadaptive interferometry only for N of order unity.

id: quant-ph/0111014
title: The generation of an entangled four-photon state from two pairs of entangled two-photon states by using linear optical elements
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: 4 pages 2 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111014
abstract: We present a scheme to produce an entangled four-photon state from two pairs of entangled two-photon states. Such entangled four-photon states are equivalent to the quantum state of two maximally entangled spin-1 particles. The scheme can also be generated to prepare an entangled 2N-photon state from N pairs of entangled two-photon states. Such multi-photon states play a crucial role in fundamental tests of quantum mechanics versus local realism and in many quantum information and quantum computation schemes.

id: quant-ph/0111015
title: Purification of entangled coherent states
authors: H. Jeong, M. S. Kim
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. The content has been modified
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.2, No.3, 208-221 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111015
abstract: We suggest an entanglement purification scheme for mixed entangled coherent states using 50-50 beam splitters and photodetectors. This scheme is directly applicable for mixed entangled coherent states of the Werner type, and can be useful for general mixed states using additional nonlinear interactions. We apply our scheme to entangled coherent states decohered in a vacuum environment and find the decay time until which they can be purified.

id: quant-ph/0111016
title: Quantum and classical correlations in quantum Brownian motion
authors: J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revised version, new material added, title changed
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 89 (2002) 137902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111016
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of the joint state of a distinguished quantum system and its environment in the quantum Brownian motion model. This model is a frequent starting point for investigations of environment-induced superselection. Using recent methods from quantum information theory, we show that there exists a large class of initial states for which no entanglement will be created at all times between the system of salient interest and the environment. If the distinguished system has been initially prepared in a pure Gaussian state, then entanglement is created immediately, regardless of the temperature of the environment and the non-vanishing coupling.

id: quant-ph/0111017
title: Simulation of many-body interactions by conditional geometric phases
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 8 pages, no figures, some references are added and the revised version submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 032327 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111017
abstract: It is shown how to exactly simulate many-body interactions and multi-qubit gates by coupling finite dimensional systems, e.g., qubits with a continuous variable. Cyclic evolution in the phase space of such a variable gives rise to a geometric phase, depending on a product of commuting operators. The latter allows to simulate many-body Hamiltonians and nonlinear Hamiltonians, and to implement a big variety of multi-qubit quantum gates on both qubits and encoded qubits. An application to the quantum amplitude amplification algorithm will be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111018
title: Destabilization of dark states and optical spectroscopy in Zeeman-degenerate atomic systems
authors: D.J. Berkeland, M.G. Boshier
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111018
abstract: We present a general discussion of the techniques of destabilizing dark states in laser-driven atoms with either a magnetic field or modulated laser polarization. We show that the photon scattering rate is maximized at a particular evolution rate of the dark state. We also find that the atomic resonance curve is significantly broadened when the evolution rate is far from this optimum value. These results are illustrated with detailed examples of destabilizing dark states in some commonly-trapped ions and supported by insights derived from numerical calculations and simple theoretical models.

id: quant-ph/0111019
title: Geometric Quantum Computation on Solid-State Qubits
authors: Mahn-Soo Choi
comments: 6 figures; to appear in J. Phys.: Condens. Matt
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matt. 15 (46), 7823 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111019
abstract: An adiabatic cyclic evolution of control parameters of a quantum system ends up with a holonomic operation on the system, determined entirely by the geometry in the parameter space. The operation is given either by a simple phase factor (a Berry phase) or a non-Abelian unitary operator depending on the degeneracy of the eigenspace of the Hamiltonian. Geometric quantum computation is a scheme to use such holonomic operations rather than the conventional dynamic operations to manipulate quantum states for quantum information processing. Here we propose a geometric quantum computation scheme which can be realized with current technology on nanoscale Josephson-junction networks, known as a promising candidate for solid-state quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0111020
title: Reply to ``The quantum algorithm of Kieu does not solve the Hilbert's tenth problem"
authors: Tien D Kieu
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111020
abstract: The arguments employed in quant-ph/0111009, to claim that the quantum algorithm in quant-ph/0110136 does not work, are so general that were they true then the adiabatic theorem itself would have been wrong. As a matter of fact, those arguments are only valid for the sudden approximation, not the adiabatic process.

id: quant-ph/0111021
title: Driving Hamiltonian in a Quantum Search Problem
authors: Kazuto Oshima
comments: 3pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111021
abstract: We examine the driving Hamiltonian in the analog analogue of Grover's algorithm by Farhi and Gutmann. For a quantum system with a given Hamiltonian $E|w> < w|$, we explicitly show that while the driving Hamiltonian $E|s> < s|$ optimally produces the state $|w>$ from an initial state $|s>$, the driving Hamiltonian $E^{\prime}|s> < s|(E^{\prime} \ne E)$ does not provide any speedup compared even with a classical computation.

id: quant-ph/0111022
title: Non-maximal rank separable states are a set of measure 0 within the set of non-maximal rank states
authors: Robert B. Lockhart
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111022
abstract: This paper is being withdrawn due to an error in the proof. Hao Chen has shown the author in the two qubit case that there is an open set of three dimensional subspaces that are spanned by separable states. This means the author's proof is in error. The problem is that homogeneity cannot be used and so the Jacobian needs to be computed at all points

id: quant-ph/0111023
title: What is the Temperature Dependence of the Casimir Force between Real Metals?
authors: G.L.Klimchitskaya
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, Contribution to the 5th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions, Leipzig, Germany, 10-14 Sep 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111023
abstract: The situation with the temperature corrections to the Casimir force between real metals of finite conductivity is reported. It is shown that the plasma dielectric function is well adapted to the Lifshitz formula and leads to reasonable results for real conductors. The Drude dielectric function which describes media with dissipation is found not to belong to the application range of the Lifshitz formula at nonzero temperature. For Drude metals the special modification of the zero-frequency term of this formula is suggested. The contradictory results on the subject in recent literature are analysed and explained.

id: quant-ph/0111024
title: Multi-parameter Entanglement in Quantum Interferometry
authors: Mete Atature, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Matthew D. Shaw, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111024
abstract: The role of multi-parameter entanglement in quantum interference from collinear type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion is explored using a variety of aperture shapes and sizes, in regimes of both ultrafast and continuous-wave pumping. We have developed and experimentally verified a theory of down-conversion which considers a quantum state that can be concurrently entangled in frequency, wavevector, and polarization. In particular, we demonstrate deviations from the familiar triangular interference dip, such as asymmetry and peaking. These findings improve our capacity to control the quantum state produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion, and should prove useful to those pursuing the many proposed applications of down-converted light.

id: quant-ph/0111025
title: Time and Information, The Origins of 'Time' from Information Flow In Causal Networks and Complex Systems
authors: Scott M. Hitchcock
comments: 17 pages, 6 Figures, An invited talk given at the Institute for High Energy Physics, Protvino, Russia, June 27-29, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111025
abstract: The 'problem of time' can be 'solved' in principle by taking the viewpoint that information created by quantum systems or Feynman Clocks (FCs) is transferred by signals to detectors as quantum 'infostates' and then used to construct 'time' with a T-computer. This constructed quantum 'time' results from the quantum computational process of coupling observed signals to standard clock signals into time labeled infostates in an observers' T-computer. The T-computer model is used to define standard 'time coordinates' for 'events' in space-time maps. The 'direction' and 'dimension' of 'arrows of time' follow from the ordering and properties of the numbers used to label event 'times'.

id: quant-ph/0111026
title: Smart Nanostructures and Synthetic Quantum Systems
authors: Reginald T. Cahill
comments: LaTex,14 pages 1 eps file. To be published in BioMEMS and Smart Nanostructures, Proceedings of SPIE Conference #4590, ed. L. B. Kish
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111026
abstract: So far proposed quantum computers use fragile and environmentally sensitive natural quantum systems. Here we explore the notion that synthetic quantum systems suitable for quantum computation may be fabricated from smart nanostructures using topological excitations of a neural-type network that can mimic natural quantum systems. These developments are a technological application of process physics which is a semantic information theory of reality in which space and quantum phenomena are emergent.

id: quant-ph/0111027
title: Classical nonlocal models for quantum field states
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: This paper is withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111027
abstract: This paper is withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0111028
title: Non-Locality and Theories of Causation
authors: Federico Laudisa
comments: Presented at the NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Modality, Probability and Bell's Theorems, Cracow, Poland, August 19-23, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111028
abstract: The aim of the paper is to investigate the characterization of an unambiguous notion of causation linking single space-llike separated events in EPR-Bell frameworks. This issue is investigated in ordinary quantum mechanics, with some hints to no collapse formulations of the theory such as Bohmian mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0111029
title: Using Electrons on Liquid Helium for Quantum Computing
authors: A.J. Dahm, J.M. Goodkind, I. Karakurt, S. Pilla
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111029
abstract: We describe a quantum computer based on electrons supported by a helium film and localized laterally by small electrodes just under the helium surface. Each qubit is made of combinations of the ground and first excited state of an electron trapped in the image potential well at the surface. Mechanisms for preparing the initial state of the qubit, operations with the qubits, and a proposed readout are described. This system is, in principle, capable of 100,000 operations in a decoherence time.

id: quant-ph/0111030
title: Multi-party Quantum Computation
authors: Adam Smith
comments: Masters Thesis. Based on Joint work with Claude Crepeau and Daniel Gottesman. Full version is in preparation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111030
abstract: We investigate definitions of and protocols for multi-party quantum computing in the scenario where the secret data are quantum systems. We work in the quantum information-theoretic model, where no assumptions are made on the computational power of the adversary. For the slightly weaker task of verifiable quantum secret sharing, we give a protocol which tolerates any t < n/4 cheating parties (out of n). This is shown to be optimal. We use this new tool to establish that any multi-party quantum computation can be securely performed as long as the number of dishonest players is less than n/6.

id: quant-ph/0111031
title: Efficient Discrete Approximations of Quantum Gates
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Benjamin Recht, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 7 pages, no figures, v3 revised to correct major error in previous versions
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43, 4445 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111031
abstract: Quantum compiling addresses the problem of approximating an arbitrary quantum gate with a string of gates drawn from a particular finite set. It has been shown that this is possible for almost all choices of base sets and furthermore that the number of gates required for precision epsilon is only polynomial in log 1/epsilon. Here we prove that using certain sets of base gates quantum compiling requires a string length that is linear in log 1/epsilon, a result which matches the lower bound from counting volume up to constant factor.

id: quant-ph/0111032
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computation and Deutsch's Algorithm
authors: Saurya Das, Randy Kobes, Gabor Kunstatter
comments: 6 Pages, Revtex. Typos corrected, references added. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A65 (2002) 062310
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111032
abstract: We show that by a suitable choice of a time dependent Hamiltonian, Deutsch's algorithm can be implemented by an adiabatic quantum computer. We extend our analysis to the Deutsch-Jozsa problem and estimate the required running time for both global and local adiabatic evolutions.

id: quant-ph/0111033
title: Superpositions of the Orbital Angular Momentum for Applications in Quantum Experiments
authors: Alipasha Vaziri, Gregor Weihs, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures. to appear in Journal of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111033
abstract: Two different experimental techniques for preparation and analyzing superpositions of the Gaussian and Laguerre-Gassian modes are presented. This is done exploiting an interferometric method on the one hand and using computer generated holograms on the other hand. It is shown that by shifting the hologram with respect to an incoming Gaussian beam different superpositions of the Gaussian and the Laguerre-Gaussian beam can be produced. An analytical expression between the relative phase and the amplitudes of the modes and the displacement of the hologram is given. The application of such orbital angular momenta superpositions in quantum experiments such as quantum cryptography is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111034
title: Intertwined isospectral potentials in an arbitrary dimension
authors: S.Kuru, A. Tegmen, A. Vercin
comments: 14 pages, Latex file
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42 (2001) 3344-3360
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111034
abstract: The method of intertwining with n-dimensional (nD) linear intertwining operator L is used to construct nD isospectral, stationary potentials. It has been proven that differential part of L is a series in Euclidean algebra generators. Integrability conditions of the consistency equations are investigated and the general form of a class of potentials respecting all these conditions have been specified for each n=2,3,4,5. The most general forms of 2D and 3D isospectral potentials are considered in detail and construction of their hierarchies is exhibited. The followed approach provides coordinate systems which make it possible to perform separation of variables and to apply the known methods of supersymmetric quantum mechanics for 1D systems. It has been shown that in choice of coordinates and L there are a number of alternatives increasing with $n$ that enlarge the set of available potentials. Some salient features of higher dimensional extension as well as some applications of the results are presented.

id: quant-ph/0111035
title: Almost any quantum spin system with short-range interactions can support toric codes
authors: Maxim Raginsky
comments: 8 pages; elsart.sty; revised version submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 294, 153-157 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111035
abstract: Inspired by Kitaev's argument that physical error correction is possible in a system of interacting anyons, we demonstrate that such "self-correction" is fairly common in spin systems with classical Hamiltonians that admit the Peierls argument and where errors are modelled by quantum perturbations.

id: quant-ph/0111036
title: From limits of quantum nonlinear operations to multicopy entanglement witnesses and state spectrum estimation
authors: Pawel Horodecki
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111036
abstract: Limits of nonlinear in quantum mechanics are studied. Impossibility of physical implementation of the transformation $\varrho^{\otimes n} \to \varrho^{n}$ in quantum mechanics is proved. For sake of further analysis the simplest notion of structural completely positive approximation (SCPA) and structural physical approximations (SPA) of unphysical map are introduced. Both always exist for linear hermitian maps and can be optimised under natural assumptions. However it is shown that some intuitively natural SPA of the nonlinear operation $\varrho^{\otimes 2} \to \varrho^{2}$ that was already proven to be unphysical is impossible. It is conjectured that there exist no SPA of the operation $\varrho^{\otimes n} \to \varrho^{n}$ at all. It is pointed out that, on the other hand, it is physically possible to measure the trace of the second power of the state $Tr(\varrho^{2})$ if only two copies of the system are available. This gives the interpretation of one of Tsallis entropy as mean value of some ``multicopy'' observable. The (partial) generalisation of this idea shows that each of higher order Tsallis entropies can be measured with help of only two multicopy observables. Following this observations the notion of multicopy entanglement witnesses is defined and first example is provided. Finally, with help of multicopy observables simple method of spectrum state estimation is pointed out and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111037
title: Casimir Problem in Spherical Dielectrics: A Quantum Statistical Mechanical Approach
authors: I. Brevik, J. B. Aarseth, J. S. H?ye
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, one eps figure. Authorship expanded, some typos corrected. To appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A [Proc. of Fifth Workshop on QFT under Ext. Conditions, Sept. 2001, Leipzig. Editor: M. Bordag]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111037
abstract: The Casimir mutual free energy F for a system of two dielectric concentric nonmagnetic spherical bodies is calculated, at arbitrary temperatures. Whereas F has recently been evaluated for the special case of metals (refractive index n=\infty), here analogous results are presented for dielectrics, and shown graphically when n=2.0. Our calculational method relies upon quantum statistical mechanics. The Debye expansions for the Riccati-Bessel functions when carried out to a high order are found to be very useful in practice (thereby overflow/underflow problems are easily avoided), and also to give accurate results even for the lowest values of l. Another virtue of the Debye expansions is that the limiting case of metals becomes quite amenable to an analytical treatment in spherical geometry. We first discuss the zero-frequency TE mode problem from a mathematical viewpoint and then, as physical input, invoke the actual dispersion relations. The result of our analysis, based upon adoption of the Drude dispersion relation as the most correct one at low frequencies, is that the zero-frequency TE mode does not contribute for a metal. Accordingly, F turns out in this case to be only one half of the conventional value.

id: quant-ph/0111038
title: Discrete Cosine Transforms on Quantum Computers
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX 2e, IEEE ISPA01, Pula, Croatia, 2001
journal: IEEE R8-EURASIP Symposium on Image and Signal Processing and Analysis, pp. 464-468, Pula, Croatia, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111038
abstract: A classical computer does not allow to calculate a discrete cosine transform on N points in less than linear time. This trivial lower bound is no longer valid for a computer that takes advantage of quantum mechanical superposition, entanglement, and interference principles. In fact, we show that it is possible to realize the discrete cosine transforms and the discrete sine transforms of size NxN and types I,II,III, and IV with as little as O(log^2 N) operations on a quantum computer, whereas the known fast algorithms on a classical computer need O(N log N) operations.

id: quant-ph/0111039
title: On the Irresistible Efficiency of Signal Processing Methods in Quantum Computing
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX 2e. Expanded version of quant-ph/0111038. SPECLOG 2000, Tampere, Finland
journal: Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Spectral Techniques and Logic Design (SPECLOG 2000), pp. 483-497, 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111039
abstract: We show that many well-known signal transforms allow highly efficient realizations on a quantum computer. We explain some elementary quantum circuits and review the construction of the Quantum Fourier Transform. We derive quantum circuits for the Discrete Cosine and Sine Transforms, and for the Discrete Hartley transform. We show that at most O(log^2 N) elementary quantum gates are necessary to implement any of those transforms for input sequences of length N.

id: quant-ph/0111040
title: Topological Phases near a Triple Degeneracy
authors: Joseph Samuel, Abhishek Dhar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111040
abstract: We study the pattern of three state topological phases that appear in systems with real Hamiltonians and wave functions. We give a simple geometric construction for representing these phases. We then apply our results to understand previous work on three state phases. We point out that the ``mirror symmetry'' of wave functions noticed in microwave experiments can be simply understood in our framework.

id: quant-ph/0111041
title: Quantum computing and communication with decoherence-free atomic states
authors: Mang Feng
comments: 11 pages, No Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111041
abstract: To resist decoherence from destroying the phase factor of qubit state, it is important to use decoherence-free states for processing, transmitting and storing quantum information in quantum computing and quantum communication. We propose a practical scheme using four atoms with decoherence-free states in a single-mode cavity to realize the entanglement and fundamental quantum logic gates. The transmission of quantum information can be made directly from one atom to another, in which the cavity is only virtually excited. The possible application and the experimental requirement of our proposal are discussed

id: quant-ph/0111042
title: Series solution to the laser-ion interaction in a Raman-type configuration
authors: Mang Feng
comments: 15 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111042
abstract: The Raman interaction of a trapped ultracold ion with two travelling wave lasers is studied analytically with series solutions, in the absence of the rotating wave approximation (RWA) and the restriction of both the Lamb-Dicke limit and the weak excitation regime. The comparison is made between our solutions and those under the RWA to demonstrate the validity region of the RWA. As a practical example, the preparation of Schr\"odinger-cat states with our solutions is proposed beyond the weak excitation regime.

id: quant-ph/0111043
title: Quantum computing with four-particle decoherence-free states in ion trap
authors: Mang Feng, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111043
abstract: Quantum computing gates are proposed to apply on trapped ions in decoherence-free states. As phase changes due to time evolution of components with different eigenenergies of quantum superposition are completely frozen, quantum computing based on this model would be perfect. Possible application of our scheme in future ion-trap quantum computer is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111044
title: Squeezed states and quantum chaos
authors: Kirill N. Alekseev, Dima S. Primak
comments: 11 pages, RevTEX4, 8 figs. Compared to published in JETP, in this version of the text we improved English and made more clear initial locations of wave packet centers on a phase plane of standard map
journal: JETP 86 (1998) 61-70 [Zh. Eksp. Theor. Fiz. 113 (1998) 111]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111044
abstract: We examine the dynamics of a wave packet that initially corresponds to a coherent state in the model of quantum kicked rotator. This main model of quantum chaos, which allows for a transition from regular to to chaotic behavior in the classical limit, may be realized in experiments with cold atoms. We study the generation of squeezed states in the quasiclassical limit and in a time interval when quantum-classical correspondence is yet well-defined. We find that the degree of squeezing depends on the degree of local instability in the system and increases with the Chirikov parameter of stochasticity. We discuss the dependence of the degree of squeezing on the initial width of the packet, the problems of stability and observability of squeezed states at the transition to quantum chaos, as well as the dynamics of wave packet destruction.

id: quant-ph/0111045
title: Transmission and Reflection in a Double Potential Well: Doing it the Bohmian Way
authors: Regien G. Stomphorst
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111045
abstract: The Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics is applied to a transmission and reflection process in a double potential well. We consider a time dependent periodic wave function and study the particle trajectories. The average time, eventally transmitted particles stay inside the barrier is the average transmission time, which can be defined using the causal interpretation. The question remains whether these transmission times can be experimentally measured.

id: quant-ph/0111046
title: Secure assisted quantum computation
authors: Andrew M. Childs
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; v2: published version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 5, 456 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111046
abstract: Suppose Alice wants to perform some computation that could be done quickly on a quantum computer, but she cannot do universal quantum computation. Bob can do universal quantum computation and claims he is willing to help, but Alice wants to be sure that Bob cannot learn her input, the result of her calculation, or perhaps even the function she is trying to compute. We describe a simple, efficient protocol by which Bob can help Alice perform the computation, but there is no way for him to learn anything about it. We also discuss techniques for Alice to detect whether Bob is honestly helping her or if he is introducing errors.

id: quant-ph/0111047
title: Time, Quantum Mechanics, and Probability
authors: Simon Saunders
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: Synthese, 114, pp.373-404 (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111047
abstract: A "geometric" intepretation of probability is proposed, modelled on the treatment of tense in 4-dimensional spacetime. It is applied to Everett's approach to quantum mechanics, as formulated in terms of consistent histories. Standard objections to Everett's approach, based on the difficulties of interpreting probability in its terms, are considered in detail, but found to be wanting.

id: quant-ph/0111048
title: Notation for general quantum teleportation
authors: Chong Li, He-Shan Song, Yao-Xing Luo
comments: 9 pages, 4 tables
journal: Physics Letters A 297 (2002) 121C125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111048
abstract: A new notation for the quantum teleportation of finite dimensional quantum state through a generally entangled quantum channel is introduced. For a given quantum channel an explict mathematical criterion that governs the faithful teleportation is presented.

id: quant-ph/0111049
title: The entanglement concentration and purification for entangled polarization photon state
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111049
abstract: We present a concentration and purification scheme for nonmaximally entangled pure and mixed porization entangled state. We firstly show that two distant parties Alice and Bob first start with two shared but less entangled photon pure states to produce a four photon GHZ state, and then perform a 45 polarization measurement onto one of the two photons at each location such that the remaining two photon are projected onto a maximally entangled state. We further show the scheme also can be used to purify a class of mixed polarization-entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0111050
title: Generalised boundary conditions for the Aharonov-Bohm effect combined with a homogeneous magnetic field
authors: Pavel Exner, Pavel Stovicek, Petr Vytras
comments: 32 pages, a LaTeX source file with 2 eps figures; submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002), 2151-2168
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111050
abstract: The most general admissible boundary conditions are derived for an idealised Aharonov-Bohm flux intersecting the plane at the origin on the background of a homogeneous magnetic field. A standard technique based on self-adjoint extensions yields a four-parameter family of boundary conditions; other two parameters of the model are the Aharonov-Bohm flux and the homogeneous magnetic field. The generalised boundary conditions may be regarded as a combination of the Aharonov-Bohm effect with a point interaction. Spectral properties of the derived Hamiltonians are studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0111051
title: Low rank separable states are a set of measure zero within the set of low rank states
authors: Robert Lockhart
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111051
abstract: It is shown that the set of rank r separable states is measure zero within the set of low rank states provided r is less than an upper bound which depends upon the number of particles and the dimensions of the spaces they are modelled on. The upper bound is given. In the bipartite case in which both particles are modelled on m-dimensional hilbert space it is (m-1)^2. In the case of p qubits it is (2^p)-p. This paper is a corretion of one I recently posted and subsequently withdrew. That paper claimed the set of rank r separable states is measure zero if r is non-maximal rank. That may be true, but the proof in the withdrawn paper was false.

id: quant-ph/0111052
title: High contrast Mach-Zehnder lithium atom interferometer in the Bragg regime
authors: R. Delhuille, C. Champenois, M. Buchner, L. Jozefowski, C. Rizzo, G. Trenec, J. Vigue
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Appl. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111052
abstract: We have constructed an atom interferometer of the Mach-Zehnder type, operating with a supersonic beam of lithium. Atom diffraction uses Bragg diffraction on laser standing waves. With first order diffraction, our apparatus has given a large signal and a very good fringe contrast (74%), which we believe to be the highest ever observed with atom interferometers. This apparatus will be applied to high sensitivity measurements

id: quant-ph/0111053
title: A simple operational interpretation of the fidelity
authors: Jennifer L. Dodd, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111053
abstract: This note presents a corollary to Uhlmann's theorem which provides a simple operational interpretation for the fidelity of mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0111054
title: Entangled-photon Fourier optics
authors: Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 41 pages, 12 figures, accepted for publication in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 19, 1174-1184 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111054
abstract: Entangled photons, generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion from a second-order nonlinear crystal, present a rich potential for imaging and image-processing applications. Since this source is an example of a three-wave mixing process, there is more flexibility in the choices of illumination and detection wavelengths and in the placement of object(s) to be imaged. Moreover, this source is entangled, a fact that allows for imaging configurations and capabilities that cannot be achieved using classical sources of light. In this paper we examine a number of imaging and image-processing configurations that can be realized using this source. The formalism that we utilize facilitates the determination of the dependence of imaging resolution on the physical parameters of the optical arrangement.

id: quant-ph/0111055
title: Engineering an interaction and entanglement between distant atoms
authors: Stefano Mancini, Sougato Bose
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111055
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate an effective interaction of arbitrary strength between the internal degrees of freedom of two atoms placed in distant cavities connected by an optical fiber. The strength depends on the field intensity in the cavities. As an application of this interaction, we calculate the amount of entanglement it generates between the internal states of the distant atoms. The scheme effectively converts entanglement distribution networks to networks of interacting spins.

id: quant-ph/0111056
title: Single mode realizations of the Higgs algebra
authors: Dong Ruan
comments: 10 Pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111056
abstract: In this paper we obtained for the Higgs algebra three kinds of single-mode realizations such as the unitary Holstein-Primakoff-like realization, the non-unitary Dyson-like realization and the unitary realization based upon Villain-like realization. The corresponding similarity transformations between the Holstein-Primakoff-like realizations and the Dyson-like realizations are revealed.

id: quant-ph/0111057
title: Classical Aspects of Quantum Walls in One Dimension
authors: Tamas Fulop, Taksu Cheon, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: TeX, 21 pages, 4 figures. v2: some parts of the text improved, new and improved figures
journal: Physical Review A 66 (2002) 052102 (10)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111057
abstract: We investigate the system of a particle moving on a half line x >= 0 under the general walls at x = 0 that are permitted quantum mechanically. These quantum walls, characterized by a parameter L, are shown to be realized as a limit of regularized potentials. We then study the classical aspects of the quantum walls, by seeking a classical counterpart which admits the same time delay in scattering with the quantum wall, and also by examining the WKB-exactness of the transition kernel based on the regularized potentials. It is shown that no classical counterpart exists for walls with L < 0, and that the WKB-exactness can hold only for L = 0 and L = infinity.

id: quant-ph/0111058
title: Entanglement of internal and external angular momenta of a single atom
authors: Ashok Muthukrishnan, C. R. Stroud Jr
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111058
abstract: We consider the exchange of spin and orbital angular momenta between a circularly polarized Laguerre-Gaussian beam of light and a single atom trapped in a two-dimensional harmonic potential. The radiation field is treated classically but the atomic center-of-mass motion is quantized. The spin and orbital angular momenta of the field are individually conserved upon absorption, and this results in the entanglement of the internal and external degrees of freedom of the atom. We suggest applications of this entanglement in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0111059
title: Electrodynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates in angular motion
authors: L G Boussiakou, C R Bennett, M Babiker
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Journal of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111059
abstract: A theory determining the electric and magnetic properties of vortex states in Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) is presented. The principal ingredient is the Lagrangian of the system which we derive correct to the first order in the atomic centre of mass velocity. For the first time using centre of mass coordinates, a gauge transformation is performed and relevant relativistic corrections are included. The Lagrangian is symmetric in the electric and magnetic aspects of the problem and includes two key interaction terms, namely the Aharanov-Casher and the Roentgen interaction terms. The constitutive relations, which link the electromagnetic fields to the matter fields via their electric polarisation and magnetisation, follow from the Lagrangian as well as the corresponding Hamiltonian. These relations, together with a generalised Gross-Pitaevskii equation, determine the magnetic (electric) monopole charge distributions accompanying an order n vortex state when the constituent atoms are characterised by an electric dipole (magnetic dipole). Field distributions associated with electric dipole active (magnetic dipole active) BECs in a vortex state are evaluated for an infinite- and a finite-length cylindrical BEC. The predictd monopole charge distributions, both electric and magnetic, automatically satisfy the requirement of global charge neutrality and the derivations highlight the exact symmetry between the electric and magnetic properties. Order of magnitude estimates of the effects are given for an atomic gas BEC, superfluid helium and a spin-polarised hydrogen BEC.

id: quant-ph/0111060
title: Localization and Causality for a free particle
authors: N.Barat, J.C.Kimball
comments: 9 pages,no figures,new section added
journal: Physics Letters A vol.308(2003)110-115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111060
abstract: Theorems (most notably by Hegerfeldt) prove that an initially localized particle whose time evolution is determined by a positive Hamiltonian will violate causality. We argue that this apparent paradox is resolved for a free particle described by either the Dirac equation or the Klein-Gordon equation because such a particle cannot be localized in the sense required by the theorems.

id: quant-ph/0111061
title: Self-adjoint Time Operator is the Rule for Discrete Semibounded Hamiltonians
authors: Eric A. Galapon
comments: accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of London A
journal: Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 487 (2002) 2671
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111061
abstract: We prove explicitly that to every discrete, semibounded Hamiltonian with constant degeneracy and with finite sum of the squares of the reciprocal of its eigenvalues and whose eigenvectors span the entire Hilbert space there exists a characteristic self-adjoint time operator which is canonically conjugate to the Hamiltonian in a dense subspace of the Hilbert space. Moreover, we show that each characteristic time operator generates an uncountable class of self- adjoint operators canonically conjugate with the same Hamiltonian in the same dense subspace.

id: quant-ph/0111062
title: Hilbert's Incompleteness, Chaitin's $$ number and Quantum Physics
authors: Tien D Kieu
comments: Clarification and new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111062
abstract: To explore the limitation of a class of quantum algorithms originally proposed for the Hilbert's tenth problem, we consider two further classes of mathematically non-decidable problems, those of a modified version of the Hilbert's tenth problem and of the computation of the Chaitin's $\Omega$ number, which is a representation of the G\"odel's Incompletness theorem. Some interesting connection to Quantum Field Theory is pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0111063
title: A reformulation of Hilbert's tenth problem through Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tien D Kieu
comments: 
journal: Proc Roy Soc A 460 (2004) 1535 (Final version with modifications)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111063
abstract: Inspired by Quantum Mechanics, we reformulate Hilbert's tenth problem in the domain of integer arithmetics into either a problem involving a set of infinitely coupled differential equations or a problem involving a Shr\"odinger propagator with some appropriate kernel. Either way, Mathematics and Physics could be combined for Hilbert's tenth problem and for the notion of effective computability.

id: quant-ph/0111064
title: Direct detection of quantum entanglement
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Artur Ekert
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111064
abstract: Quantum entanglement, after playing a significant role in the development of the foundations of quantum mechanics, has been recently rediscovered as a new physical resource with potential commercial applications such as, for example, quantum cryptography, better frequency standards or quantum-enhanced positioning and clock synchronization. On the mathematical side the studies of entanglement have revealed very interesting connections with the theory of positive maps. The capacity to generate entangled states is one of the basic requirements for building quantum computers. Hence, efficient experimental methods for detection, verification and estimation of quantum entanglement are of great practical importance. Here, we propose an experimentally viable, \emph{direct} detection of quantum entanglement which is efficient and does not require any \emph{a priori} knowledge about the quantum state. In a particular case of two entangled qubits it provides an estimation of the amount of entanglement. We view this method as a new form of quantum computation, namely, as a decision problem with quantum data structure.

id: quant-ph/0111065
title: Quantum Distillation Of Position Entanglement With The Polarization Degrees Of Freedom
authors: D. P. Caetano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: Submitted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111065
abstract: Sources of entangled photon pairs using two parametric down-converters are capable of generating interchangeable entanglement in two different degrees of freedom. The connection between these two degrees of freedom allows the control of the entanglement properties of one, by acting on the other degree of freedom. We demonstrate experimentally, the quantum distillation of the position entanglement using polarization analyzers.

id: quant-ph/0111066
title: A security proof of quantum cryptography based entirely on entanglement purification
authors: Hans Aschauer, Hans J. Briegel
comments: Follow-up paper to quant-ph/0108060, submitted to PRA; 24 pages, revex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111066
abstract: We give a proof that entanglement purification, even with noisy apparatus, is sufficient to disentangle an eavesdropper (Eve) from the communication channel. In the security regime, the purification process factorises the overall initial state into a tensor-product state of Alice and Bob, on one side, and Eve on the other side, thus establishing a completely private, albeit noisy, quantum communication channel between Alice and Bob. The security regime is found to coincide for all practical purposes with the purification regime of a two-way recurrence protocol. This makes two-way entanglement purification protocols, which constitute an important element in the quantum repeater, an efficient tool for secure long-distance quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0111067
title: Mirror quiescence and high-sensitivity position measurements with feedback
authors: David Vitali, Stefano Mancini, Luciano Ribichini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 063803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111067
abstract: We present a detailed study of how phase-sensitive feedback schemes can be used to improve the performance of optomechanical devices. Considering the case of a cavity mode coupled to an oscillating mirror by the radiation pressure, we show how feedback can be used to reduce the position noise spectrum of the mirror, cool it to its quantum ground state, or achieve position squeezing. Then, we show that even though feedback is not able to improve the sensitivity of stationary position spectral measurements, it is possible to design a nonstationary strategy able to increase this sensitivity.

id: quant-ph/0111068
title: Why Quantum Theory?
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 15 pages. Contribution to NATO Advanced Research Workshop "Modality, Probability, and Bell's Theorem", Cracow, Poland, 19.-23.8.01
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111068
abstract: The usual formulation of quantum theory is rather abstract. In recent work I have shown that we can, nevertheless, obtain quantum theory from five reasonable axioms. Four of these axioms are obviously consistent with both classical probability theory and quantum theory. The remaining axiom requires that there exists a continuous reversible transformation between any two pure states. The requirement of continuity rules out classical probability theory. In this paper I will summarize the main points of this new approach. I will leave out the details of the proof that these axioms are equivalent to the usual formulation of quantum theory (for these see quant-ph/0101012).

id: quant-ph/0111069
title: Quantum computing classical physics
authors: David A. Meyer
comments: 13 pages, plain TeX, 10 PostScript figures included with epsf.tex; for related work see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111069
abstract: In the past decade quantum algorithms have been found which outperform the best classical solutions known for certain classical problems as well as the best classical methods known for simulation of certain quantum systems. This suggests that they may also speed up the simulation of some classical systems. I describe one class of discrete quantum algorithms which do so--quantum lattice gas automata--and show how to implement them efficiently on standard quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0111070
title: Quantum systems as classical systems
authors: Antonio Cassa
comments: latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111070
abstract: A characteristical property of a classical physical theory is that the observables are real functions taking an exact outcome on every (pure) state; in a quantum theory, at the contrary, a given observable on a given state can take several values with only a predictable probability. However, even in the classical case, when an observer is intrinsically unable to distinguish between some distinct states he can convince himself that the measure of its ''observables'' can have several values in a random way with a statistical character. What kind of statistical theory is obtainable in this way? It is possible, for example, to obtain exactly the statistical previsions of quantum mechanics? Or, in other words, can a physical system showing a classical behaviour appear to be a quantum system to a confusing observer? We show that from a mathematical viewpoint it is not difficult to produce a theory with hidden variables having this property. We don't even try to justify in physical terms the artificial construction we propose; what we do is to give a general and rigorous argument showing how the interplay between the classical and quantum mechanics we offer is interpretable as the difference between an imaginary very expert observer and another nonexpert observer. This proves also that besides the well known theorems concerning the impossibility of hidden variables (cfr. Von Neumann [Neu] and Jauch-Piron [J-P]) there is also room for a result in favor of the possibility.

id: quant-ph/0111071
title: Quantum Structures: An Attempt to Explain the Origin of their Appearance in Nature
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 34, 1165, 1995
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111071
abstract: We explain the quantum structure as due to the presence of two effects, (a) a real change of state of the entity under influence of the measurement and, (b) a lack of knowledge about a deeper deterministic reality of the measurement process. We present a quantum machine, where we can illustrate in a simple way how the quantum structure arises as a consequence of the two mentioned effects. We introduce a parameter epsilon that measures the size of the lack of knowledge on the measurement process, and by varying this parameter, we describe a continuous evolution from a quantum structure (maximal lack of knowledge) to a classical structure (zero lack of knowledge). We show that for intermediate values of epsilon we find a new type of structure, that is neither quantum nor classical. We apply the model that we have introduced to situations of lack of knowledge about the measurement process appearing in other regions of reality. More specifically we investigate the quantum-like structures that appear in the situation of psychological decision processes, where the subject is influenced during the testing, and forms some of his opinions during the testing process. Our conclusion is that in the light of this explanation, the quantum probabilities are epistemic and not ontological, which means that quantum mechanics is compatible with a determinism of the whole.

id: quant-ph/0111072
title: Probability and the Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Theory
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 15 pages. Contribution to the conference: Reconsideration of Foundations of Quantum Mechanics, Sweeden 2001. Section 3 has overlap with quant-ph/0001057
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111072
abstract: Two works related to the concept of probability in the framework of the many-worlds interpretation are presented. The first deals with recent controversy in classical probability theory. Elga and D. Lewis argues that Sleeping Beauty should have different credences for the result of a fair coin toss in a particular situation. It is argued that when the coin is replaced by a quantum coin, the credence is unambiguous and since one should not expect a difference between classical and quantum coins, this provides a particular resolution of the controversy. Second work is an analysis of a recent criticism by Byrne and Hall of Everett-type approach presented by Chalmers. It is shown that the criticism has no universal validity and that the Byrne and Hall rejection of any Everett-type interpretation of quantum mechanics is unfounded.

id: quant-ph/0111073
title: A Practical Trojan Horse for Bell-inequality-based Quantum Cryptography
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. v2: published version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 2:434 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111073
abstract: Quantum Cryptography, or more accurately, Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) is based on using an unconditionally secure ``quantum channel'' to share a secret key among two users. A manufacturer of QKD devices could, intentionally or not, use a (semi-)classical channel instead of the quantum channel, which would remove the supposedly unconditional security. One example is the BB84 protocol, where the quantum channel can be implemented in polarization of single photons. Here, use of several photons instead of one to encode each bit of the key provides a similar but insecure system. For protocols based on violation of a Bell inequality (e.g., the Ekert protocol) the situation is somewhat different. While the possibility is mentioned by some authors, it is generally thought that an implementation of a (semi-)classical channel will differ significantly from that of a quantum channel. Here, a counterexample will be given using an identical physical setup as is used in photon-polarization Ekert QKD. Since the physical implementation is identical, a manufacturer may include this modification as a Trojan Horse in manufactured systems, to be activated at will by an eavesdropper. Thus, the old truth of cryptography still holds: you have to trust the manufacturer of your cryptographic device. Even when you do violate the Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0111074
title: A mechanistic macroscopic physical entity with a three-dimensional Hilbert space description
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bob Coecke, Bart D'Hooghe, Frank Valckenborgh
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Helvetica Physica Acta, 70, 793, 1997
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111074
abstract: It is sometimes stated that Gleason's theorem prevents the construction of hidden-variable models for quantum entities described in a more than two-dimensional Hilbert space. In this paper however we explicitly construct a classical (macroscopical) system that can be represented in a three-dimensional real Hilbert space, the probability structure appearing as the result of a lack of knowledge about the measurement context. We briefly discuss Gleason's theorem from this point of view.

id: quant-ph/0111075
title: Optical Holonomic Quantum Computation
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Jiannis Pachos
comments: Contribution to ICQI 2001, 3pages, REVTEX)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111075
abstract: Holonomic quantum computation (HQC) is materialized here with quantum optics components. Holonomies are the generalization of the Berry phases to unitary matrices with dimensionality the same as the degree of degeneracy of the system. In a nonlinear Kerr medium the degenerate states of laser beams are interpreted as qubits. Control manipulations with displacers, squeezers and two-mode interfering devices performed in a cyclic, adiabatic fashion produce holonomies. Here, they are employed as logical gates for our HQC proposal. The effects of errors from imperfect control of classical parameters, the looping variation of which builds up holonomic gates, are investigated.

id: quant-ph/0111076
title: The Sasaki Hook is not a [Static] Implicative Connective but Induces a Backward [in Time] Dynamic One that Assigns Causes
authors: Bob Coecke, Sonja Smets
comments: 22 pages; paper presented in double lecture at the fifth biannual international quantum structures association meeting, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111076
abstract: In this paper we argue that the Sasaki adjunction, which formally encodes the logicality that different authors tried to attach to the Sasaki hook as a `quantum implicative connective', has a fundamental dynamic nature and encodes the so-called `causal duality' (Coecke, Moore and Stubbe 2001; quant-ph/0009100) for the particular case of a quantum measurement with a projector as corresponding self-adjoint operator. In particular: The action of the Sasaki hook $(a\stackrel{S}{\to}-)$ for fixed antecedent $a$ assigns to some property ``the weakest cause before the measurement of actuality of that property after the measurement'', i.e. ${(a\stackrel{S}{\to}b)}$ is the weakest property that guarantees actuality of $b$ after performing the measurement represented by the projector that has the `subspace $a$' as eigenstates for eigenvalue 1, say, the measurement that `tests' $a$ . From this we conclude that the logicality attributable to quantum systems contains a fundamentally dynamic ingredient: Causal duality actually provides a new dynamic interpretation of orthomodularity. We also reconsider the status of the Sasaki hook within `dynamic (operational) quantum logic' (DOQL). We can derive two labeled dynamic hooks (forwardly and backwardly) that encode how quantum measurements act on properties. In an even more radical perspective one could say that the transition from either classical or constructive/intuitionistic logic to quantum logic entails besides the introduction of an additional unary connective `operational resolution' (Coecke 2001a; math.LO/0011208) the shift from a binary connective implication to a ternary connective where two of the arguments refer to qualities of the system and the third, the new one, to an obtained outcome (in a measurement).

id: quant-ph/0111077
title: Universal quantum computation with two- and three-qubit projective measurements
authors: Stephen A. Fenner, Yong Zhang
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages, no figures. Math errors and typos corrected, some clarifications, added Acknowledgments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111077
abstract: We present a finite set of projective measurements that, together with quantum memory and preparation of the |0> state, suffice for universal quantum computation. This extends work of Nielsen [quant-ph/0108020], who proposed a scheme in which an arbitrary unitary operation on n qubits can be simulated using only projective measurements on at most 2n qubits. All measurements in our set involve two qubits, except two measurements which involve three qubits. Thus we improve by one the upper bound, implied by Nielsen's results, on the maximum number of qubits needed to participate in any single measurement to achieve universal quantum computation. Each of our measurements is two-valued, and each can be expressed mathematically as a Boolean combination of single-qubit measurements.

id: quant-ph/0111078
title: Chow's theorem and universal holonomic quantum computation
authors: Dennis Lucarelli
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35:5107 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111078
abstract: A theorem from control theory relating the Lie algebra generated by vector fields on a manifold to the controllability of the dynamical system is shown to apply to Holonomic Quantum Computation. Conditions for deriving the holonomy algebra are presented by taking covariant derivatives of the curvature associated to a non-Abelian gauge connection. When applied to the Optical Holonomic Computer, these conditions determine that the holonomy group of the two-qubit interaction model contains $SU(2) \times SU(2)$. In particular, a universal two-qubit logic gate is attainable for this model.

id: quant-ph/0111079
title: Quantum Teleportation and Entanglement Swapping for Spin Systems
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, modified to be consistent with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 4, 8 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111079
abstract: We analyse quantum teleportation (QT) and entanglement swapping (ES) for spin systems. If the permitted operations are restricted to the Ising interaction, plus local rotations and spin measurements, high-fidelity teleportation is achievable for quantum states that are close to the maximally weighted spin state. ES is achieved, and is maximized for a combination of entangled states and Bell measurements that is different from the QT case. If more general local unitary transformations are considered, then it is possible to achieve perfect teleportation and ES.

id: quant-ph/0111080
title: Stabilizer codes can be realized as graph codes
authors: D. Schlingemann
comments: 7 pages (RevTeX), 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111080
abstract: We establish the connection between a recent new construction technique for quantum error correcting codes, based on graphs, and the so-called stabilizer codes: Each stabilizer code can be realized as a graph code and vice versa.

id: quant-ph/0111081
title: Reply to K A Kirkpatrick
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111081
abstract: This is a reply to an article with the same title in which Kirkpatrick claimed that the considerations I put forward some thirty years ago on quantum mixtures are incorrect. It is shown here that Kirkpatrick's reasoning is erroneous.

id: quant-ph/0111082
title: Measuring quantum entanglement without prior state reconstruction
authors: Pawel Horodecki
comments: Improved version. For two qubits number of estimated parameters reduced to four; title changed; list of references extended. RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111082
abstract: It is shown that, despite strong nonlinearity, entanglement of formation of two-qubit state can be measured without prior state reconstruction. Collective measurements on small number of copies are provided that allow to determine quantum concurrence {\it via} estimation of only {\it four} parameters. It is also pointed out that another entanglement measure based on so called negativity can also be measured in similar way. The result is related to general problem: what kind of information can be extracted efficiently from unknown quantum state ?

id: quant-ph/0111083
title: Quantum Theory finally reconciled with Special Relativity
authors: Daniele Tommasini
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111083
abstract: In 1935 Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) pointed out that Quantum Mechanics apparently implied some mysterious, instantaneous action at a distance. This paradox is supposed to be related to the probabilistic nature of the theory, but since deterministic alternatives involving "Hidden Variables" hardly agree with the experiments, the scientific community is now accepting this ``quantum nonlocality" as if it were a reality. However, I have argued recently that Quantum Electrodynamics is free from the EPR paradox, due to an indetermination on the number of the unobserved "soft photons" that can be present in any step of any experiment. Here, I will provide a more general proof, based on an approach to the "problem of measurement" that implies the full reconciliation of Quantum Field Theory with Special Relativity. I will then conclude with some considerations on the interpretation of the Quantum Theory itself.

id: quant-ph/0111084
title: Quantum operations that cannot be implemented using a small mixed environment
authors: Christof Zalka, Eleanor Rieffel
comments: LATEX, 8 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol 43(9), September 2002, pp. 4376 - 4381
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111084
abstract: To implement any quantum operation (a.k.a. ``superoperator'' or ``CP map'') on a d-dimensional quantum system, it is enough to apply a suitable overall unitary transformation to the system and a d^2-dimensional environment which is initialized in a fixed pure state. It has been suggested that a d-dimensional environment might be enough if we could initialize the environment in a mixed state of our choosing. In this note we show with elementary means that certain explicit quantum operations cannot be realized in this way. Our counterexamples map some pure states to pure states, giving strong and easily manageable conditions on the overall unitary transformation. Everything works in the more general setting of quantum operations from d-dimensional to d'-dimensional spaces, so we place our counterexamples within this more general framework.

id: quant-ph/0111085
title: Some bounds for quantum copying with multiple copies
authors: A.E. Rastegin
comments: 10 pages, ReVTeX, 2 figures. The paper is reorganized. To make the paper clearer, many parts are recast. Some lengthy fragments are deleted. The notion of the relative error is better motived. The figures are replaced. Three references are added. In sequence to quant-ph/0108014
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111085
abstract: We study the relative error of the state-dependent N=>L cloning. A copying transformation and dimension of state space are not specified. Only the unitarity of quantum mechanical transformations is used. The proposed approach is based on the notion of the angle between two states. Firstly, the notion of the angle between two states is discussed. The lower bound on the relative error of copying with multiple copies is examined. In addition, the lower bound on the absolute error is then studied. We compare the obtained bounds with the case of maximizing the global fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0111086
title: Geometric Manipulation of Trapped Ions for Quantum Computation
authors: L. M. Duan, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: A note is added which cites an important related work by Unanyan, Shore, and Bergmann
journal: Science 292, 1695 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111086
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible scheme to achieve quantum computation based solely on geometric manipulations of a quantum system. The desired geometric operations are obtained by driving the quantum system to undergo appropriate adiabatic cyclic evolutions. Our implementation of the all-geometric quantum computation is based on laser manipulation of a set of trapped ions. An all-geometric approach, apart from its fundamental interest, promises a possible way for robust quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0111087
title: Equivalent efficiency of a simulated photon-number detector
authors: K. Nemoto, S. L. Braunstein
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111087
abstract: Homodyne detection is considered as a way to improve the efficiency of communication near the single-photon level. The current lack of commercially available {\it infrared} photon-number detectors significantly reduces the mutual information accessible in such a communication channel. We consider simulating direct detection via homodyne detection. We find that our particular simulated direct detection strategy could provide limited improvement in the classical information transfer. However, we argue that homodyne detectors (and a polynomial number of linear optical elements) cannot simulate photocounters arbitrarily well, since otherwise the exponential gap between quantum and classical computers would vanish.

id: quant-ph/0111088
title: Quantum computation with trapped ions in an optical cavity
authors: Jiannis Pachos, Herbert Walther
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, REVTEX, second part modified, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 187903 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111088
abstract: Two-qubit logical gates are proposed on the basis of two atoms trapped in a cavity setup. Losses in the interaction by spontaneous transitions are efficiently suppressed by employing adiabatic transitions and the Zeno effect. Dynamical and geometrical conditional phase gates are suggested. This method provides fidelity and a success rate of its gates very close to unity. Hence, it is suitable for performing quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0111089
title: SO(3,2) structure and distributions of two-component Bose-Einstein condensate with lower excitations
authors: Hong-Biao Zhang, Bing-Hao Xie, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111089
abstract: The wave function describing two-component Bose-Einstein condensate with weakly excitations has been found, by using the SO(3,2) algebraic mean-field approximation. We show that the two-component modified BEC (see eq.(\ref{ga})) possesses uniquely super-Poissonian distribution in a fixed magnetic field along z-direction. The distribution will be uncertain, if B=0.

id: quant-ph/0111090
title: Backwards-induction outcome in a quantum game
authors: A. Iqbal, A.H. Toor
comments: Revised in the light of referee's comments. Latex, 16 pages, 2 figures, To appear in Phy. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052328 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111090
abstract: In economics duopoly is a market dominated by two firms large enough to influence the market price. Stackelberg presented a dynamic form of duopoly that is also called `leader-follower' model. We give a quantum perspective on Stackelberg duopoly that gives a backwards-induction outcome same as the Nash equilibrium in static form of duopoly also known as Cournot's duopoly. We find two qubit quantum pure states required for this purpose.

id: quant-ph/0111091
title: Quantum key distribution for d-level systems with generalized Bell states
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Saber Bagherinezhad, Alireza Bahraminasab
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, REVTEX, references added, extensive revision, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052331 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111091
abstract: Using the generalized Bell states and controlled not gates, we introduce an enatanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) of d-level states (qudits). In case of eavesdropping, Eve's information gain is zero and a quantum error rate of (d-1)/d is introduced in Bob's received qudits, so that for large d, comparison of only a tiny fraction of received qudits with the sent ones can detect the presence of Eve.

id: quant-ph/0111092
title: Quantum phase gate for photonic qubits using only beam splitters and post-selection
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 6 pages RevTex, including one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 024308 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111092
abstract: We show that a beam splitter of reflectivity one-third can be used to realize a quantum phase gate operation if only the outputs conserving the number of photons on each side are post-selected.

id: quant-ph/0111093
title: Entanglement transfer from dissociated molecules to photons
authors: David Petrosyan, Gershon Kurizki, Moshe Shapiro
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111093
abstract: We introduce and study the concept of a reversible transfer of the quantum state of two internally-translationally entangled fragments, formed by molecular dissociation, to a photon pair. The transfer is based on intracavity stimulated Raman adiabatic passage and it requires a combination of processes whose principles are well established.

id: quant-ph/0111094
title: Two Slits Interference Is Compatible with Particles' Trajectories
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX2e, 12 pages, 4 PostScript figures, 1 program listing
journal: in A.Khrennikov, ed., Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations, Vaxjo Univ. Press, pp. 215--226, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111094
abstract: We propose a simple numerical experiment of two slits interference of particles. It disproves the popular belief that such an interference is incompatible with a knowledge which slit each particle came through or, more generally, ``quantum particles could not have trajectories''. Our model is an illustration to the contextual interpretation of quantum probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0111095
title: Efficient and robust entanglement generation in a many-particle system with resonant dipole-dipole interactions
authors: R.G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111095
abstract: We propose and discuss a scheme for robust and efficient generation of many-particle entanglement in an ensemble of Rydberg atoms with resonant dipole-dipole interactions. It is shown that in the limit of complete dipole blocking, the system is isomorphic to a multimode Jaynes-Cummings model. While dark-state population transfer is not capable of creating entanglement, other adiabatic processes are identified that lead to complex, maximally entangled states, such as the N-particle analog of the GHZ state in a few steps. The process is robust, works for even and odd particle numbers and the characteristic time for entanglement generation scales with N^a, with a being less than unity.

id: quant-ph/0111096
title: The Parallel Principle
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111096
abstract: Von Neumann's psycho-physical parallelism requires the existence of an interaction between subjective experiences and material systems. A hypothesis is proposed that amends physics in a way that connects subjective states with physical states, and a general model of the interaction is provided. A specific example shows how the theory applies to pain consciousness. The implications concerning quantum mechanical state creation and reduction are discussed, and some mechanisms are suggested to seed the process. An experiment that tests the hypothesis is described elsewhere. Key Words: von Neumann, psycho-physical, consciousness, state reduction, state collapse, macroscopic superpositions, conscious observer.

id: quant-ph/0111097
title: A proposal for founding mistrustful quantum cryptography on coin tossing
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Title altered in deference to Physical Review's fear of question marks. Published version; references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012312 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111097
abstract: A significant branch of classical cryptography deals with the problems which arise when mistrustful parties need to generate, process or exchange information. As Kilian showed a while ago, mistrustful classical cryptography can be founded on a single protocol, oblivious transfer, from which general secure multi-party computations can be built. The scope of mistrustful quantum cryptography is limited by no-go theorems, which rule out, inter alia, unconditionally secure quantum protocols for oblivious transfer or general secure two-party computations. These theorems apply even to protocols which take relativistic signalling constraints into account. The best that can be hoped for, in general, are quantum protocols computationally secure against quantum attack. I describe here a method for building a classically certified bit commitment, and hence every other mistrustful cryptographic task, from a secure coin tossing protocol. No security proof is attempted, but I sketch reasons why these protocols might resist quantum computational attack.

id: quant-ph/0111098
title: Approximate Quantum Cloning with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: H. K. Cummins, C. Jones, A. Furze, N. F. Soffe, M. Mosca, J. M. Peach, J. A. Jones
comments: 4 pages RevTeX4 including 5 postscript figures. Submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 187901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111098
abstract: Here we describe a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) experiment that uses a three qubit NMR device to implement the one to two approximate quantum cloning network of Buzek et al.

id: quant-ph/0111099
title: Quantum Bit String Commitment
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Published version. (Refs updated.)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 237901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111099
abstract: A bit string commitment protocol securely commits $N$ classical bits in such a way that the recipient can extract only $M<N$ bits of information about the string. Classical reasoning might suggest that bit string commitment implies bit commitment and hence, given the Mayers-Lo-Chau theorem, that non-relativistic quantum bit string commitment is impossible. Not so: there exist non-relativistic quantum bit string commitment protocols, with security parameters $\epsilon$ and $M$, that allow $A$ to commit $N = N(M, \epsilon)$ bits to $B$ so that $A$'s probability of successfully cheating when revealing any bit and $B$'s probability of extracting more than $N'=N-M$ bits of information about the $N$ bit string before revelation are both less than $\epsilon$. With a slightly weakened but still restrictive definition of security against $A$, $N$ can be taken to be $O(\exp (C N'))$ for a positive constant $C$. I briefly discuss possible applications.

id: quant-ph/0111100
title: From Quantum Cheating to Quantum Security
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Originally appeared in Physics Today: <this http URL>. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of both the author and the American Institute of Physics
journal: Physics Today, vol. 53, No. 11, p. 22, Nov. 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111100
abstract: For thousands of years, code-makers and code-breakers have been competing for supremacy. Their arsenals may soon include a powerful new weapon: quantum mechanics. We give an overview of quantum cryptology as of November 2000.

id: quant-ph/0111101
title: Dynamic and Geometric Phase Formulasin the Hestenes-Dirac Theory
authors: David W. Dreisigmeyer, Richard Clawson, R. Eykholt, Peter M. Young
comments: Final version to be published in Foundations of Physics Letters, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111101
abstract: We examine the dynamic and geometric phases of the electron in quantum mechanics using Hestenes' spacetime algebra formalism. First the standard dynamic phase formula is translated into the spacetime algebra. We then define new formulas for the dynamic and geometric phases that can be used in Hestenes' formalism.

id: quant-ph/0111102
title: Quantum Lower Bound for the Collision Problem
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 10 pages plus 4 page appendix, no figures. Submitted to STOC'2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111102
abstract: The collision problem is to decide whether a function X:{1,..,n}->{1,..,n} is one-to-one or two-to-one, given that one of these is the case. We show a lower bound of Theta(n^{1/5}) on the number of queries needed by a quantum computer to solve this problem with bounded error probability. The best known upper bound is O(n^{1/3}), but obtaining any lower bound better than Theta(1) was an open problem since 1997. Our proof uses the polynomial method augmented by some new ideas. We also give a lower bound of Theta(n^{1/7}) for the problem of deciding whether two sets are equal or disjoint on a constant fraction of elements. Finally we give implications of these results for quantum complexity theory.

id: quant-ph/0111103
title: Semiclassical approach to tunneling through a double barrier structure
authors: J. C. Martinez, E. Polatdemir
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111103
abstract: We consider a symmetric double barrier heterostructure enclosing a well and propose a solution for the transmission problem using a generalized WKB approach which accounts for the amplitude suppression and phase shift due to the barriers. This approach allows us to address both off-resonance and resonance cases and, in the latter case, verify the coherent destruction of tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0111104
title: Two-component Fermi gas in a one-dimensional harmonic trap
authors: Gao Xianlong, W. Wonneberger
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111104
abstract: A many body theory for a two-component system of spin polarized interacting fermions in a one-dimensional harmonic trap is developed. The model considers two different states of the same fermionic species and treats the dominant interactions between the two using the bosonization method for forward scattering. Asymptotically exact results for the one-particle matrix elements at zero temperature are given. Using them, occupation probabilities of oscillator states are discussed. Particle and momentum densities are calculated and displayed. It is demonstrated how interactions modify all these quantities. An asymptotic connection with Luttinger liquids is suggested. The relation of the coupling constant of the theory to the dipole-dipole interaction is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111105
title: To the nonlinear quantum mechanics
authors: Miroslav Pardy
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111105
abstract: The Schroedinger equation with the nonlinear term is derived by the natural generalization of the hydrodynamical model of quantum mechanics. The nonlinear term appears to be logically necessary because it enables explanation of the classical limit of the wave function, the collaps of the wave function and solves the Schroedinger cat paradox.

id: quant-ph/0111106
title: Secure communication with a publicly known key
authors: Almut Beige, Berthold-Georg Englert, Christian Kurtsiefer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 14 pages including 2 figures, erratum added
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 101, 357 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111106
abstract: We present a scheme for direct and confidential communication between Alice and Bob, where there is no need for establishing a shared secret key first, and where the key used by Alice even will become known publicly. The communication is based on the exchange of single photons and each and every photon transmits one bit of Alice's message without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper.

id: quant-ph/0111107
title: Structural physical approximations of unphysical maps and generalized quantum measurements
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052315 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111107
abstract: We investigate properties of the structural physical approximation (SPA) of the partial transposition map recently introduced by Horodecki and Ekert [quant-ph/0111064]. We focus on the case of two-qubit states and show that in this case the map has the structure of a generalized quantum measurement followed by preparation of a suitable output state. We also introduce SPA for map that transforms two copies of density matrix of a single qubit onto a square of that matrix. We prove that also this map is essentially a generalized quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0111108
title: Modified Grover's algorithm for an expectation value quantum computer
authors: David Collins
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111108
abstract: The translation of Grover's search algorithm from its standard version, designed for implementation on a single quantum system amenable to projective measurements, into one suitable for an ensemble of quantum computers, whose outputs are expectation values of observables, is described in detail. A filtering scheme, which effectively determines expectation values on a limited portion of the quantum state, is presented and used to locate a single item for searches involving more than one marked item. A truncated version of Grover's algorithm, requiring fewer steps than the translated standard version but locating marked items just as successfully, is proposed. For quantum computational devices which only return expectation values, the truncated version is superior to its standard counterpart. This indicates that it is possible to modify quantum algorithms so as to reduce the required temporal resources by using the ensemble's spatial resources.

id: quant-ph/0111109
title: Effects of noisy entangled state transmission on quantum teleportation
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Kenji Tsujino, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 3 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the Quantum Information Technology conference QIT5 held November 12th to 13th 2000 near Tokyo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111109
abstract: Quantum teleportation requires the transmission of entangled pairs to Alice and Bob. Transmission errors modify the entangled state before the teleportation can be performed. We determine the changes in the output state caused by such transmission errors. It is shown that the errors caused by entanglement transmission are equivalent to the errors caused in a direct transmission of a quantum state from Alice to Bob.

id: quant-ph/0111110
title: Generating and probing a two-photon Fock state with a single atom in a cavity
authors: P. Bertet, S. Osnaghi, P. Milman, A. Auffeves, P. Maioli, M. Brune, J.M. Raimond, S. Haroche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111110
abstract: A two-photon Fock state is prepared in a cavity sustaining a "source mode " and a "target mode", with a single circular Rydberg atom. In a third-order Raman process, the atom emits a photon in the target while scattering one photon from the source into the target. The final two-photon state is probed by measuring by Ramsey interferometry the cavity light shifts induced by the target field on the same atom. Extensions to other multi-photon processes and to a new type of micromaser are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111111
title: Interpolating Coherent States for Heisenberg-Weyl and Single-Photon SU(1,1) Algebras
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 13 pages nd 5 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111111
abstract: New quantal states which interpolate between the coherent states of the Heisenberg_Weyl and SU(1,1) algebras are introduced. The interpolating states are obtained as the coherent states of a closed and symmetric algebra which interpolates between the two algebras. The overcompleteness of the interpolating coherent states is established. Differential operator representations in suitable spaces of entire functions are given for the generators of the algebra. A nonsymmetric set of operators to realize the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra is provided and the relevant coherent states are studied.

id: quant-ph/0111112
title: Management of the Angular Momentum of Light: Preparation of Photons in Multidimensional Vector States of Angular
authors: Gabriel Molina-Terriza, Juan P. Torres, Lluis Torner
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111112
abstract: We put forward schemes to prepare photons in multi-dimensional vector states of orbital angular momentum. We show realizable light distributions that yield prescribed states with finite or infinite normal modes. In particular, we show that suitable light vortex-pancakes allow the add-drop of specific vector projections. We suggest that such photons might allow the generation of it engineered quNits in multi-dimensional quantum information systems.

id: quant-ph/0111113
title: Irreducibility of n-ary quantum information
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111113
abstract: Quantum information is radically different from classical information in that the quantum formalism (Hilbert space) makes necessary the introduction of irreducible ``nits,'' n being an arbitrary natural number (bigger than one), not just bits.

id: quant-ph/0111114
title: Relativistic Quantum Newton's Law For A Spinless Particle
authors: A. Bouda, F. Hammad
comments: 10 pages, LateX, no figures, minor changes
journal: Acta Phys.Slov. 52 (2002) 101-110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111114
abstract: For a one-dimensional stationary system, we derive a third order equation of motion representing a first integral of the relativistic quantum Newton's law. We then integrate this equation in the constant potential case and calculate the time spent by a particle tunneling through a potential barrier.

id: quant-ph/0111115
title: Invariant information and quantum state estimation
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: PRL (88) 130401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111115
abstract: The invariant information introduced by Brukner and Zeilinger, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 3354 (1999), is reconsidered from the point of view of quantum state estimation. We show that it is directly related to the mean error of the standard reconstruction from the measurement of a complete set of mutually complementary observables. We give its generalization in terms of the Fisher information. Provided that the optimum reconstruction is adopted, the corresponding quantity loses its invariant character.

id: quant-ph/0111116
title: A Geometric Picture of Entanglement and Bell Inequalities
authors: R.A. Bertlmann, H. Narnhofer, W. Thirring
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, 4 references added
journal: Phys.Rev. A66 (2002) 032319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111116
abstract: We work in the real Hilbert space H_s of hermitian Hilbert-Schmid operators and show that the entanglement witness which shows the maximal violation of a generalized Bell inequality (GBI) is a tangent functional to the convex set S subset H_s of separable states. This violation equals the euclidean distance in H_s of the entangled state to S and thus entanglement, GBI and tangent functional are only different aspects of the same geometric picture. This is explicitly illustrated in the example of two spins, where also a comparison with familiar Bell inequalities is presented.

id: quant-ph/0111117
title: Larmor precession and tunneling time of a relativistic neutral spinning particle through an arbitrary potential barrier
authors: Zhi-Jian Li, Jiu-Qing. Liang, D. H. Kobe
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. To be published in Phys. Rev. A (01 February 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111117
abstract: The Larmor precession of a relativistic neutral spin-1/2 particle in a uniform constant magnetic field confined to the region of a one-dimensional arbitrary potential barrier is investigated. The spin precession serves as a clock to measure the time spent by a quantum particle traversing a potential barrier. With the help of general spin coherent state it is explicitly shown that the precession time is equal to the dwell time.

id: quant-ph/0111118
title: Incompleteness, Complexity, Randomness and Beyond
authors: Cristian S. Calude
comments: 16 pages
journal: Minds and Machines: Journal for Artificial Intelligence, Philosophy and Cognitive Science, 12, 4 (2002), 503--517
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111118
abstract: Goedel's Incompleteness Theorems have the same scientific status as Einstein's principle of relativity, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, and Watson and Crick's double helix model of DNA. Our aim is to discuss some new faces of the incompleteness phenomenon unveiled by an information-theoretic approach to randomness and recent developments in quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0111119
title: EPR Type Nonlocality in Classical Electrodynamics!
authors: Partha Ghose, M. K. Samal
comments: 4 pages revtex format, no figure, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111119
abstract: It is shown that classical electrodynamics in its alternative Kemmer-Duffin-Petiau-Harish-Chandra formulation surprisingly reveals a Hilbert space structure leading to the possibility of entangled states of classical radiation, and this in turn implies the violation of Einstein-Bell locality in spite of Lorentz invariance.

id: quant-ph/0111120
title: Quantum-Statistical Computation
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli, David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX Minor changes for journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111120
abstract: Systems of spin 1, such as triplet pairs of spin-1/2 fermions (like orthohydrogen nuclei) make useful three-terminal elements for quantum computation, and when interconnected by qubit equality relations are universal for quantum computation. This is an instance of quantum-statistical computation: some of the logical relations of the problem are satisfied identically in virtue of quantum statistics, which takes no time. We show heuristically that quantum-statistical ground-mode computation is substantially faster than pure ground-mode computation when the ground mode is reached by annealing.

id: quant-ph/0111121
title: Relativistic Quantum Newton's Law and photon trajectories
authors: T. Djama
comments: LaTex, 13 pages, no figures, title changed, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111121
abstract: Using the relativistic quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation within the framework of the equivalence postulate, and grounding one self on both relativistic and quantum Lagrangians, we construct a Lagrangian of relativistic quantum system in one dimension and derive a third order equation of motion representing a first integral of the relativistic quantum Newton's law. Then, we investigate the free particle case and establish the photon's trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0111122
title: Two-qubit Projective Measurements are Universal for Quantum Computation
authors: D. W. Leung
comments: Results and discussed expanded, simple discrete universal sets of measurements presented
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111122
abstract: Nielsen [quant-ph/0108020] showed that universal quantum computation is possible given quantum memory and the ability to perform projective measurements on up to 4-qubits. We describe an improved method that requires only 2-qubit measurements, which are both sufficient and necessary. We present a method to partially collapse the $C_k$-hierarchy in the indirect construction of unitary gates [Gottesman and Chuang, Nature, {\bf 402} 309 (1999)], and apply the method to find discrete universal sets of 2-qubit measurements.

id: quant-ph/0111123
title: Observable Dirac-type singularities in Berry's phase and the monopole
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: 12 pages Latex, 3 postscript figures; submitted to Physical Review Letters 15 September 2000; revised 19 November 2001
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 100403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111123
abstract: The physical reality and observability of 2n\pi Berry phases, as opposed to the usually considered modulo 2\pi topological phases is demonstrated with the help of computer simulation of a model adiabatic evolution whose parameters are varied along a closed loop in the parameter space. Using the analogy of Berry's phase with the Dirac monopole, it is concluded that an interferometer loop taken around a magnetic monopole of strength n/2 yields an observable 2n\pi phase shift, where n is an integer. An experiment to observe the effect is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0111124
title: Instantaneous measurement of non-local variables
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 4 pages, revised version, to be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111124
abstract: It is shown, under the assumption of possibility to perform an arbitrary local operation, that all nonlocal variables related to two or more separate sites can be measured instantaneously, except for a finite time required for bringing to one location the classical records from these sites which yield the result of the measurement. It is a verification measurement: it yields reliably the eigenvalues of the nonlocal variables, but it does not prepare the eigenstates of the system.

id: quant-ph/0111125
title: Quantum irreversibility, perturbation independent decay, and the parametric theory of the local density of states
authors: Diego A. Wisniacki, Doron Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 66, 046209 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111125
abstract: The idea of perturbation independent decay (PID) has appeared in the context of survival-probability studies, and lately has emerged in the context of quantum irreversibility studies. In both cases the PID reflects the Lyapunov instability of the underlying semiclassical dynamics, and it can be distinguished from the Wigner-type decay that holds in the perturbative regime. The theory of the survival probability is manifestly related to the parametric theory of the local density of states (LDOS). In this Paper we demonstrate that in spite of the common "ideology", the physics of quantum irreversibility is {\em not} trivially related to the parametric theory of the LDOS. Rather, it is essential to take into account subtle cross correlations which are not captured by the LDOS alone.

id: quant-ph/0111126
title: Intensity-intensity correlations as a probe of interferences - under conditions of none in the intensity
authors: G. S. Agarwal, J. von Zanthier, C. Skornia, H. Walther
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053826 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111126
abstract: The different behaviour of first order interferences and second order correlations are investigated for the case of two coherently excited atoms. For intensity measurements this problem is equivalent to Young's double slit experiment and was investigated in an experiment by Eichmann et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 2359 (1993)] and later analyzed in detail by Itano et al. [Phys. Rev. A 57, 4176 (1998)]. Our results show that in cases where the intensity interferences disappear the intensity-intensity correlations can display an interference pattern with a visibility of up to 100%. The contrast depends on the polarization selected for the detection and is independent of the strength of the driving field. The nonclassical nature of the calculated intensity-intensity correlations is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111127
title: Gain tuning and fidelity in continuous variable quantum teleportation
authors: Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann, Akira Furusawa, Takayoshi Kobayashi
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111127
abstract: The fidelity of continuous variable teleportation can be optimized by changing the gain in the modulation of the output field. We discuss the gain dependence of fidelity for coherent, vacuum and one photon inputs and propose optimal gain tuning strategies for corresponding input selections.

id: quant-ph/0111128
title: Deformed versus undeformed cat states encoding qubit
authors: Stefano Mancini, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 6 pages, 2 eps figures, to appear in J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B 4, S117 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111128
abstract: We study the possibility of exploiting superpositions of coherent states to encode qubit. A comparison between the use of deformed and undeformed bosonic algebra is made in connection with the amplitude damping errors.

id: quant-ph/0111129
title: Temporal imperfections building up correcting codes
authors: Stefano Mancini, Rodolfo Bonifacio
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures, to appear in J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 49, 1587 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111129
abstract: We address the timing problem in realizing correcting codes for quantum information processing. To deal with temporal uncertainties we employ a consistent quantum mechanical approach. The conditions for optimizing the effect of error correction in such a case are determined.

id: quant-ph/0111130
title: Dialogue on Classical and Quantum between mathematician and experimenter
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Johann Summhammer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111130
abstract: This dialogue took place at V\"axj\"o, 19 November 2001. The main aim of our meeting in V\"axj\"o was to clarify our viewpoints on foundations of quantum mechanics. The most attractive in our discussion was the extreme difference in our quantum experiences. On one side, pure mathematician (specializing in foundations of probability theory), Andrei Khrennikov; on the other side, pure experimenter (specializing in neutron and electron interferometry), Johann Summhammer. On one hand, an attempt to test mathematical models for larger and larger domains of physical reality. On the other hand, an attempt to create this reality from experimental information - roughly speaking from clicks of detectors.

id: quant-ph/0111131
title: Numerical simulation of interference experiments in a local hidden variables model
authors: W. A. Hofer
comments: Eight pages (LaTeX) and nine figures (EPS). For related papers see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111131
abstract: We present a theoretical model which allows to keep track of all photons in an interferometer. The model is implemented in a numerical scheme, and we simulate photon interference measurements on one, two, four, and eight slits. Measurements are simulated for the high intensity regime, where we show that our simulations describe all experimental results so far. With a slightly modified concept we can also model interference experiments in the low intensity regime, these experiments have recently been performed with single molecules. Finally, we predict the result of polarization measurements, which allow to check the model experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0111132
title: Wannier-Stark resonances in optical and semiconductor superlattices
authors: M. Glueck, A. R. Kolovsky, H. J. Korsch
comments: 94 pages, 41 figures, typos corrected, references added
journal: Phys. Rep. 366 (2002) 103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111132
abstract: In this work, we discuss the resonance states of a quantum particle in a periodic potential plus a static force. Originally this problem was formulated for a crystal electron subject to a static electric field and it is nowadays known as the Wannier-Stark problem. We describe a novel approach to the Wannier-Stark problem developed in recent years. This approach allows to compute the complex energy spectrum of a Wannier-Stark system as the poles of a rigorously constructed scattering matrix and solves the Wannier-Stark problem without any approximation. The suggested method is very efficient from the numerical point of view and has proven to be a powerful analytic tool for Wannier-Stark resonances appearing in different physical systems such as optical lattices or semiconductor superlattices.

id: quant-ph/0111133
title: Uniform Finite Generation of Compact Lie Groups and universal quantum gates
authors: D. D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111133
abstract: Consider a compact connected Lie group $G$ and the corresponding Lie algebra $\cal L$. Let $\{X_1,...,X_m\}$ be a set of generators for the Lie algebra $\cal L$. We prove that $G$ is uniformly finitely generated by $\{X_1,...,X_m\}$. This means that every element $K \in G$ can be expressed as $K=e^{Xt_1}e^{Xt_2} \cdot \cdot \cdot e^{Xt_l}$, where the indeterminates $X$ are in the set $\{X_1,...,X_m \}$, $t_i \in \RR$, $i=1,...,l$, and the number $l$ is uniformly bounded. This extends a previous result by F. Lowenthal in that we do not require the connected one dimensional Lie subgroups corresponding to the $X_i$, $i=1,...,m$, to be compact. We discuss the consequence of this result to the question of universality of quantum gates in quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0111134
title: Rabi oscillations and macroscopic quantum superposition states
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 7 pages, revtex, no figures. I have to thank Kazuyuki Fujii for pointing me out some corrections to introduce into the paper. Besides, the title and the nomenclature has been changed in agreement to editorial requirements. Finally, the correct citation for the paper by Nakamura et al. has been introduced
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 023810 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111134
abstract: A two-level atom interacting with a single radiation mode is considered, without the rotating-wave approximation, in the strong coupling regime. It is shown that, in agreement with the recent results on Rabi oscillations in a Josephson junction (Y. Nakamura, Yu. A. Pashkin and J. S. Tsai, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 246601 (2001)), the Rabi frequency is indeed proportional to first kind integer order Bessel functions in the limit of a large number of photons and the dressed states are macroscopic quantum superposition states. To approach this problem analytically use is made of the dual Dyson series and the rotating-wave approximation.

id: quant-ph/0111135
title: Different versions of perturbation expansion based on the single-trajectory quadrature method
authors: W. Q. Chao, C. S. Ju
comments: 18 pages, LaTex, no table, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111135
abstract: The newly developed single trajectory quadrature method is applied to a two-dimensional example. The results based on different versions of new perturbation expansion and the new Green's function deduced from this method are compared to each other, also compared to the result from the traditional perturbation theory. As the first application to higher-dimensional non-separable potential the obtained result further confirms the applicability and potential of this new method.

id: quant-ph/0111136
title: On local indistinguishability of orthogonal pure states by using a bound on distillable entanglement
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Anirban Roy, Debasis Sarkar, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111136
abstract: We show that the four states a|00>+b|11>, b^*|00>-a^*|11>, c|01>+d|10> and d^*|01>-c^*|10> cannot be discriminated with certainty if only local operations and classical communication (LOCC) are allowed and if only a single copy is provided, except in the case when they are simply |00>, |11>, |01> and |10> (in which case they are trivially distinguishable with LOCC). We go on to show that there exists a continuous range of values of a, b, c and d such that even three states among the above four are not locally distinguishable, if only a single copy is provided. The proof follows from the fact that logarithmic negativity is an upper bound of distillable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0111137
title: Information transfer in quantum measurements: irreversibility and amplification
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 35 pages, lecture at NATO ASI in Bad Windsheim, 1981
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111137
abstract: The aim of these lectures is to investigate the transfer of information occurring in course of quantum interactions. In particular, I shall explore circumstances in which such an information transfer with the quantum environment of the considered quantum system leads to the destruction of the phase coherence between the states of the privileged basis in the system Hilbert space. This basis shall be called the pointer basis. I shall argue that states of this pointer basis correspond to the ``classical'' states of the observables of the quantum system in question.

id: quant-ph/0111138
title: Phase-transition-like Behavior of Quantum Games
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Xiaodong Xu, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: revised version; to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 6551 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111138
abstract: The discontinuous dependence of the properties of a quantum game on its entanglement has been shown up to be very much like phase transitions viewed in the entanglement-payoff diagram [J. Du et al., Phys. Rev. Lett, 88, 137902 (2002)]. In this paper we investigate such phase-transition-like behavior of quantum games, by suggesting a method which would help to illuminate the origin of such kind of behavior. For the particular case of the generalized Prisoners' Dilemma, we find that, for different settings of the numerical values in the payoff table, even though the classical game behaves the same, the quantum game exhibits different and interesting phase-transition-like behavior.

id: quant-ph/0111139
title: Exact positivity of the Wigner and P-functions of a Markovian open system
authors: Lajos Diosi, Claus Kiefer
comments: 11 pages, references added, typo corrected, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A35:2675-2684,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111139
abstract: We discuss the case of a Markovian master equation for an open system, as it is frequently found from environmental decoherence. We prove two theorems for the evolution of the quantum state. The first one states that for a generic initial state the corresponding Wigner function becomes strictly positive after a finite time has elapsed. The second one states that also the P-function becomes exactly positive after a decoherence time of the same order. Therefore the density matrix becomes exactly decomposable into a mixture of Gaussian pointer states.

id: quant-ph/0111140
title: Quantum optical coherence tomography with dispersion cancellation
authors: Ayman F. Abouraddy, Magued B. Nasr, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053817 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111140
abstract: We propose a new technique, called quantum optical coherence tomography (QOCT), for carrying out tomographic measurements with dispersion-cancelled resolution. The technique can also be used to extract the frequency-dependent refractive index of the medium. QOCT makes use of a two-photon interferometer in which a swept delay permits a coincidence interferogram to be traced. The technique bears a resemblance to classical optical coherence tomography (OCT). However, it makes use of a nonclassical entangled twin-photon light source that permits measurements to be made at depths greater than those accessible via OCT, which suffers from the deleterious effects of sample dispersion. Aside from the dispersion cancellation, QOCT offers higher sensitivity than OCT as well as an enhancement of resolution by a factor of 2 for the same source bandwidth. QOCT and OCT are compared using an idealized sample.

id: quant-ph/0111141
title: Reconsideration of quantum measurements
authors: Spiridon Dumitru
comments: 19 pages, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111141
abstract: The usual conjectures of quantum measurements approaches, inspired from the traditional interpretation of Heisenberg's ("uncertainty") relations, are proved as being incorrect. A group of reconsidered conjectures and a corresponding new approach are set forth. The quantum measurements, regarded experimentally as statistical samplings, are described theoretically by means of linear integral transforms of quantum probability density and current, from intrinsic into recorded readings. Accordingly, the quantum observables appear as random variables, valuable, in both readings, through probabilistic numerical parameters (characteristics). The measurements uncertainties (errors) are described by means of the intrinsic-recorded changes for the alluded parameters or for the informational entropies. The present approach, together with other author's investigations, give a natural and unified reconsideration of primary problems of Heisenberg's relations and quantum measurements. The respective reconsideration can offer some nontrivial elements for an expected re-examination of some disputed subsequent questions regarding the foundations and interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0111142
title: Quantum Stationary Hamilton Jacobi Equation in 3-D for symmetrical potentials. Introduction of the Spin
authors: T. Djama
comments: 12 pages, LaTex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111142
abstract: We establish the quantum stationary Hamilton-Jacobi equation in 3-D and its solutions for three symmetrical potentials, Cartesian symmetry potential, spherical symmetry potential and cylindrical symmetry potential. For the two last potentials, a new interpretation of the Spin is proposed within the framework of trajectory representation.

id: quant-ph/0111143
title: Quantum non-locality in two three-level systems
authors: A. Acin, T. Durt, N. Gisin, J. I. Latorre
comments: 9 pages, 1 table, 1 figure. An example is included showing that the resistance to noise is not a good measure of non-locality
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 052325 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111143
abstract: Recently a new Bell inequality has been introduced (CGLMP,KKCZO) that is strongly resistant to noise for maximally entangled states of two $d$-dimensional quantum systems. We prove that a larger violation, or equivalently a stronger resistance to noise, is found for a non-maximally entangled state. It is shown that the resistance to noise is not a good measure of non-locality and we introduce some other possible measures. The non-maximally entangled state turns out to be more robust also for these alternative measures. From these results it follows that two Von Neumann measurements per party may be not optimal for detecting non-locality. For $d=3,4$, we point out some connections between this inequality and distillability. Indeed, we demonstrate that any state violating it, with the optimal Von Neumann settings, is distillable.

id: quant-ph/0111144
title: Extension of quantum information theory to curved spacetimes
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, contribution to Proceedings of the conference "Quantum Theory: reconsideration of foundations", Vaxjo, July 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111144
abstract: The representation of measurements by positive operator valued measures and the description of the most general state transformations by means of completely positive maps are two basic concepts of quantum information theory. These concepts can be trivially extended to field theories in curved spacetime if all the representations of canonical commutation or anticommutation relations are unitarily equivalent. We show that both concepts can be applied even when there is no such unitary equivalence.

id: quant-ph/0111145
title: Anisotropy of Electrons Accelerated by a High-Intensity Laser Pulse
authors: N.B. Narozhny, M.S. Fofanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111145
abstract: We describe a realistic model for a focused high-intensity laser pulse in three dimensions. Relativistic dynamics of an electron submitted to such pulse is described by equations of motion with ponderomotive potential depending on a single free parameter in the problem, which we refer to as the "asymmetry parameter". It is shown that the asymmetry parameter can be chosen to provide quantitative agreement of the developed theory with experimental results of Malka et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 3314 (1997)] who detected angular asymmetry in the spatial pattern of electrons accelerated in vacuum by a high-intensity laser pulse.

id: quant-ph/0111146
title: The Majorization Arrow in Quantum Algorithm Design
authors: J.I. Latorre, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: REVTEX4.b4 file, 4 color figures (typos corrected.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111146
abstract: We apply majorization theory to study the quantum algorithms known so far and find that there is a majorization principle underlying the way they operate. Grover's algorithm is a neat instance of this principle where majorization works step by step until the optimal target state is found. Extensions of this situation are also found in algorithms based in quantum adiabatic evolution and the family of quantum phase-estimation algorithms, including Shor's algorithm. We state that in quantum algorithms the time arrow is a majorization arrow.

id: quant-ph/0111147
title: Quantum Information Processing in Strongly Detuned Optical Cavities
authors: E. Jane, M.B. Plenio, D. Jonathan
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 050302(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111147
abstract: We demonstrate that quantum information processing can be implemented with ions trapped in a far detuned optical cavity. For sufficiently large detuning the system becomes insensitive to cavity decay. Following recent experimental progress, this scheme can be implemented with currently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0111148
title: Stabilization of impurity states in crossed magnetic and electric fields
authors: Katarzyna Krajewska, Jerzy Z. Kaminski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111148
abstract: It is shown that the renormalizability of the zero-range interaction in the two-dimensional space is always followed by the existence of a bound state, which is not true for odd-dimensional spaces. A renormalization procedure is defined and the exact retarded Green's function for electrons moving in two dimensions and interacting with both crossed magnetic and electric fields and an attractive zero-range interaction is constructed. Imaginary parts of poles of this Green's function determine lifetimes of quasi-bound (resonance) states. It is shown that for some particular parameters the stabilization against decay occurs even for strong electric fields.

id: quant-ph/0111149
title: Quantum state conversion by cross-Kerr interaction
authors: J. Clausen, L. Knoell, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, using a4.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111149
abstract: A generalized Mach-Zehnder-type interferometer equipped with cross-Kerr elements is proposed to convert N-photon truncated single-mode quantum states into (N+1)-mode single-photon states, which are suitable for further state manipulation by means of beam splitter arrays and ON/OFF-detections, and vice versa. Applications to the realization of unitary and non-unitary transformations, quantum state reconstruction, and quantum telemanipulation are studied.

id: quant-ph/0111150
title: Flower-like squeezing in the motion of a laser-driven trapped ion
authors: Nguyen Ba An, Truong Minh Duc
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111150
abstract: We investigate the Nth order amplitude squeezing in the fan-state |\xi ;2k,f>_F which is a linear superposition of the 2k-quantum nonlinear coherent states. Unlike in usual states where an ellipse is the symbol of squeezing, a 4k-winged flower results in the fan state. We first derive the analytical expression of squeezing for arbitrary k, N, f and then study in detail the case of a laser-driven trapped ion characterized by a specific form of the nonlinear function f. We show that the lowest order in which squeezing may appear and the number of directions along which the amplitude may be squeezed depend only on k whereas the precise directions of squeezing are determined also by the other physical parameters involved. Finally, we present a scheme to produce such fan-states.

id: quant-ph/0111151
title: Coherent States from Combinatorial Sequences
authors: Karol A. Penson, Allan I Solomon
comments: 4 pages, Latex; Conference 'Quantum Theory and Symmetries 2', Krakow, Poland, July 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111151
abstract: We construct coherent states using sequences of combinatorial numbers such as various binomial and trinomial numbers, and Bell and Catalan numbers. We show that these states satisfy the condition of the resolution of unity in a natural way. In each case the positive weight functions are given as solutions of associated Stieltjes or Hausdorff moment problems, where the moments are the combinatorial numbers.

id: quant-ph/0111152
title: Local Realistic Model for the Dynamics of Bulk-Ensemble NMR Information Processing
authors: N. C. Menicucci, Carlton M. Caves
comments: REVTEX, 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 167901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111152
abstract: We construct a local realistic hidden-variable model that describes the states and dynamics of bulk-ensemble NMR information processing up to about 12 nuclear spins. The existence of such a model rules out violation of any Bell inequality, temporal or otherwise, in present high-temperature, liquid-state NMR experiments. The model does not provide an efficient description in that the number of hidden variables grows exponentially with the number of nuclear spins.

id: quant-ph/0111153
title: General impossible operations in quantum information
authors: Arun K. Pati
comments: 15 pages, no figures, Discussion about personal quantum computer removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol 66, 062319 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111153
abstract: We prove a general limitation in quantum information that unifies the impossibility principles such as no-cloning and no-anticloning. Further, we show that for an unknown qubit one cannot design a universal Hadamard gate for creating equal superposition of the original and its complement state. Surprisingly, we find that Hadamard transformations exist for an unknown qubit chosen either from the polar or equatorial great circles. Also, we show that for an unknown qubit one cannot design a universal unitary gate for creating unequal superpositions of the original and its complement state. We discuss why it is impossible to design a controlled-NOT gate for two unknown qubits and discuss the implications of these limitations.

id: quant-ph/0111154
title: Reconstructing the formalism of quantum mechanics in the ``contextual objectivity" point of view
authors: Philippe Grangier
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111154
abstract: In a previous preprint (quant-ph/0012122) we introduced a ``contextual objectivity" formulation of quantum mechanics (QM). A central feature of this approach is to define the quantum state in physical rather than in mathematical terms, in such a way that it may be given an "objective reality". Here we use some ideas about the system dimensionality, taken from quant-ph/0101012, to propose a possible axiomatic approach to QM. In this approach the structure of QM appears as a direct consequence of the non-commutative character of the (classical geometrical) group of "knobs transformations", that relate between themselves the different positions of the measurement apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0111155
title: The simplest non-trivial model of chaotic causal dynamics
authors: Adam J. Makowski, Michal Frackowiak
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, uses revtex4
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B32, 2831 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111155
abstract: The simplest non-trivial model of chaotic Bohmian dynamics is identified. We argue that its most important features can be observed in more complex models, above all, the presumable mechanism of the appearance of chaos in the Bohmian-type dynamical systems.

id: quant-ph/0111156
title: Field quantization for chaotic resonators with overlapping modes
authors: G. Hackenbroich, C. Viviescas, F. Haake
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 083902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111156
abstract: Feshbach's projector technique is employed to quantize the electromagnetic field in optical resonators with an arbitray number of escape channels. We find spectrally overlapping resonator modes coupled due to the damping and noise inflicted by the external radiation field. For wave chaotic resonators the mode dynamics is determined by a non--Hermitean random matrix. Upon including an amplifying medium, our dynamics of open-resonator modes may serve as a starting point for a quantum theory of random lasing.

id: quant-ph/0111157
title: The Quantum State of a Propagating Laser Field
authors: S.J. van Enk, Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: This is a greatly expanded version of quant-ph/0104036, submitted to QIC
journal: QIC 2, 151 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111157
abstract: Optical implementations of quantum communication protocols typically involve laser fields. However, the standard description of the quantum state of a laser field is surprisingly insufficient to understand the quantum nature of such implementations. In this paper, we give a quantum information-theoretic description of a propagating continuous-wave laser field and reinterpret various quantum-optical experiments in light of this. A timely example is found in a recent controversy about the quantum teleportation of continuous variables. We show that contrary to the claims of T. Rudolph and B. C. Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 077903 (2001)], a conventional laser can be used for quantum teleportation with continuous variables and for generating continuous-variable quantum entanglement. Furthermore, we show that optical coherent states do play a privileged role in the description of propagating laser fields even though they cannot be ascribed such a role for the intracavity field.

id: quant-ph/0111158
title: Conditional Spin Resonance with Trapped Ions
authors: Christof Wunderlich
comments: Slightly modified version of the published paper
journal: In: "Laser Physics at the Limit", Springer Verlag Heidelberg, Berlin, New York, 2001, p. 261
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111158
abstract: Internal states of different ions in an electrodynamic trap are coupled when a static magnetic field is applied -- analogous to spin-spin coupling in molecules used for NMR. This spin-spin interaction can be used, for example, to implement quantum logic operations in ion traps using NMR methods. The collection of trapped ions can be viewed as a $N$-qubit molecule with adjustable coupling constants.

id: quant-ph/0111159
title: Numerical Experiment on Interference for Macroscopic Particles
authors: A.Yu. Khrennikov, Ya.I. Volovich
comments: 9 pages with *.eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111159
abstract: We consider a classical analogue of the well known quantum two-slit experiment. Charged particles are scattered on flat screen with two slits and hit the second screen. We show that the probability distribution on the second screen when both slits are open is not given by the sum of distributions for each slit separately, but has an extra interference term that is given with the quantum rule of the addition of probabilistic alternatives. We show that the proposed classical model has a context dependence and could be adequately described with contextual formalism.

id: quant-ph/0111160
title: Generation of fan-states of radiation field in a cavity
authors: Nguyen Ba An, Truong Minh Duc
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111160
abstract: A scheme of generating recently introduced fan-states | \alpha, 2k>_F (\alpha is complex, k=1,2,3,...) is proposed basing on a \Lambda-type atom-cavity field interaction. We show that with suitable atomic preparations and measurements a passage of a sequence of N atoms through a cavity may transform an initial field coherent state | \alpha> to a fan-state | \alpha, 2k>_F with k=2^{N-2}.

id: quant-ph/0111161
title: Polariton Analysis of a Four-Level Atom Strongly Coupled to a Cavity Mode
authors: S. Rebi?, A. S. Parkins, S. M. Tan
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111161
abstract: We present a complete analytical solution for a single four-level atom strongly coupled to a cavity field mode and driven by external coherent laser fields. The four-level atomic system consists of a three-level subsystem in an EIT configuration, plus an additional atomic level; this system has been predicted to exhibit a photon blockade effect. The solution is presented in terms of polaritons. An effective Hamiltonian obtained by this procedure is analyzed from the viewpoint of an effective two-level system, and the dynamic Stark splitting of dressed states is discussed. The fluorescence spectrum of light exiting the cavity mode is analyzed and relevant transitions identified.

id: quant-ph/0111162
title: Correlation between plasma and temperature corrections to the Casimir force
authors: Cyriaque Genet, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Modern Physics A17 (2002) 761-766
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111162
abstract: When comparing experimental results with theoretical predictions of the Casimir force, the accuracy of the theory is as important as the precision of experiments. Here we evaluate the Casimir force when finite conductivity of the reflectors and finite temperature are simultaneously taken into account. We show that these two corrections are correlated, i.e. that they can not, in principle, be evaluated separately and simply multiplied. We estimate the correlation factor which measures the deviation from this common approximation. We focus our attention on the case of smooth and plane plates with a metallic optical response modeled by a plasma model.

id: quant-ph/0111163
title: Darboux transformations and hidden quadratic supersymmetry of the one-dimensional stationary Dirac equation
authors: N. Debergh, A. A. Pecheritsin, B. F. Samsonov, B. Van den Bossche
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111163
abstract: A matricial Darboux operator intertwining two one-dimensional stationary Dirac Hamiltonians is constructed. This operator is such that the potential of the second Dirac Hamiltonian as well as the corresponding eigenfunctions are determined through the knowledge of only two eigenfunctions of the first Dirac Hamiltonian. Moreover this operator together with its adjoint and the two Hamiltonians generate a quadratic deformation of the superalgebra subtending the usual supersymmetric quantum mechanics. Our developments are illustrated on the free particle case and the generalized Coulomb interaction. In the latter case, a relativistic counterpart of shape-invariance is observed.

id: quant-ph/0111164
title: Systems and Subsystems in Quantum Communication
authors: V.V.Belokurov, O.A.Khrustalev, V.A.Sadovnichy, O.D.Timofeevskaya
comments: 6 pages, TEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111164
abstract: In this paper we develop the conditional density matrix formalism for adequate description of division and unificationof quantum systems. Applications of this approach to the descriptions of parapositronium, quantum teleportation and others examples are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0111165
title: Violation of Bell inequality for thermal states of interaction qubits via a multi-qubit Heisenberg model
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, few changed, accepted by New J. Phys
journal: New Journal of Physics 4, 11.1-11.9 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111165
abstract: We study the violations of Bell inequality for thermal states of qubits in a multi-qubit Heisenberg model as a function of temperature and external magnetic fields. Unlike the behaviors of the entanglement the violation can not be obtained by increasing the temperature or the magnetic field. The threshold temperatures of the violation are found be less than that of the entanglement. We also consider a realistic cavity-QED model which is a special case of the mutli-qubit Heisenberg model.

id: quant-ph/0111166
title: Implementation of Universal Control on a Decoherence-Free Qubit
authors: Evan M. Fortunato, Lorenza Viola, Jonathan Hodges, Grum Teklemariam, David G. Cory
comments: 15 pages, 5 eps figures; REVTeX style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111166
abstract: We demonstrate storage and manipulation of one qubit encoded into a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) of two nuclear spins using liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. The DFS is spanned by states that are unaffected by arbitrary collective phase noise. Encoding and decoding procedures reversibly map an arbitrary qubit state from a single data spin to the DFS and back. The implementation demonstrates the robustness of the DFS memory against engineered dephasing with arbitrary strength as well as a substantial increase in the amount of quantum information retained, relative to an un-encoded qubit, under both engineered and natural noise processes. In addition, a universal set of logical manipulations over the encoded qubit is also realized. Although intrinsic limitations prevent maintaining full noise tolerance during quantum gates, we show how the use of dynamical control methods at the encoded level can ensure that computation is protected with finite distance. We demonstrate noise-tolerant control over a DFS qubit in the presence of engineered phase noise significantly stronger than observed from natural noise sources.

id: quant-ph/0111167
title: On Quantum Control via Encoded Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Lorenza Viola
comments: 12 pages, no figures; REVTeX style. This note collects various theoretical considerations complementing/motivated by the experimental demonstration of encoded control by Fortunato et al
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0111167
abstract: I revisit the ideas underlying dynamical decoupling methods within the framework of quantum information processing, and examine their potential for direct implementations in terms of encoded rather than physical degrees of freedom. The usefulness of encoded decoupling schemes as a tool for engineering both closed- and open-system encoded evolutions is investigated based on simple examples.

id: astro-ph/0111438
title: Properties of the quantum universe in quasistationary states and cosmological puzzles
authors: V. E. Kuzmichev, V. V. Kuzmichev
comments: to be published in Eur. Phys. J. C; 24 pages, 1 EPS figure, 1 table
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C23:337-348,2002
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0111438
abstract: Old and new puzzles of cosmology are reexamined from the point of view of quantum theory of the universe developed here. It is shown that in proposed approach the difficulties of the standard cosmology do not arise. The theory predicts the observed dimensions of nonhomogeneities of matter density and the amplitude of fluctuations of the cosmic background radiation temperature in the Universe and points to a new quantum mechanism of their origin. The large scale structure in the Universe is explained by the growth of nonhomogeneities which arise from primordial quantum fluctuations due to finite width of quasistationary states. The theory allows to obtain the value of the deceleration parameter which is in good agreement with the recent SNe Ia measurements. It explains the large value of entropy of the Universe and describes other parameters.

id: astro-ph/0111557
title: Time-dependent correlations of inflationary perturbations
authors: Wo-Lung Lee, Li-Zhi Fang
comments: 7 pages. To appear in Europhysics Letters v.56, no.6, Dec. 15th
journal: Europhys.Lett. 56 (2001) 904-910
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0111557
abstract: We show that if the primordial classical perturbations were generated by the gravitational particle creation during inflation, and followed by an evolution of quantum-to-classical transition,the time dependent correlation of these perturbations is long-tailed with a correlation time larger than the Hubble-time. Consequently, the inflationary perturbations are locally scale-scale correlated. Hence, the interaction of the fields during inflation can be explored via the detection of the local scale-scale correlation of the CMB fluctuations.

id: cond-mat/0111026
title: From quantum master equation to random walk
authors: C. F. Huang
comments: Replaced with improvements
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111026
abstract: It is shown in this paper that the quantum master equation can be mapped to a modified continuous time random walk (CTRW) if the relaxation term is composed of transitions over a set of states. When the Hamiltonian is time-independent and transitions are between its eigenlevels, such a modified CTRW reduces to the Markovian walk equivalent to the Pauli master equation. On the other hand, the memory in such a modified CTRW is composed of a temporal factor and the probability determined by the Liouville flow when the relaxation term is reduced as a special dephasing term.

id: cond-mat/0111112
title: Generalized thermodynamics of q-deformed bosons and fermions
authors: A. Lavagno, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 8 pages, Physical Review E in press
journal: Phys.Rev. E65 (2002) 036101
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111112
abstract: We study the thermostatistics of q-deformed bosons and fermions obeying the symmetric algebra and show that it can be built on the formalism of q-calculus. The entire structure of thermodynamics is preserved if ordinary derivatives are replaced by an appropriate Jackson derivative. In this framework, we derive the most important thermodynamic functions describing the q-boson and q-fermion ideal gases in the thermodynamic limit. We also investigate the semi-classical limit and the low temperature regime and demonstrate that the nature of the q-deformation gives rise to pure quantum statistical effects stronger than undeformed boson and fermion particles.

id: cond-mat/0111139
title: Spin Coherent-State Path Integrals and the Instanton Calculus
authors: Anupam Garg, Evgueny Kochetov, Kee-Su Park, Michael Stone
comments: 32 Pages, RevTex. No figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111139
abstract: We use an instanton approximation to the continuous-time spin coherent-state path integral to obtain the tunnel splitting of classically degenerate ground states. We show that provided the fluctuation determinant is carefully evaluated, the path integral expression is accurate to order O(1/j). We apply the method to the LMG model and to the molecular magnet Fe_8 in a transverse field.

id: cond-mat/0111236
title: Collective excitation of trapped degenerate Fermi gases
authors: Bogdan Damski, Krzysztof Sacha, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version accepted for publication in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B 35, L153 (2002).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111236
abstract: We show that the slow driving of a focused laser beam through the cloud of trapped cold fermions allows for a creation of the collective excitation in the system. The method, proposed originally by us for bosons, seems to be quite feasible experimentally -- it requires only an appropriate change in time of the potential in atomic traps, as realized in laboratories already.

id: cond-mat/0111242
title: Polarization-Correlated Photon Pairs from a Single Quantum Dot
authors: Charles Santori, David Fattal, Matthew Pelton, Glenn S. Solomon, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, revised discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. B 66, 045308 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111242
abstract: Polarization correlation in a linear basis, but not entanglement, is observed between the biexciton and single-exciton photons emitted by a single InAs quantum dot in a two-photon cascade. The results are well described quantitatively by a probabilistic model that includes two decay paths for a biexciton through a non-degenerate pair of one-exciton states, with the polarization of the emitted photons depending on the decay path. The results show that spin non-degeneracy due to quantum-dot asymmetry is a significant obstacle to the realization of an entangled-photon generation device.

id: cond-mat/0111256
title: Probing dipolar effects with condensate shape oscillation
authors: S. Yi, L. You
comments: revised version, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111256
abstract: We discuss the low energy shape oscillations of a magnetic trapped atomic condensate including the spin dipole interaction. When the nominal isotropic s-wave interaction strength becomes tunable through a Feshbach resonance (e.g. as for $^{85}$Rb atoms), anisotropic dipolar effects are shown to be detectable under current experimental conditions [E. A. Donley {\it et al.}, Nature {\bf 412}, 295 (2001)].

id: cond-mat/0111343
title: Shear flow and Kelvin-Helmholtz instability in superfluids
authors: R. Blaauwgeers, V.B. Eltsov, G. Eska, A.P. Finne, R.P. Haley, M. Krusius, J.J. Ruohio, L. Skrbek, G.E. Volovik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, version submitted to PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 89 (2002) 155301
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111343
abstract: The first realization of instabilities in the shear flow between two superfluids is examined. The interface separating the A and B phases of superfluid He-3 is magnetically stabilized. With uniform rotation we create a state with discontinuous tangential velocities at the interface, supported by the difference in quantized vorticity in the two phases. This state remains stable and nondissipative to high relative velocities, but finally undergoes an instability when an interfacial mode is excited and some vortices cross the phase boundary. The measured properties of the instability are consistent with a modified Kelvin-Helmholtz theory.

id: cond-mat/0111490
title: Bose-Einstein condensation in the presence of a uniform field and a point-like impurity
authors: R. M. Cavalcanti, P. Giacconi, G. Pupillo, R. Soldati
comments: 14 pages, REVTEX. Revised version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 053606
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111490
abstract: The behavior of an ideal $D$-dimensional boson gas in the presence of a uniform gravitational field is analyzed. It is explicitly shown that, contrarily to an old standing folklore, the three-dimensional gas does not undergo Bose-Einstein condensation at finite temperature. On the other hand, Bose-Einstein condensation occurs at $T\neq 0$ for $D=1,2,3$ if there is a point-like impurity at the bottom of the vessel containing the gas.

id: cond-mat/0111543
title: Voltage-tunable singlet-triplet transition in lateral quantum dots
authors: Jordan Kyriakidis, M. Pioro-Ladriere, M. Ciorga, A. S. Sachrajda, P. Hawrylak
comments: 8.2 double-column pages, 10 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 66, 035320 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0111543
abstract: Results of calculations and high source-drain transport measurements are presented which demonstrate voltage-tunable entanglement of electron pairs in lateral quantum dots. At a fixed magnetic field, the application of a judiciously-chosen gate voltage alters the ground-state of an electron pair from an entagled spin singlet to a spin triplet.

id: cs/0111062
title: One-way communication complexity and the Neciporuk lower bound on formula size
authors: Hartmut Klauck
comments: 32 pages, conference versions at ISAAC '97, Complexity '98, STOC '00
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0111062
abstract: In this paper the Neciporuk method for proving lower bounds on the size of Boolean formulae is reformulated in terms of one-way communication complexity. We investigate the scenarios of probabilistic formulae, nondeterministic formulae, and quantum formulae. In all cases we can use results about one-way communication complexity to prove lower bounds on formula size. In the latter two cases we newly develop the employed communication complexity bounds. The main results regarding formula size are as follows: A polynomial size gap between probabilistic/quantum and deterministic formulae. A near-quadratic size gap for nondeterministic formulae with limited access to nondeterministic bits. A near quadratic lower bound on quantum formula size, as well as a polynomial separation between the sizes of quantum formulae with and without multiple read random inputs. The methods for quantum and probabilistic formulae employ a variant of the Neciporuk bound in terms of the VC-dimension. Regarding communication complexity we give optimal separations between one-way and two-way protocols in the cases of limited nondeterministic and quantum communication, and we show that zero-error quantum one-way communication complexity asymptotically equals deterministic one-way communication complexity for total functions.

id: gr-qc/0111006
title: Linear constraints from generally covariant systems with quadratic constraints
authors: Merced Montesinos, Jose David Vergara
comments: Latex file, revtex4, 18 pages, no figures. This version includes the corrections to many misprints of v1 and also the ones of the published version. The conceptual and technical parts of the paper are not altered
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 064002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0111006
abstract: How to make compatible both boundary and gauge conditions for generally covariant theories using the gauge symmetry generated by first class constraints is studied. This approach employs finite gauge transformations in contrast with previous works which use infinitesimal ones. Two kinds of variational principles are taken into account; the first one features non-gauge-invariant actions whereas the second includes fully gauge-invariant actions. Furthermore, it is shown that it is possible to rewrite fully gauge-invariant actions featuring first class constraints quadratic in the momenta into first class constraints linear in the momenta (and homogeneous in some cases) due to the full gauge invariance of their actions. This shows that the gauge symmetry present in generally covariant theories having first class constraints quadratic in the momenta is not of a different kind with respect to the one of theories with first class constraints linear in the momenta if fully gauge-invariant actions are taken into account for the former theories. These ideas are implemented for the parametrized relativistic free particle, parametrized harmonic oscillator, and the SL(2,R) model.

id: gr-qc/0111020
title: Decoherent histories on graphs
authors: R.F. Blute, I.T. Ivanov, P. Panangaden
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0111020
abstract: The consistent histories approach to quantum mechanics is traditionally based on linearly ordered sequences of events. We extend the histories formalism to sets of events whose causal ordering is described by directed acyclic graphs. The need for a global time is eliminated and our construction reflects the causal structure faithfully.

id: gr-qc/0111105
title: Decoherence and gravitational backgrounds
authors: Serge Reynaud, Brahim Lamine, Astrid Lambrecht, Paulo Maia Neto, Marc-Thierry Jaekel
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 1003-1012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0111105
abstract: We study the decoherence process associated with the scattering of stochastic gravitational waves. We discuss the case of macroscopic systems, such as the planetary motion of the Moon around the Earth, for which gravitational scattering is found to dominate decoherence though it has a negligible influence on damping. This contrast is due to the very high effective temperature of the background of gravitational waves in our galactic environment.

id: hep-ph/0111289
title: Upward and Horizontal Tau Airshowers by UHE Neutrinos
authors: Daniele Fargion
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, HEP2001 Conference, 13 July,Budapest. Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology, 2001
journal: Proceedings of the EPS International Conference on High Energy Physics, Budapest, 2001 (D. Horvath, P. Levai, A. Patkos,eds.), JHEP PrHEP-hep2001/208
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0111289
abstract: Upward and Horizontal Tau Air-showers (UPTAUS and HORTAUS) emerging from the Earth crust, mountain chains or deep plate boundaries are the most powerful signals of Ultra High Energy UHE anti neutrinos electron at PeV and neutrino and anti-neutrino tau at energies near and above 10^15-10^19 eV. The large tau Air-showers multiplicity N in secondaries N_opt =10^12 E_tau/ PeV, N_gamma= 10^8 E_tau/PeV, N_{e^- e^+}= 2 10^7 E_tau/PeV, N_mu = 3 10^5 E_tau/PeV^{0.85}, make easy their discover. UHE nu_tau, nu_tau because neutrino flavor mixing, nu_mu <--> nu_tau, should be as abundant as nu_mu, bar-nu_mu. Also bar{nu}_e, near the Glashow W resonance peak, E_bar{nu_e}= M^2_W / 2m_e = 6.3 10^{15} eV, may generate tau Air-showers. The HORTAUS may test the UHE neutrino interactions leading to additional fine-tuned test of New TeV Physics in Mountain Valleys and Earth crust horizontal edges. UPTAUS or HORTAUS, beaming toward high mountains, air-planes, ballons and satellites should flash gamma, muon, X and Cherenkov lights toward detectors. Such UPTAUS might already hit nearby satellite GRO gamma detectors flashing it by short (millisecond), hard, diluted gamma-burst at the edge of BATSE threshold. We claimed their identity with the observed BATSE 78 Terrestrial Gamma Flashes (TGF). The TGF clustering toward Galactic Center and Plane, known AGNs source strongly support their UHE Tau neutrino origin.

id: hep-ph/0111321
title: On the equivalence of regularization schemes
authors: Ji-Feng Yang
comments: 9 pages, LaTex, no figure, revised version, new style,to appear in Comm.Theor.Phys
journal: Commun.Theor.Phys.38:317-321,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0111321
abstract: We illustrated via the sunset diagram that dimensional regularization 'deforms' the nonlocal contents of multi-loop diagrams with its equivalence to cut-off regularization scheme recovered only after sub-divergence were subtracted. Then we employed a differential equation approach for calculating loop diagrams to verify that dimensional regularization deformed the 'low energy' contents before subtraction. The virtues of the differential equation approach were argued especially in non-perturbative perspective.

id: hep-th/0111011
title: Wigner quantum systems (Lie superalgebraic approach)
authors: T. D. Palev, N. I. Stoilova
comments: 8 pages, Latex. to be published in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 49 (2002) 395-404
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111011
abstract: We present three groups of examples of Wigner Quantum Systems related to the Lie superalgebras $osp(1/6n)$, $sl(1/3n)$ and $sl(n/3)$ and discuss shortly their physical features. In the case of $sl(1/3n)$ we indicate that the underlying geometry is noncommutative.

id: hep-th/0111037
title: Casimir Energy of Confined Fields: A Role of the RG Invariance
authors: Igor O. Cherednikov
comments: 5 pages, ijmpa1.sty. Talk at the conference QFEXT01, 10-14 Sep 2001, Leipzig. Version to be published in IJMPA
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A17 (2002) 874-878
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111037
abstract: A role of the renormalization group invariance in calculations of the ground state energy for models with confined fermion fields is discussed. The case of the (1+1)D MIT bag with massive fermions is studied in detail.

id: hep-th/0111039
title: On the Failure of Spin-Statistics Connection in Quantum Gravity
authors: G.Alexanian, A.P. Balachandran
comments: Published version; 16 pages, LaTeX; Added references, extra comments, one more appendix (C) and extra arguments in sections 4 and 6
journal: Phys.Lett. B537 (2002) 103-116
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111039
abstract: Many years ago Friedman and Sorkin [1] established the existence of certain topological solitonic excitations in quantum gravity called (topological) geons. Geons can have quantum numbers like charge and can be tensorial or spinorial having integer or half-odd integer spin. A striking result is that geons can violate the canonical spin-statistics connection [2,3]. Such violation induces novel physical effects at low energies. The latter will be small since the geon mass is expected to be of the order of Plank mass. Nevertheless, these effects are very striking and include CPT and causality violations and distortion of the cosmic microwave spectrum. Interesting relations of geon dynamics to supersymmetry are also discussed.

id: hep-th/0111181
title: Exact Solution of the Harmonic Oscillator in Arbitrary Dimensions with Minimal Length Uncertainty Relations
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Djordje Minic, Naotoshi Okamura, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 15 pages, REVTEX4, new section V added
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 125027
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111181
abstract: We determine the energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the harmonic oscillator where the coordinates and momenta are assumed to obey the modified commutation relations [x_i,p_j]=i hbar[(1+ beta p^2) delta_{ij} + beta' p_i p_j]. These commutation relations are motivated by the fact they lead to the minimal length uncertainty relations which appear in perturbative string theory. Our solutions illustrate how certain features of string theory may manifest themselves in simple quantum mechanical systems through the modification of the canonical commutation relations. We discuss whether such effects are observable in precision measurements on electrons trapped in strong magnetic fields.

id: hep-th/0111188
title: Area Law for Localization-Entropy in Local Quantum Physics
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: typos removed, changed format (14 pages)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111188
abstract: The previously developed algebraic lightfront holography is used in conjunction with the tensor splitting of the chiral theory on the causal horizon. In this way a universal area law for the entanglement entropy of the vacuum relative to the split (tensor factorized) vacuum is obtained. The universality of the area law is a result of the kinematical structure of the properly defined lightfront degrees of freedom. We consider this entropy associated with causal horizon of the wedge algebra in Minkowski spacetime as an analog of the quantum Bekenstein black hole entropy similar to the way in which the Unruh temperature for the wedge algebra may be viewed as an analog in Minkowski spacetime of the Hawking thermal behavior. My more recent preprint hep-th/0202085 presents other aspects of the same problem.

id: hep-th/0111197
title: Quantum correlations, measurement and the origin of uncertainty
authors: Daniele Tommasini
comments: 5 pages. This can be considered as a note or an appendix to my previous paper "Quantum Theory finally reconcilied with Special Relativity" quant-ph/0111083
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111197
abstract: I argue that the correlations that are predicted by Quantum Field Theory should not be interpreted as a real sign of non locality.

id: hep-th/0111200
title: Landau Levels in the noncommutative $AdS_2$
authors: R. Iengo, R. Ramachandran
comments: 19 pages, Latex, references and clarifications added including 2 figures
journal: JHEP 0202 (2002) 017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111200
abstract: We formulate the Landau problem in the context of the noncommutative analog of a surface of constant negative curvature, that is $AdS_2$ surface, and obtain the spectrum and contrast the same with the Landau levels one finds in the case of the commutative $AdS_2$ space.

id: hep-th/0111214
title: A topological formulation of the Planck-Einstein law E=n
authors: Antonio F. Ranada
comments: 18 pages, no figures Reason of replacement: the proof of the main result is somewhat clearer in this version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0111214
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn

id: math-ph/0111012
title: On the propagation of semiclassical Wigner functions
authors: Pedro P. de M. Rios, A.M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. To appear in J. Phys. A. This version matches the one set to print and differs from the previous one (07 Nov 2001) by the addition of two references, a few extra words of explanation and an augmented figure caption
journal: J.Phys A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) 2609-2617
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0111012
abstract: We establish the difference between the propagation of semiclassical Wigner functions and classical Liouville propagation. First we re-discuss the semiclassical limit for the propagator of Wigner functions, which on its own leads to their classical propagation. Then, via stationary phase evaluation of the full integral evolution equation, using the semiclassical expressions of Wigner functions, we provide the correct geometrical prescription for their semiclassical propagation. This is determined by the classical trajectories of the tips of the chords defined by the initial semiclassical Wigner function and centered on their arguments, in contrast to the Liouville propagation which is determined by the classical trajectories of the arguments themselves.

id: math-ph/0111013
title: Comment on "Geometric Phases for Mixed States in Interferometry"
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: this paper has been supplanted by math-ph/0111041, "Mixed State Holonomies", considerable material having been added there
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0111013
abstract: We find for the unitary evolution of spin-1/2 systems that the "purely mathematical mixed state holonomy of Uhlmann limitedly agrees, in the case of evolution over geodesic spherical triangles, with the holonomy "in the experimental context of quantum interferometry" recently proposed by Sjoqvist, Pati, Ekert, Anandan, Ericsson, Oi and Vedral (Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 [2000], 2845-2848).

id: math-ph/0111041
title: Mixed State Holonomies
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: eight pages, LaTex, four figures, modified presentation
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 60(2):123-133; May 2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0111041
abstract: Sjoqvist, Pati, Ekert, Anandan, Ericsson, Oi and Vedral (Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 [2000]) have recently "provided a physical prescription based on interferometry for introducing the total phase of a mixed state undergoing unitary evolution, which has been an elusive concept in the past". They note that "Uhlmann was probably the first to address the issue of mixed state holonomy, but as a purely mathematical problem". We investigate possible relationships between these "experimental" and "mathematical" approaches, by examining various quantum-theoretic scenarios. We find that the two methodologies, in general, yield inequivalent outcomes.

id: math-ph/0111044
title: On the Discrete Spectrum of a Pseudo-Relativistic Two-Body Pair Operator
authors: Semjon Vugalter, Timo Weidl
comments: 
journal: Annales Henri Poincare 4 (2003) 301-341
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0111044
abstract: We prove Cwikel-Lieb-Rosenbljum and Lieb-Thirring type bounds on the discrete spectrum of a two-body pair operator and calculate spectral asymptotics for the eigenvalue moments and the local spectral density in the pseudo-relativistic limit.

id: math-ph/0111045
title: Commensurate Harmonic Oscillators: Classical Symmetries
authors: Jean-Pierre Amiet, Stefan Weigert
comments: 22 pages, Latex
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002) 4110
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0111045
abstract: The symmetry properties of a classical N-dimensional harmonic oscillator with rational frequency ratios are studied from a global point of view. A commensurate oscillator possesses the same number of globally defined constants of motion as an isotropic oscillator. In both cases invariant phase-space functions form the algebra su(N) with respect to the Poisson bracket. In the isotropic case, the phase-space flows generated by the invariants can be integrated globally to a set of finite transformations isomorphic to the group SU(N). For a commensurate oscillator, however, the group SU(N) of symmetry transformations is found to exist only on a reduced phase space, due to unavoidable singularities of the flow in the full phase space. It is therefore crucial to distinguish carefully between local and global definitions of symmetry transformations in phase space. This result solves the longstanding problem of which symmetry to associate with a commensurate harmonic oscillator.

id: nlin/0111014
title: Stability of quantum motion and correlation decay
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 32 pages, 10 EPS figures and 2 color PS figures. Higher resolution color figures can be obtained from authors; minor changes, to appear in J.Phys.A (March 2002)
journal: J.Phys.A 35, 1455 (2002)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0111014
abstract: We derive a simple and general relation between the fidelity of quantum motion, characterizing the stability of quantum dynamics with respect to arbitrary static perturbation of the unitary evolution propagator, and the integrated time auto-correlation function of the generator of perturbation. Surprisingly, this relation predicts the slower decay of fidelity the faster decay of correlations is. In particular, for non-ergodic and non-mixing dynamics, where asymptotic decay of correlations is absent, a qualitatively different and faster decay of fidelity is predicted on a time scale 1/delta as opposed to mixing dynamics where the fidelity is found to decay exponentially on a time-scale 1/delta^2, where delta is a strength of perturbation. A detailed discussion of a semi-classical regime of small effective values of Planck constant is given where classical correlation functions can be used to predict quantum fidelity decay. Note that the correct and intuitively expected classical stability behavior is recovered in the classical limit hbar->0, as the two limits delta->0 and hbar->0 do not commute. In addition we also discuss non-trivial dependence on the number of degrees of freedom. All the theoretical results are clearly demonstrated numerically on a celebrated example of a quantized kicked top.

id: nlin/0111042
title: Ehrenfest times for classically chaotic systems
authors: P.G.Silvestrov, C.W.J.Beenakker
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.E 65, 035208(R) (2002)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0111042
abstract: We describe the quantum mechanical spreading of a Gaussian wave packet by means of the semiclassical WKB approximation of Berry and Balazs. We find that the time scale $\tau$ on which this approximation breaks down in a chaotic system is larger than the Ehrenfest times considered previously. In one dimension $\tau=\fr{7}{6}\lambda^{-1}\ln(A/\hbar)$, with $\lambda$ the Lyapunov exponent and $A$ a typical classical action.

id: nlin/0111051
title: Sensitivity to perturbations in a quantum chaotic billiard
authors: Diego A. Wisniacki, Eduardo Vergini, Horacio M. Pastawski, Fernando M. Cucchietti
comments: Significantly revised version. To appear in Physical Review E Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Review E 65, 055206(R) 2002
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0111051
abstract: The Loschmidt echo (LE) measures the ability of a system to return to the initial state after a forward quantum evolution followed by a backward perturbed one. It has been conjectured that the echo of a classically chaotic system decays exponentially, with a decay rate given by the minimum between the width $\Gamma$ of the local density of states and the Lyapunov exponent. As the perturbation strength is increased one obtains a cross-over between both regimes. These predictions are based on situations where the Fermi Golden Rule (FGR) is valid. By considering a paradigmatic fully chaotic system, the Bunimovich stadium billiard, with a perturbation in a regime for which the FGR manifestly does not work, we find a cross over from $\Gamma$ to Lyapunov decay. We find that, challenging the analytic interpretation, these conjetures are valid even beyond the expected range.

id: nucl-th/0111037
title: Kinetic equation for strongly interacting dense Fermi systems
authors: P. Lipavsky, K. Morawetz, V. Spicka
comments: Book
journal: Annales Phys.(France) 26 (2001) 10-254
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0111037
abstract: We review the non-relativistic Green's-function approach to the kinetic equations for Fermi liquids far from equilibrium. The emphasis is on the consistent treatment of the off-shell motion between collisions and on the non-instant and non-local picture of binary collisions. The resulting kinetic equation is of the Boltzmann type, and it represents an interpolation between the theory of transport in metals and the theory of moderately dense gases. The free motion of particles is renormalised by various mean field and mass corrections in the spirit of Landau's quasiparticles in metals. The collisions are non-local in the spirit of Enskog's theory of non-ideal gases. The collisions are moreover non-instant, a feature which is absent in the theory of gases, but which is shown to be important for dense Fermi systems. In spite of its formal complexity, the presented theory has a simple implementation within the Monte-Carlo simulation schemes. Applications in nuclear physics are given for heavy-ion reactions and the results are compared with the former theory and recent experimental data. The effect of the off-shell motion and the non-local and non-instant collisions on the dynamics of the system can be characterised in terms of thermodynamic functions such as the energy density or the pressure tensor. Non-equilibrium counterparts of these functions and the corresponding balance equations are derived and discussed from two points of view. Firstly, they are used to prove the conservation laws. Secondly, the role of individual microscopic mechanisms in fluxes of particles and momenta and in transformations of the energy is clarified.

id: nucl-th/0111076
title: Two-potential approach to multi-dimensional tunneling
authors: S.A. Gurvitz
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, corrected typos, to appear in ``Multiple Facets of Quantization and Supersymmetry/Michael Marinov Memorial Volume'', World Scientific
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0111076
abstract: We consider tunneling to the continuum in a multi-dimensional potential. It is demonstrate that this problem can be treated as two separate problems: a) a bound state and b) a non-resonance scattering problem, by a proper splitting of the potential into two components. Finally we obtain the resonance energy and the partial tunneling widths in terms of the bound and the scattering state wave functions. This result can be used in a variety of tunneling problems. As an application we consider the ionization of atomic states by an external field. We obtain very simple analytical expressions for the tunneling width and for the angular distribution of tunneling electrons. It is shown that the angular spread of electrons in the final state is determined by the semi-classical traversal tunneling time.

id: physics/0111042
title: Stability of excited atoms in small cavities
authors: G. Flores-Hidalgo, A.P.C. Malbouisson, Y.W. Milla
comments: 7 pages, no figures, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A65, 063414 (2002)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0111042
abstract: We consider a system consisting of an atom in the approximation of a harmonic oscillator of frequency $\bar{\omega}$, coupled to the scalar potential inside a spherical reflecting cavity of radius R. We use {\it dressed} states introduced in a previous publication [Andion, Malbouisson and Matos Neto, J. Phys. A34, 3735 (2001)], which allow a non-perturbative unified description of the atom radiation process, in both cases, of a finite or an arbitrarily large cavity. We perform a study of the energy distribution in a small cavity, with the initial condition that the atom is in the first excited state and we conclude for the quasi-stability of the excited atom. For instance, for a frequency $\bar{\omega}$ of the order $\bar{\omega}\sim 4.00\times 10^{14}/s$ (in the visible red), starting from the initial condition that the atom is in the first excited level, we find that for a cavity with diameter $2R\sim 1.0\times 10^{-6}m$, the probability that the atom be at any time still in the first excited level, will be of the order of 97%. For a typical microwave frequency $\bar{\omega}\sim 2,00\times 10^{10}/s$ we find stability in the first excited state also of the order of 97% for a cavity radius $R\sim 1.4\times 10^{-2}m$.

