id: quant-ph/0112001
title: The quantum dynamics of two coupled qubits
authors: G. J. Milburn, R. Laflamme, B. C. Sanders, E. Knill
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 65(3), 032316 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112001
abstract: We investigate the difference between classical and quantum dynamics of coupled magnetic dipoles. We prove that in general the dynamics of the classical interaction Hamiltonian differs from the corresponding quantum model, regardless of the initial state. The difference appears as non positive-definite diffusion terms in the quantum evolution equation of an appropriate positive phase-space probability density. Thus, it is not possible to express the dynamics in terms of a convolution of a positive transition probability function and the initial condition as can be done in the classical case. We conclude that the dynamics is a quantum element of NMR quantum information processing. There are two limits where our quantum evolution coincide with the classical one: the short time limit before spin-spin interaction sets in and the long time limit when phase diffusion is incorporated.

id: quant-ph/0112002
title: The creation of large photon-number path entanglement conditioned on photodetection
authors: Pieter Kok, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 65, 052104 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112002
abstract: Large photon-number path entanglement is an important resource for enhanced precision measurements and quantum imaging. We present a general constructive protocol to create any large photon number path-entangled state based on the conditional detection of single photons. The influence of imperfect detectors is considered and an asymptotic scaling law is derived.

id: quant-ph/0112003
title: Path integral for a pair of time-dependent coupled and driven oscillators
authors: F. Benamira, L. Guechi
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 53 No 9 (2003) 717-726
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112003
abstract: The propagator for a certain class of two time-dependent coupled and driven harmonic oscillators with time-varying angular frequencies and masses is evaluated by path integration. This is simply done through suitably chosen generalized canonical transformations and without presupposing the knownledge of any auxiliary equation. The time-dependent oscillators system with an exponentially growing masses and coupling coefficient in time may be considered as particular case.

id: quant-ph/0112004
title: Entanglement Concentration Using Quantum Statistics
authors: N. Paunkovic, Y. Omar, S. Bose, V. Vedral
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 187903 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112004
abstract: We propose an entanglement concentration scheme which uses only the effects of quantum statistics of indistinguishable particles. This establishes the fact that useful quantum information processing can be accomplished by quantum statistics alone. Due to the basis independence of statistical effects, our protocol requires less knowledge of the initial state than most entanglement concentration schemes. Moreover, no explicit controlled operation is required at any stage.

id: quant-ph/0112005
title: Seven Steps Towards the Classical World
authors: Valia Allori, Detlef D¨¹rr, Shelly Goldstein, Nino Zangh¨ª
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX, uses latexsym
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112005
abstract: Classical physics is about real objects, like apples falling from trees, whose motion is governed by Newtonian laws. In standard Quantum Mechanics only the wave function or the results of measurements exist, and to answer the question of how the classical world can be part of the quantum world is a rather formidable task. However, this is not the case for Bohmian mechanics, which, like classical mechanics, is a theory about real objects. In Bohmian terms, the problem of the classical limit becomes very simple: when do the Bohmian trajectories look Newtonian?

id: quant-ph/0112006
title: Comments on `Stable Quantum Computation of Unstable Classical Chaos,' `Efficient Quantum Computing Insensitive to Phase Errors,' and `Quantum Computer Inverting Time Arrow for Macroscopic Systems'
authors: Alec Maassen van den Brink
comments: REVTeX 4, 1 p., no figures, uses amsmath package. `Alec' is my first name, `Maassen van den Brink' my family name
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112006
abstract: Recently, the paper B. Georgeot and D.L. Shepelyansky, Phys. Rev. Lett._86_, 5393 (2001) has been criticized [C. Zalka, quant-ph/0110019; L. Di'osi, quant-ph/0110026]. The Letter claims an exponential speedup and reduction in error sensitivity, when phase-space density evolution under the Arnold cat map is performed on a quantum computer. On the one hand, some points have not yet been made by previous respondents. On the other, the authors' reaction [quant-ph/0110142] raises new issues. The present note addresses both.

id: quant-ph/0112007
title: Distinguishing separable and entangled states
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Pablo A. Parrilo, Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 4 pages, Latex2e. Expanded discussion of numerical procedures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 88, No. 18, 187904, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112007
abstract: We show how to design families of operational criteria that distinguish entangled from separable quantum states. The simplest of these tests corresponds to the well-known Peres-Horodecki positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion, and the more complicated tests are strictly stronger. The new criteria are tractable due to powerful computational and theoretical methods for the class of convex optimization problems known as semidefinite programs. We successfully applied the results to many low-dimensional states from the literature where the PPT test fails. As a byproduct of the criteria, we provide an explicit construction of the corresponding entanglement witnesses.

id: quant-ph/0112008
title: What is Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Valia Allori, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX. Based on the talk given at the Biannual IQSA Meeting in Cesena, Italy, March 31 - April 5, 2001. Submitted to the volume collecting the proceedings of the conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112008
abstract: Bohmian mechanics is a quantum theory with a clear ontology. To make clear what we mean by this, we shall proceed by recalling first what are the problems of quantum mechanics. We shall then briefly sketch the basics of Bohmian mechanics and indicate how Bohmian mechanics solves these problems and clarifies the status and the role of of the quantum formalism.

id: quant-ph/0112009
title: On the Classical Limit of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Valia Allori, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 15 pages, LaTeX. Based on the talk given at the Biannual IQSA Meeting in Cesena, Italy, March 31 - April 5, 2001. Submitted to the volume collecting the proceedings of the conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112009
abstract: Contrary to the widespread belief, the problem of the emergence of classical mechanics from quantum mechanics is still open. In spite of many results on the $\h \to 0$ asymptotics, it is not yet clear how to explain within standard quantum mechanics the classical motion of macroscopic bodies. In this paper we shall analyze special cases of classical behavior in the framework of a precise formulation of quantum mechanics, Bohmian mechanics, which contains in its own structure the possibility of describing real objects in an observer-independent way.

id: quant-ph/0112010
title: Phase Space Geometry in Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112010
abstract: Phase space is the state space of classical mechanics, and this manifold is normally endowed only with a symplectic form. The geometry of quantum mechanics is necessarily more complicated. Arguments will be given to show that augmenting the symplectic manifold of classical phase space with a Riemannian metric is sufficient for describing quantum mechanics. In particular, using such spaces, a fully satisfactory geometric version of quantization will be developed and described.

id: quant-ph/0112011
title: Geometric quantization of mechanical systems with time-dependent parameters
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112011
abstract: Quantum systems with adiabatic classical parameters are widely studied, e.g., in the modern holonomic quantum computation. We here provide complete geometric quantization of a Hamiltonian system with time-dependent parameters, without the adiabatic assumption. A Hamiltonian of such a system is affine in the temporal derivative of parameter functions. This leads to the geometric Berry factor phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0112012
title: Entanglement versus Bell violations and their behaviour under local filtering operations
authors: Frank Verstraete, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 170401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112012
abstract: We discuss the relations between the violation of the CHSH Bell inequality for systems of two qubits on the one side and entanglement of formation, local filtering operations, and the entropy and purity on the other. We calculate the extremal Bell violations for a given amount of entanglement of formation and characterize the respective states, which turn out to have extremal properties also with respect to the entropy, purity and several entanglement monotones. The optimal local filtering operations leading to the maximal Bell violation for a given state are provided and the special role of the resulting Bell diagonal states in the context of Bell inequalities is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112013
title: Encoded Universality from a Single Physical Interaction
authors: J. Kempe, D. Bacon, D.P. DiVincenzo, K.B. Whaley
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol.1 (Special Issue) (2001) pp. 33-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112013
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the paradigm of encoded universality, using a Lie algebraic analysis to derive specific conditions under which physical interactions can provide universality. We discuss the significance of the tensor product structure in the quantum circuit model and use this to define the conjoining of encoded qudits. The construction of encoded gates between conjoined qudits is discussed in detail. We illustrate the general procedures with several examples from exchange-only quantum computation. In particular, we extend our earlier results showing universality with the isotropic exchange interaction to the derivation of encoded universality with the anisotropic exchange interaction, i.e., to the XY model. In this case the minimal encoding for universality is into qutrits rather than into qubits as was the case for isotropic (Heisenberg) exchange. We also address issues of fault-tolerance, leakage and correction of encoded qudits.

id: quant-ph/0112014
title: Exact gate-sequences for universal quantum computation using the XY-interaction alone
authors: J. Kempe, K.B. Whaley
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 65 (5), 052330 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112014
abstract: In a previous publication [1] we showed that it is possible to implement universal quantum computation with the anisotropic XY-Heisenberg exchange acting as a single interaction. To achieve this we used encodings of the states of the computation into a larger Hilbert space. This proof is non- constructive, however, and did not explicitly give the trade-offs in time that are required to implement encoded single qubit operations and encoded two-qubit gates. Here we explicitly give the gate-sequences needed to simulate these operations on encoded qubits and qutrits (three-level systems) and analyze the trade-offs involved. We also propose a possible layout for the qubits in a triangular arrangement.

id: quant-ph/0112015
title: Purification and correlated measurements of bipartite mixed states
authors: Jan Bouda, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 4 revtex pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112015
abstract: We prove that all purifications of a non-factorable state (i.e., the state which cannot be expressed in a form $\rho_{AB}=\rho_A\otimes\rho_B$) are entangled. We also show that for any bipartite state there exists a pair of measurements which are correlated on this state if and only if the state is non-factorable.

id: quant-ph/0112016
title: Aspects of Two-Level Systems under External Time Dependent Fields
authors: V. G. Bagrov, J. C. A. Barata, D. M. Gitman, W. F. Wreszinski
comments: To appear in J. Phys. A. Mathematical and General
journal: J.Phys.A35:175,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112016
abstract: The dynamics of two-level systems in time-dependent backgrounds is under consideration. We present some new exact solutions in special backgrounds decaying in time. On the other hand, following ideas of Feynman, Vernon and Hellwarth, we discuss in detail the possibility to reduce the quantum dynamics to a classical Hamiltonian system. This, in particular, opens the possibility to directly apply powerful methods of classical mechanics (e.g. KAM methods) to study the quantum system. Following such an approach, we draw conclusions of relevance for ``quantum chaos'' when the external background is periodic or quasi-periodic in time.

id: quant-ph/0112017
title: Quantum fast Fourier transform using multilevel atoms
authors: Ashok Muthukrishnan, C. R. Stroud Jr
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, to be published in J. Mod. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112017
abstract: We propose an implementation of the quantum fast Fourier transform algorithm in an entangled system of multilevel atoms. The Fourier transform occurs naturally in the unitary time evolution of energy eigenstates and is used to define an alternate wave-packet basis for quantum information in the atom. A change of basis from energy levels to wave packets amounts to a discrete quantum Fourier transform within each atom. The algorithm then reduces to a series of conditional phase transforms between two entangled atoms in mixed energy and wave-packet bases. We show how to implement such transforms using wave-packet control of the internal states of the ions in the linear ion-trap scheme for quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0112018
title: Continuous variable teleportation of single photon states (Proceedings version)
authors: Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann, Takayoshi Kobayashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5pages, 2 figures, Proceedings for ISQM-Tokyo'01
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112018
abstract: We investigate the changes to a single photon state caused by the non-maximal entanglement in continuous variable quantum teleportation. It is shown that the teleportation measurement introduces field coherence in the output.

id: quant-ph/0112019
title: Classical entanglement
authors: Douglas G. Danforth
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112019
abstract: Classical systems can be entangled. Entanglement is defined by coincidence correlations. Quantum entanglement experiments can be mimicked by a mechanical system with a single conserved variable and 77.8% conditional efficiency. Experiments are replicated for four particle entanglement swapping and GHZ entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0112020
title: Comment on "The Quantum State of a Propagating Laser Field"
authors: Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Two pages and one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112020
abstract: We comment on the theoretical quantum state of a propagating laser field proposed by van Enk and Fuchs [quant-ph/0104036, quant-ph/0111157] and clarify that the multimode description of the propagating laser field does not modify our analysis of continuous variable quantum teleportation [quant-ph/0103147]. Furthermore we point out that the ``complete measurements'' discussed by van Enk and Fuchs have not been achieved by existing technology and may not be possible even in principle.

id: quant-ph/0112021
title: Quantum Mechanics and Stochastic Mechanics for compatible observables at different times
authors: M. Correggi, G. Morchio
comments: Plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112021
abstract: Bohm Mechanics and Nelson Stochastic Mechanics are confronted with Quantum Mechanics in presence of non-interacting subsystems. In both cases, it is shown that correlations at different times of compatible position observables on stationary states agree with Quantum Mechanics only in the case of product wave functions. By appropriate Bell-like inequalities it is shown that no classical theory, in particular no stochastic process, can reproduce the quantum mechanical correlations of position variables of non interacting systems at different times.

id: quant-ph/0112022
title: Entanglement swapping between multi-qudit systems
authors: Jan Bouda, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 7 revtex pages, 4 figures
journal: J PHYS A-MATH GEN 34: (20) 4301-4311 MAY 25 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112022
abstract: We generalize the entanglement swapping scheme originally proposed for two pairs of qubits to an arbitrary number $q$ of systems composed from an arbitrary number $m_j$ of qudits. Each of the system is supposed to be prepared in a maximally entangled state of $m_j$ qudits, while different systems are not correlated at all. We show that when a set $\sum_{j=1}^q a_j$ particles (from each of the $q$ systems $a_j$ particles are measured) are subjected to a generalized Bell-type measurement, the resulting set of $\sum_{j=1}^q (m_j-a_j)$ particles will collapse into a maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0112023
title: Open n-Qubit System as a Quantum Computer with Four-Valued Logic
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112023
abstract: In this paper we generalize the usual model of quantum computer to a model in which the state is an operator of density matrix and the gates are general superoperators (quantum operations), not necessarily unitary. A mixed state (operator of density matrix) of n two-level quantum system (open or closed n-qubit system) is considered as an element of $4^{n}$-dimensional operator Hilbert space (Liouville space). It allows to use quantum computer (circuit) model with 4-valued logic. The gates of this model are general superoperators which act on n-ququats state. Ququat is quantum state in a 4-dimensional (operator) Hilbert space. Unitary two-valued logic gates and quantum operations for n-qubit open system are considered as four-valued logic gates acting on n-ququats. We discuss properties of quantum 4-valued logic gates. In the paper we study universality for quantum four-valued logic gates.

id: quant-ph/0112024
title: Specification of statistical description in quantum mechanics
authors: Yuri A. Rylov
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112024
abstract: It is shown that the statistical conception of quantum mechanics is dynamical but not probabilistic, i.e. the statistical description in quantum mechanics is founded on dynamics. A use of the probability theory, when it takes place, is auxiliary. Attention is drawn to the fact that in the quantum mechanics there are two different objects: an individual object to be statistically described and a statistical average object, which is a result of the statistical description. Identification of the two different objects (a use of the same term for both) is an origin of many known quantum mechanics paradoxes.

id: quant-ph/0112025
title: Universal Quantum Gates for Single Cooper Pair Box Based Quantum Computing
authors: P. Echternach, C. P. Williams, S.C. Dultz, P. Delsing, S. L. Braunstein, J. P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 3 imbedded figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 1, Special (2001) 143-150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112025
abstract: We describe a method for achieving arbitrary 1-qubit gates and controlled-NOT gates within the context of the Single Cooper Pair Box (SCB) approach to quantum computing. Such gates are sufficient to support universal quantum computation. Quantum gate operations are achieved by applying sequences of voltages and magnetic fluxes to single qubits or pairs of qubits. Neither the temporal duration, nor the starting time, of a gate operation is used as a control parameter. As a result, the quantum gates have a constant and known duration, and depend upon standard control parameter sequences regardless of when the gate operation begins. This simplifies the integration of quantum gates into parallel, synchronous, quantum circuits. In addition, we demonstrate the ability to fabricate such gates, and large-scale quantum circuits, using current e-beam lithography technology. These features make the SCB-based scheme a credible contender for practical quantum computer hardware.

id: quant-ph/0112026
title: Dynamics of Josephson junction systems in the computational subspace
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin, Matsumoto Keiji, Fan Heng, Y. Nakamura
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112026
abstract: The quantum dynamics of the Josephson junction system in the computational subspace is investigated. A scheme for the controlled not operation is given for two capasitively coupled SQUIDs. In this system, there is no systematic error for the two qubit operation. For the inductively coupled SQUIDs, the effective Hamiltonian causes systematic errors in the computational subspace for the two qubit operation. Using the purterbation theory, we construct a more precise effective Hamiltonian. This new effective Hamiltonian reduces the systematic error to the level much lower than the threshold of the fault resilent quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0112027
title: Dynamical effects of a one-dimensional multibarrier potential of finite range
authors: D. Bar, L. P. Horwitz
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. Jour. B, 25, 505-518, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112027
abstract: We discuss the properties of a large number N of one-dimensional (bounded) locally periodic potential barriers in a finite interval. We show that the transmission coefficient, the scattering cross section $\sigma$, and the resonances of $\sigma$ depend sensitively upon the ratio of the total spacing to the total barrier width. We also show that a time dependent wave packet passing through the system of potential barriers rapidly spreads and deforms, a criterion suggested by Zaslavsky for chaotic behaviour. Computing the spectrum by imposing (large) periodic boundary conditions we find a Wigner type distribution. We investigate also the S-matrix poles; many resonances occur for certain values of the relative spacing between the barriers in the potential.

id: quant-ph/0112028
title: Generalizations of Heisenberg uncertainty relation
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: latex, 7 pages, no figures. Dedicated to the 100 anniversary of W. Heisenberg (born Dec 5, 1901); v.2: some typos corrected. A short paragraph and one reference added. To appear in Eur. Phys. J
journal: Eur.Phys.J. B29 (2002) 349-353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112028
abstract: A survey on the generalizations of Heisenberg uncertainty relation and a general scheme for their entangled extensions to several states and observables is presented. The scheme is illustrated on the examples of one and two states and canonical quantum observables, and spin and quasi-spin components. Several new uncertainty relations are displayed. PACS 0365H, 4250D, 0220.

id: quant-ph/0112029
title: Tripartite Entanglement in a Bose Condensate by Stimulated Bragg Scattering
authors: B. Deb, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112029
abstract: We show that it is possible to entangle three different many-particle states by Bragg spectroscopy with nonclassical light in a Bose condensate of weakly interacting atomic gases. Among these three states, two are of atoms corresponding to two opposite momentum side-modes of the condensate; and the other is of single-mode photons of the output probe beam. We demonstrate strong dependence of the multiparticle entanglement on the quantum statistics of the probe light. We present detailed results on entanglement keeping in view of the possible experimental situation.

id: quant-ph/0112030
title: A random matrix approach to decoherence
authors: Thomas Gorin, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 11 pages, 5 eps-figures
journal: J. Opt. B 4, S386-S392 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112030
abstract: In order to analyze the effect of chaos or order on the rate of decoherence in a subsystem, we aim to distinguish effects of the two types of dynamics by choosing initial states as random product states from two factor spaces representing two subsystems. We introduce a random matrix model that permits to vary the coupling strength between the subsystems. The case of strong coupling is analyzed in detail, and we find no significant differences except for very low-dimensional spaces.

id: quant-ph/0112031
title: Implementation of quantum gates and preparation of entangled states in cavity QED with cold trapped ions
authors: Mang Feng, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: To appear in J. Opt. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112031
abstract: We propose a scheme to perform basic gates of quantum computing and prepare entangled states in a system with cold trapped ions located in a single mode optical cavity. General quantum computing can be made with both motional state of the trapped ion and cavity state being qubits. We can also generate different kinds of entangled states in such a system without state reduction, and can transfer quantum states from the ion in one trap to the ion in another trap. Experimental requirement for achieving our scheme is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112032
title: Darboux's Theorem and Quantisation
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX. Some refs. added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112032
abstract: It has been established that endowing classical phase space with a Riemannian metric is sufficient for describing quantum mechanics. In this letter we argue that, while sufficient, the above condition is certainly not necessary in passing from classical to quantum mechanics. Instead, our approach to quantum mechanics is modelled on a statement that closely resembles Darboux's theorem for symplectic manifolds.

id: quant-ph/0112033
title: Alpha and Electro-weak Coupling
authors: J. G. Gilson
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112033
abstract: It is shown that the fine structure constant alpha has the same value that "characterises" a relation, denoted by alpha_137(29*137), between a representation of the cyclic group of order 29*137 and the induced representation for the cyclic subgroup of order 137. The value of this characteristic is alpha_137(29*137) = 0.007297352532... . The complementary characteristic alpha_29(29*137)=0.034280626357... for the cyclic subgroup of order 29 is shown to represent the gauge theory electro-weak coupling quantity g^2/(4 pi). Kinematic aspects of the representation geometry are discussed and a generalized version of the Weinberg electro-weak mixing angle is introduced.

id: quant-ph/0112034
title: The power of entangled quantum channels
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112034
abstract: All communication channels are at bottom quantum mechanical. Quantum mechanics contributes both obstacles to communication in the form of noise, and opportunities in the use of intrinsically quantum representations for information. This paper investigates the trade-off between power and communication rate for coupled quantum channels. By exploiting quantum correlations such as entanglement, coupled quantum channels can communicate at a potentially higher rate than unentangled quantum channels given the same power. In particular, given the same overall power, M coupled, entangled quantum channels can send M bits in the same time it takes a single channel to send a single bit, and in the same time it takes M unentangled channels to send $\sqrt M$ bits.

id: quant-ph/0112035
title: A General SU(2) Formulation for Quantum Searching with Certainty
authors: Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Che-Ming Li
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Volume 65, 052322 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112035
abstract: A general quantum search algorithm with arbitrary unitary transformations and an arbitrary initial state is considered in this work. To serach a marked state with certainty, we have derived, using an SU(2) representation: (1) the matching condition relating the phase rotations in the algorithm, (2) a concise formula for evaluating the required number of iterations for the search, and (3) the final state after the search, with a phase angle in its amplitude of unity modulus. Moreover, the optimal choices and modifications of the phase angles in the Grover kernel is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0112036
title: Continuous variable quantum cloning via the Cavity QED with trapped ions
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112036
abstract: We present a feasible scheme to use trapped ions Cavity QED system to implement optimal $1\to N$ cloning machine of coherent state. In present scheme, as the ouput of the clone machine, the copies of the cavity mode emerge at the vibrational modes and cavity modes is acted as the ancilla mode in the implementation of the cloning. We further show that such system can be used to generated multimodes quantum state, which can realize optimum symmetric $1\to N$ telecloning of coherent state of distant cavity.

id: quant-ph/0112037
title: Probability Models and Ultralogics
authors: Robert A. Herrmann
comments: Plain Tex, 10 pages. In this version, it is shown how to modify Theorem 2.1 so that a *logic-system is produced. This *logic-system yields, in a step-by-step manner, the events E or E' in the appropriate order. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:physics/9903038
journal: Internat. J. Math & Math Sci., 27(5)(2001), 321-325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112037
abstract: In this paper, we show how nonstandard consequence operators, ultralogics, can generate the general informational content displayed by probability models. In particular, a probability model that predicts that a specific single event will occur and those models that predict that a specific distribution of events will occur.

id: quant-ph/0112038
title: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox and Entanglement 1: Signatures of EPR correlations for continuous variables
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 13 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112038
abstract: A generalization of the 1935 Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) argument for measurements with continuous variable outcomes is presented to establish criteria for the demonstration of the EPR paradox, for situations where the correlation between spatially separated subsystems is not perfect. Two types of criteria for EPR correlations are determined. The first type are based on measurements of the variances of conditional probability distributions and are necessary to reflect directly the situation of the original EPR paradox. The second weaker set of EPR criteria are based on the proven failure of (Bell-type) local realistic theories which could be consistent with a local quantum description for each subsystem. The relationship with criteria sufficient to prove entanglement is established, to show that any demonstration of EPR correlations will also signify entanglement. It is also shown how a demonstration of entanglement between two spatially separated subsystems, if not able to interpreted as a violation of a Bell-type inequality, may be interpreted as a demonstration of the EPR correlations. In particular it is explained how the experimental observation of two-mode squeezing using spatially separated detectors will signify not only entanglement but EPR correlations defined in a general sense.

id: quant-ph/0112039
title: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox and Entanglement 2: Application to Proof of Security for Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: M. D. Reid
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112039
abstract: In a previous paper certain measurable criteria have been derived, that are sufficient to demonstrate the existence of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlations for measurements with continuous variable outcomes. Here it is shown how such EPR criteria, which do not demand perfect EPR correlations, can be used to prove the extent of security for continuous variable quantum cryptographic schemes (in analogy to that proposed by Ekert) where Alice and Bob hope to construct a secure sequence of values from measurements performed on continuous-variable EPR-correlated fields sent from a distant source. It is proven that the demonstration of the EPR criterion on Alice's and Bob's joint statistics compels a necessary loss in the ability to infer the results shared by Alice and Bob, by measurements performed on any third channel potentially representing an eavesdropper (Eve). This result makes no assumption about the nature of the quantum source of the fields transmitted to Alice and Bob, except that the EPR correlations are observed at the final detector locations. In this way a means is provided to establish security in the presence of some loss and less than optimal correlation, and against any eavesdropping strategy employed by Eve prior to detection of the fields by Alice and Bob.

id: quant-ph/0112040
title: Polynomial Lie algebra methods in solving the second-harmonic generation model: some exact and approximate calculations
authors: V.P. Karassiov, A.A. Gusev, S.I. Vinitsky
comments: LaTex file, 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112040
abstract: We compare exact and SU(2)-cluster approximate calculation schemes to determine dynamics of the second-harmonic generation model using its reformulation in terms of a polynomial Lie algebra $su_{pd}(2)$ and related spectral representations of the model evolution operator realized in algorithmic forms. It enabled us to implement computer experiments exhibiting a satisfactory accuracy of the cluster approximations in a large range of characteristic model parameters.

id: quant-ph/0112041
title: Cold Trapped Ions as Quantum Information Processors
authors: Marek Sasura, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 44 revtex pages, 23 figures, to appear in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 49, 1593-1647 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112041
abstract: In this tutorial we review physical implementation of quantum computing using a system of cold trapped ions. We discuss systematically all the aspects for making the implementation possible. Firstly, we go through the loading and confining of atomic ions in the linear Paul trap, then we describe the collective vibrational motion of trapped ions. Further, we discuss interactions of the ions with a laser beam. We treat the interactions in the travelling-wave and standing-wave configuration for dipole and quadrupole transitions. We review different types of laser cooling techniques associated with trapped ions. We address Doppler cooling, sideband cooling in and beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit, sympathetic cooling and laser cooling using electromagnetically induced transparency. After that we discuss the problem of state detection using the electron shelving method. Then quantum gates are described. We introduce single-qubit rotations, two-qubit controlled-NOT and multi-qubit controlled-NOT gates. We also comment on more advanced multi-qubit logic gates. We describe how quantum logic networks may be used for the synthesis of arbitrary pure quantum states. Finally, we discuss the speed of quantum gates and we also give some numerical estimations for them. A discussion of dynamics on off-resonant transitions associated with a qualitative estimation of the weak coupling regime and of the Lamb-Dicke regime is included in Appendix.

id: quant-ph/0112042
title: Entanglement in the Dicke model
authors: S. Schneider, G.J. Milburn
comments: Minor changes: Reference added and references corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112042
abstract: We show how an ion trap, configured for the coherent manipulation of external and internal quantum states, can be used to simulate the irreversible dynamics of a collective angular momentum model known as the Dicke model. In the special case of two ions, we show that entanglement is created in the coherently driven steady state with linear driving. For the case of more than two ions we calculate the entanglement between two ions in the steady state of the Dicke model by tracing over all the other ions. The entanglement in the steady state is a maximum for the parameter values corresponding roughly to a bifurcation of a fixed point in the corresponding semiclassical dynamics. We conjecture that this is a general mechanism for entanglement creation in driven dissipative quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0112043
title: Finite Renormalization ll
authors: J. G. Gilson
comments: 13 pages changed page size
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112043
abstract: This paper is an updated version of the paper of similar title published in September 1998 {21} modified to take into account recent experimental results and recommendations from CODATA {19} and also to incorporate a correction. The original abstract follows and is still valid. A 1960's suggestion by R. P. Feynman, concerning the possibility of carrying out a "finite" renormalization procedure in quantum electrodynamics, is here implemented using a newly discovered "formula" for alpha, the fine structure constant.

id: quant-ph/0112044
title: A proposal of quantum logic gates using cold trapped ions in a cavity
authors: F.L. Semiao, A. Vidiella-Barranco, J.A. Roversi
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX, misprints corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 299, 423 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112044
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementation of logical gates in a trapped ion inside a high-Q cavity. The ion is simultaneously interacting with a (classical) laser field as well as with the (quantized) cavity field. We demonstrate that simply by tuning the ionic internal levels with the frequencies of the fields, it is possible to construct a controlled-NOT gate in a three step procedure, having the ion's internal as well as motional levels as qubits. The cavity field is used as an auxiliary qubit and basically remains in the vacuum state.

id: quant-ph/0112045
title: Suppression of decoherence in quantum registers by entanglement with a nonequilibrium environment
authors: S. Gheorghiu-Svirschevski
comments: RevTex3, 26 pgs., 2 figs.. This seriously expanded version accepted by Phys.Rev.A. No fundamentally new content, but rewritten introduction to problem, self-contained introduction of thermal coherent-product states in standard operator formalism, examples of zero-temperature decoherence free Davydov states. Also fixed a typo that propagated into an interpretational blunder in old Sec.3 [fortunately of no consequence]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112045
abstract: It is shown that a nonequilibrium environment can be instrumental in suppressing decoherence between distinct decoherence free subspaces in quantum registers. The effect is found in the framework of exact coherent-product solutions for model registers decohering in a bath of degenerate harmonic modes, through couplings linear in bath coordinates. These solutions represent a natural nonequilibrium extension of the standard solution for a decoupled initial register state and a thermal environment. Under appropriate conditions, the corresponding reduced register distribution can propagate in an unperturbed manner, even in the presence of entanglement between states belonging to distinct decoherence free subspaces, and despite persistent bath entanglement. As a byproduct, we also obtain a refined picture of coherence dynamics under bang-bang decoherence control. In particular, it is shown that each radio-frequency pulse in a typical bang-bang cycle induces a revival of coherence, and that these revivals are exploited in a natural way by the time-symmetrized version of the bang-bang protocol.

id: quant-ph/0112046
title: Maximal-entropy-production-rate nonlinear quantum dynamics compatible with second law, reciprocity, fluctuation-dissipation, and time-energy uncertainty relations
authors: Gian-Paolo Beretta
comments: RevTeX; 19 pages; submitted to Phys.Rev.A on Feb.9, 2001; revised version submitted on Sept.14, 2001 with slightly modified derivation in Section III, improved discussion on strong separability in Sections X and IX, added Eqs. 64b, 64c and 113
journal: G.P. Beretta, "Maximum entropy production rate in quantum thermodynamics", Journal of Physics: Conference Series, Vol. 237, 012004, 1-32 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112046
abstract: In view of the recent quest for well-behaved nonlinear extensions of the traditional Schroedinger-von Neumann unitary dynamics that could provide fundamental explanations of recent experimental evidence of loss of quantum coherence at the microscopic level, in this paper, together with a review of the general features of the nonlinear quantum (thermo)dynamics I proposed in a series of papers [see references in G.P. Beretta, Found.Phys. 17, 365 (1987)], I show its exact equivalence with the maximal-entropy-production variational-principle formulation recently derived in S. Gheorghiu-Svirschevski, Phys.Rev. A 63, 022105 (2001). In addition, based on the formalism of general interest I developed for the analysis of composite systems, I show how the variational derivation can be extended to the case of a composite system to obtain the general form of my equation of motion, that turns out to be consistent with the demanding requirements of strong separability. Moreover, I propose a new intriguing fundamental ansatz: that the time evolution along the direction of steepest entropy ascent unfolds at the fastest rate compatible with the time-energy Heisenberg uncertainty relation. This ansatz provides a possible well-behaved general closure of the nonlinear dynamics, compatible with the nontrivial requirements of strong separability, and with no need of new physical constants. In any case, the time-energy uncertainty relation provides lower bounds to the internal-relaxation-time functionals and, therefore, upper bounds to the rate of entropy production.

id: quant-ph/0112047
title: Stochastic Simulation of The Three Dimensional Quantum Vacuum
authors: J. G. Gilson
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112047
abstract: A complete solution to the long standing problem of basing Schroedinger quantum theory on standard stochastic theory is given. The solution covers all "single" particle three-dimensional Schroedinger theory linear or nonlinear and with any external potential present. The system is classical, set in a six-dimensional space and involves vacuum polarization as the background process. Basic vacuum polarization energy characterised oscillators are identified and then in assemblies are analysed in terms of energy occurrence frequencies. The orbits of polarization monopoles are given and shown to be elliptical on subspaces surfaces. The basic process takes place at the speed of light and is of a statistical "zitterbewegung" character. The orthodox quantum probability density bilinear quadratic form is derived from angular momentum consideration within the system which is shown to be a generalisation of the usual quantum structure. Two statistical assemblies are identified, a linear one associated with superposition of eigenfunctions and a quadratic one associated with interactions between eigenstates. It is suggested that this two-tier probabilistic system will remove some possible paradoxes that plague the orthodox thoory. The relation of vacuum polarization in this work with its occurrence in other physical contexts and a connection with "spin" is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112048
title: A Quantum Coupling Conjecture
authors: J. G. Gilson
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112048
abstract: Following the successful prediction of an exact value for the fine structure constant later confirmed to differ numerically from the centre value of the latest experimental recommended CODATA range by 10^{-12}, further analysis and predictions of exact values for two other quantum coupling constants, the strong and the electroweak, are given. The method employed to obtain these theoretical values depends on the conjecture that measured values of a fundamental set of quantum coupling constants approximate to exact values that can be found in a specific set C_Q of numerical values which has a countable number of elements. The letter C and its subscript Q stand for coupling and quantum respectively. A full definition of this set are given in the body of this paper. Questions of how this conjecture might be validated from the theoretical and measurement point of view and the identification of those elements of C_Q which have values of definite physical significance constitute the subject matter of this paper.

id: quant-ph/0112049
title: Statistical Origin of Quantum Mechanics
authors: G. Kaniadakis
comments: Accepted for publication in Physica A
journal: Physica A 307, 172 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112049
abstract: The one particle quantum mechanics is considered in the frame of a N-body classical kinetics in the phase space. Within this framework, the scenario of a subquantum structure for the quantum particle, emerges naturally, providing an ontological support to the orthodox quantum mechanics. This approach to quantum mechanics, constitutes a deductive and direct method which, in a self-consistent scheme of a classical kinetics, allows us: i) to obtain the probabilistic nature of the quantum description and to interpret the wave function $\psi$ according to the Copenhagen school; ii) to derive the quantum potential and then the Schr\"odinger equation; iii) to calculate the values of the physical observables as mean values of the associated quantum operators; iv) to obtain the Heisenberg uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0112050
title: Entanglement Swapping of Generalized Cat States and Secret Sharing
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Saber Bagherinezhad, Alireza Bahraminasab
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, REVTEX
journal: Physical Review A 65, 042320 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112050
abstract: We introduce generalized cat states for d-level systems and obtain concise formulas for their entanglement swapping with generalized Bell states. We then use this to provide both a generalization to the d-level case and a transparent proof of validity for an already proposed protocol of secret sharing based on entanglement swapping

id: quant-ph/0112051
title: Optimal unambiguous discrimination between subsets of non-orthogonal quantum states
authors: Yuqing Sun, Janos A. Bergou, Mark Hillery
comments: 10 pages, changes in section 2, replaced with published version, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112051
abstract: It is known that unambiguous discrimination among non-orthogonal but linearly independent quantum states is possible with a certain probability of success. Here, we consider a variant of that problem. Instead of discriminating among all of the different states, we shall only discriminate between two subsets of them. In particular, for the case of three non-orthogonal states, we show that the optimal strategy to distinguish between a set containing one of the states from the set containing the other two has a higher success rate than if we wish to discriminate among all three states. Somewhat surprisingly, for unambiguous discrimination the subsets need not be linearly independent. A fully analytical solution is presented, and we also show how to construct generalized interferometers (multiports) that provide an optical implementation of the optimal strategy.

id: quant-ph/0112052
title: Non-Newtonian Mechanics
authors: Giovanni Salesi
comments: LaTeX; 27 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A17:347-374,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112052
abstract: The classical motion of spinning particles can be described without employing Grassmann variables or Clifford algebras, but simply by generalizing the usual spinless theory. We only assume the invariance with respect to the Poincare' group; and only requiring the conservation of the linear and angular momenta we derive the zitterbewegung: namely the decomposition of the 4-velocity in the newtonian constant term p/m and in a non-newtonian time-oscillating spacelike term. Consequently, free classical particles do not obey, in general, the Principle of Inertia. Superluminal motions are also allowed, without violating Special Relativity, provided that the energy-momentum moves along the worldline of the center-of-mass. Moreover, a non-linear, non-constant relation holds between the time durations measured in different reference frames. Newtonian Mechanics is re-obtained as a particular case of the present theory: namely for spinless systems with no zitterbewegung. Introducing a Lagrangian containing also derivatives of the 4-velocity we get a new equation of the motion, actually a generalization of the Newton Law a=F/m. Requiring the rotational symmetry and the reparametrization invariance we derive the classical spin vector and the conserved scalar Hamiltonian, respectively. We derive also the classical Dirac spin and analyze the general solution of the Eulero-Lagrange equation for Dirac particles. The interesting case of spinning systems with zero intrinsic angular momentum is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0112053
title: Quantum oscillations without quantum coherence
authors: V. V. Dobrovitski, H. A. De Raedt, M. I. Katsnelson, B. N. Harmon
comments: RevTeX, 4 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112053
abstract: We study numerically the damping of quantum oscillations and the increase of entropy with time in model spin systems decohered by a spin bath. In some experimentally relevant cases, the oscillations of considerable amplitude can persist long after the entropy has saturated near its maximum, i.e. when the system has been decohered almost completely. Therefore, the pointer states of the system demonstrate non-trivial dynamics. The oscillations exhibit slow power-law decay, rather than exponential or Gaussian, and may be observable in experiments.

id: quant-ph/0112054
title: Combined encoding and decoupling solution to problems of decoherence and design in solid-state quantum computing
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, Revtex4, updated, shortened version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 047901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112054
abstract: Proposals for scalable quantum computing devices suffer not only from decoherence due to the interaction with their environment, but also from severe engineering constraints. Here we introduce a practical solution to these major concerns, addressing solid state proposals in particular. Decoherence is first reduced by encoding a logical qubit into two qubits, then completely eliminated by an efficient set of decoupling pulse sequences. The same encoding removes the need for single-qubit operations, that pose a difficult design constraint. We further show how the dominant decoherence processes can be identified empirically, in order to optimize the decoupling pulses.

id: quant-ph/0112055
title: A Refinement of Shor's Algorithm
authors: David McAnally
comments: 45 pages v.2: Change to acknowledgements v.3: Abstract and first paragraph of introduction rewritten v.4: Typographical errors fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112055
abstract: A refinement of Shor's Algorithm for determining order is introduced, which determines a divisor of the order after any one run of a quantum computer with almost absolute certainty. The information garnered from each run is accumulated to determine the order, and for any k greater than 1, there is a guaranteed minimum positive probability that the order will be determined after at most k runs. The probability of determination of the order after at most k runs exponentially approaches a value negligibly less than one, so that the accumulated information determines the order with almost absolute certainty. The probability of determining the order after at most two runs is more than 60%, and the probability of determining the order after at most four runs is more than 90%.

id: quant-ph/0112056
title: Fluctuations of the Retarded Van der Waals Force
authors: Chun-Hsien Wu, Chung-I Kuo, L. H. Ford
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A65 (2002) 062102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112056
abstract: The retarded Van der Waals force between a polarizable particle and a perfectly conducting plate is re-examined. The expression for this force given by Casimir and Polder represents a mean force, but there are large fluctuations around this mean value on short time scales which are of the same order of magnitude as the mean force itself. However, these fluctuations occur on time scales which are typically of the order of the light travel time between the atom and the plate. As a consequence, they will not be observed in an experiment which measures the force averaged over a much longer time. In the large time limit, the magnitude of the mean squared velocity of a test particle due to this fluctuating Van der Waals force approaches a constant, and is similar to a Brownian motion of a test particle in an thermal bath with an effective temperature. However the fluctuations are not isotropic in this case, and the shift in the mean square velocity components can even be negative. We interpret this negative shift to correspond to a reduction in the velocity spread of a wavepacket. The force fluctuations discussed in this paper are special case of the more general problem of stress tensor fluctuations. These are of interest in a variety of areas fo physics, including gravity theory. Thus the effects of Van der Waals force fluctuations serve as a useful model for better understanding quantum effects in gravity theory.

id: quant-ph/0112057
title: Quantum computation with trapped ions in strongly detuned optical cavity
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112057
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement quantum phase gate for two $\Lambda$ ions trapped in optical cavity. It is shown that quantum phase gate can be implemented by applying a laser addressing to a single ions in strongly detuned optical cavity. We further demonstrate that geometric quantum phase gate can be implemented by introducing a auxiliary ground state.

id: quant-ph/0112058
title: Temporal Oscillations of Nonlinear Faraday Rotation in Coherently Driven Media
authors: Malakyan Yu.P
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112058
abstract: New phenomenon of temporal oscillations of nonlinear Faraday rotation in a driven four-level system is predicted. We show that in this system with one upper level, under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency created by a strong coupling field, the polarization rotation of weak probe light exhibits slowly damped oscillations with a frequency proportional to the strength of an applied magnetic field. This opens up an alternate way to sensitive magnetometric measurements. Applications in low-light nonlinear optics such as photon entanglement are feasible.

id: quant-ph/0112059
title: Stoppage of Light Made Flexible by an Additional Control Field
authors: G.S.Agarwal, Tarak Nath Dey
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, typed in Latex, Accepted in JMO
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 50, Number 9 / 15, Pages 1469 - 1476 June 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112059
abstract: We show how the application of a coupling field connecting the two lower metastable states of a Lambda system facilitates stoppage of light in a coheren tly driven Doppler broadened atomic medium via electromagnetic induced transparency

id: quant-ph/0112060
title: Sensitivity of Quantum Motion for Classically Chaotic Systems
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: revtex, 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 65, 066205 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112060
abstract: We discuss the behavior of fidelity for a classically chaotic quantum system in the metallic regime. We show the existence of a critical value of the perturbation below which the exponential decay of fidelity is determined by the width of the Breit-Wigner distribution and above which the quantum decay follows the classical one which is ruled by the Lyapunov exponent. The independence of the decay {\it rate} from the perturbation strength derives from the similarity of the quantum and classical relaxation process inside the Heisenberg time scale.

id: quant-ph/0112061
title: Bogoliubov transformations and exact isolated solutions for simple non-adiabatic Hamiltonians
authors: C. Emary, R.F. Bishop
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages, 1 figure. Minor additions and journal ref
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43, 3916 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112061
abstract: We present a new method for finding isolated exact solutions of a class of non-adiabatic Hamiltonians of relevance to quantum optics and allied areas. Central to our approach is the use of Bogoliubov transformations of the bosonic fields in the models. We demonstrate the simplicity and efficiency of this method by applying it to the Rabi Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0112062
title: Continuous-variable Werner state: separability, nonlocality, squeezing and teleportation
authors: Ladislav Mista Jr., Radim Filip, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062315 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112062
abstract: We investigate the separability, nonlocality and squeezing of continuous-variable analogue of the Werner state: a mixture of pure two-mode squeezed vacuum state with local thermal radiations. Utilizing this Werner state, coherent-state teleportation in Braunstein-Kimble setup is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112063
title: A generalization of the Fenyes-Nelson stochastic model of quantum mechanics
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 7 pages
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics Vol. 3, 271-277 (1979)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112063
abstract: It is shown that the stochastic model of Fenyes and Nelson can be generalized in such a way that the diffusion constant of the Markov theory becomes a free parameter. This extra freedom allows one to identify quantum mechanics with a class of Markov processes with diffusion constants varying from zero to infinity.

id: quant-ph/0112064
title: On the quantification of entanglement in infinite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Jens Eisert, Christoph Simon, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 15 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A 35, 3911 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112064
abstract: We investigate entanglement measures in the infinite-dimensional regime. First, we discuss the peculiarities that may occur if the Hilbert space of a bi-partite system is infinite-dimensional, most notably the fact that the set of states with infinite entropy of entanglement is trace-norm dense in state space, implying that in any neighborhood of every product state there lies an arbitrarily strongly entangled state. The starting point for a clarification of this counterintuitive property is the observation that if one imposes the natural and physically reasonable constraint that the mean energy is bounded from above, then the entropy of entanglement becomes a trace-norm continuous functional. The considerations will then be extended to the asymptotic limit, and we will prove some asymptotic continuity properties. We proceed by investigating the entanglement of formation and the relative entropy of entanglement in the infinite-dimensional setting. Finally, we show that the set of entangled states is still trace-norm dense in state space, even under the constraint of a finite mean energy.

id: quant-ph/0112065
title: Demonstration of the Complementarity of One- and Two-Photon Interference
authors: A. F. Abouraddy, M. B. Nasr, B. E. A. Saleh, A. V. Sergienko, M. C. Teich
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 63, 063803 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112065
abstract: The visibilities of second-order (single-photon) and fourth-order (two-photon) interference have been observed in a Young's double-slit experiment using light generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion and a photon-counting intensified CCD camera. Coherence and entanglement underlie one-and two-photon interference, respectively. As the effective source size is increased, coherence is diminished while entanglement is enhanced, so that the visibility of single-photon interference decreases while that of two-photon interference increases. This is the first experimental demonstration of the complementarity between single- and two-photon interference (coherence and entanglement) in the spatial domain.

id: quant-ph/0112066
title: A Balanced Truncation Primer
authors: Benjamin Rahn
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112066
abstract: Balanced truncation, a technique from robust control theory, is a systematic method for producing simple approximate models of complex linear systems. This technique may have significant applications in physics, particularly in the study of large classical and quantum systems. These notes summarize the concepts and results necessary to apply balanced truncation.

id: quant-ph/0112067
title: On the physical meaning of the EPR--chameleon experiment
authors: Luigi Accardi, Kentaro Imafuku, Massimo Regoli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112067
abstract: The physical meaning of the EPR--chameleon experiment proposed in AcRe00b,AcRe01a, in which the EPR correlations are reproduced by local, independent, deterministic choices is re-examined. In addition we extend the mathematical model of AcRe00b,AcRe01a by showing that the dynamics considered there is effectively the reduced dynamics of a fully reversible evolution. We also propose a new protocol, more directly corresponding to real experiments, in which the local computers only send back to the central one the results of the evaluation of $\pm1$--valued functions. The program to run the experiment is available from the WEB-page: this http URL

id: quant-ph/0112068
title: Range Theorems for Quantum Probability and Entanglement
authors: I. Pitowsky
comments: 8 pages, contribution to proceedings of the conference "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations", Vaxjo, July 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112068
abstract: We consider the set of all matrices of the form $p_{ij}=tr[W(E_{i}\otimes F_{j})]$ where $E_{i}$, $F_{j}$ are projections on a Hilbert space $H$, and $W$ is some state on $H\otimes H$. We derive the basic properties of this set, compare it with the classical range of probability, and note how its properties may be related to geometric measures of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0112069
title: Geometrical Aspects of Lie Groups Representations and Their Optical Applications
authors: J. Guerrero, V. I. Manko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni
comments: Latex,31 pages, submitted to Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112069
abstract: In this paper we present a new procedure to obtain unitary and irreducible representations of Lie groups starting from the cotangent bundle of the group (the cotangent group). We discuss some applications of the construction in quantum-optics problems.

id: quant-ph/0112070
title: Quantum field theory and dense measurement
authors: D. Bar
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, Section 4 has been removed
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.42:443-463,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112070
abstract: We show, using quantum field theory, that performing a large number of identical repetitions of the same measurement does not only preserve the initial state of the wave function (the Zeno effect), but also produces additional physical effects. We first demonstrate that a Zeno type effect can emerges also in the framework of quantum field theory, that is, as a quantum field phenomenon. We also derive a Zeno type effect from quantum field theory for the general case in which the initial and final states are different. The basic physical entities dealt with in this work are not the conventional once-perfomed physical processes, but their $n$ times repetition where $n$ tends to infinity. We show that the presence of these repetitions entails the presence of additional excited state energies, and the absence of them entails the absence of these excited energies. We also show that in the presence of these repetitions the Schroedinger equation may be derived from the functional generalization of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0112071
title: A simple way to detect the state transition caused by the nondiagonal abelian Berry phase
authors: X. B. Wang, K. Matsumoto, H. Fan, A. Tomita, J.W. Pan
comments: The evolution of a non-commutative matrix is obtained through the operation in the zero eigenvalue space
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112071
abstract: In a nondegenerate syste, the abelian Berry's phase will never cause transitions among the Hamiltonian's eigenstate. However, in a degenerate syatem, it is well known that the state transition can be caused by the non-abelian Berry phase. Actually, in a such a system, the phase factor is not always nonabelian. Even in the case that the phase is a nondiagonal matrix, it still can be an abelian phase and can cause the state transitions. We then propose a simple scheme to detect such an effect of the Berry phase to the degenerate states by using the optical entangled pair state. In this scheme, we need not control any external parameters during the quantum state evolution.

id: quant-ph/0112072
title: Vacuum Squeezing in Atomic Media via Self-Rotation
authors: A.B. Matsko, I. Novikova, G.R. Welch, D. Budker, D.F. Kimball, S.M. Rochester
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; Submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A v.66, 043815 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112072
abstract: When linearly polarized light propagates through a medium in which elliptically polarized light would undergo self-rotation, squeezed vacuum can appear in the orthogonal polarization. A simple relationship between self-rotation and the degree of vacuum squeezing is developed. Taking into account absorption, we find the optimum conditions for squeezing in any medium that can produce self-rotation. We then find analytic expressions for the amount of vacuum squeezing produced by an atomic vapor when light is near-resonant with a transition between various low-angular-momentum states. Finally, we consider a gas of multi-level Rb atoms, and analyze squeezing for light tuned near the D-lines under realistic conditions.

id: quant-ph/0112073
title: Universal Quantum Estimator
authors: Artur K. Ekert, Carolina Moura Alves, Daniel K. L. Oi, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, L. C. Kwek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112073
abstract: We present a simple device based on the controlled-SWAP gate that performs quantum state tomography. It can also be used to determine maximum and minimum eigenvalues, expectation values of arbitrary observables, purity estimation as well as characterizing quantum channels. The advantage of this scheme is that the architecture is fixed and the task performed is determined by the input data.

id: quant-ph/0112074
title: A Thermodynamical Approach to Quantifying Quantum Correlations
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, Revtex4, title changed, caveat added to theorem
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 180402 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112074
abstract: We consider the amount of work which can be extracted from a heat bath using a bipartite state shared by two parties. In general it is less then the amount of work extractable when one party is in possession of the entire state. We derive bounds for this "work deficit" and calculate it explicitly for a number of different cases. For pure states the work deficit is exactly equal to the distillable entanglement of the state, and this is also achievable for maximally correlated states. In these cases a form of complementarity exists between physical work which can be extracted and distillable entanglement. The work deficit is a good measure of the quantum correlations in a state and provides a new paradigm for understanding quantum non-locality.

id: quant-ph/0112075
title: Information and Distinguishability of Ensembles of Identical Quantum States
authors: Lev B. Levitin, Tommaso Toffoli, Zac D. Walton
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, IQSA 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112075
abstract: We consider a fixed quantum measurement performed over $n$ identical copies of quantum states. Using a rigorous notion of distinguishability We consider a fixed quantum measurement performed over $n$ identical copies of quantum states. Using a rigorous notion of distinguishability based on Shannon's 12th theorem, we show that in the case of a single qubit the number of distinguishable states is $W(\alpha_1,\alpha_2,n)=|\alpha_1-\alpha_2|\sqrt{\frac{2n}{\pi e}}$, where $(\alpha_1,\alpha_2)$ is the angle interval from which the states are chosen. In the general case of an $N$-dimensional Hilbert space and an area $\Omega$ of the domain on the unit sphere from which the states are chosen, the number of distinguishable states is $W(N,n,\Omega)=\Omega(\frac{2n}{\pi e})^{\frac{N-1}{2}}$. The optimal distribution is uniform over the domain in Cartesian coordinates.based on Shannon's 12th theorem, we show that in the case of a single qubit the number of distinguishable states is $W(\alpha_1,\alpha_2,n)=|\alpha_1-\alpha_2|\sqrt{\frac{2n}{\pi e}}$, where $(\alpha_1,\alpha_2)$ is the angle interval from which the states are chosen. In the general case of an $N$-dimensional Hilbert space and an area $\Omega$ of the domain on the unit sphere from which the states are chosen, the number of distinguishable states is $W(N,n,\Omega)=\Omega(\frac{2n}{\pi e})^{\frac{N-1}{2}}$. The optimal distribution is uniform over the domain in Cartesian coordinates.

id: quant-ph/0112076
title: Stochastic quantization of the linearized gravitational field
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 14 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.23:132-137,1982
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112076
abstract: Stochastic field equations for linearized gravity are presented. The theory is compared with the usual quantum field theory and questions of Lorentz covariance are discussed. The classical radiation approximation is also presented.

id: quant-ph/0112077
title: Probability and Nonlocality in Many Minds Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. Hemmo, I. Pitowsky
comments: 22 pages, last section rewritten, to appear in British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112077
abstract: We argue that a certain type of many minds (and many worlds) interpretations of quantum mechanics due to Lockwood (and Deutsch) do not provide a coherent interpretation of the quantum mechanical probabilistic algorithm. By contrast, in Albert and Loewer's version of the many minds interpretation there is a coherent interpretation of the quantum mechanical probabilities. We consider Albert and Loewer's probability interpretation in the context of Bell-type and GHZ-type states and argue that it exhibits a certain form of nonlocality which is, however, much weaker than Bell's nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0112078
title: Interference of spontaneously emitted photons
authors: Almut Beige, Christian Schoen, Jiannis Pachos
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, contribution to the symposium "100 Years of Werner Heisenberg - Works and Impact" in Bamberg, to appear in Fortschritte der Physik
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 50, 594 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112078
abstract: We discuss an experimental setup where two laser-driven atoms spontaneously emit photons and every photon causes a ``click'' at a point on a screen. By deriving the probability density for an emission into a certain direction from basic quantum mechanical principles we predict a spatial interference pattern. Similarities and differences with the classical double-slit experiment are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112079
title: Quantum cryptographic ranging
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure. Contribution to the proceedings of the IV edition of the Garda Lake Workshop "Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics"
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 4, S413, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112079
abstract: We present a system to measure the distance between two parties that allows only trusted people to access the result. The security of the protocol is guaranteed by the complementarity principle in quantum mechanics. The protocol can be realized with available technology, at least as a proof of principle experiment.

id: quant-ph/0112080
title: Liouville invariance in quantum and classical mechanics
authors: Alec Maassen van den Brink, A.M. Zagoskin
comments: REVTeX 4, 14 p.; 1 built-in + 1 PS figure; N.B. `Alec' is my first name, `Maassen van den Brink' my family name; Pls delete the `2000' postfix to `amsmath' on l. 2 of the ms file, it's for arXiv/LANL only; v2: main text subdivided into sections, small textual changes for clarity; v3: published version with reordered sections, and figure + historical refs added
journal: Quantum Information Processing_1_, 55 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112080
abstract: The density-matrix and Heisenberg formulations of quantum mechanics follow--for unitary evolution--directy from the Schr"odinger equation. Nevertheless, the symmetries of the corresponding evolution operator, the Liouvillian L=i[.,H], need not be limited to those of the Hamiltonian H. This is due to L only involving eigenenergy_differences_, which can be degenerate even if the energies themselves are not. Remarkably, this possibility has rarely been mentioned in the literature, and never pursued more generally. We consider an example involving mesoscopic Josephson devices, but the analysis only assumes familiarity with basic quantum mechanics. Subsequently, such _L-symmetries_ are shown to occur more widely, in particular also in classical mechanics. The symmetry's relevance to dissipative systems and quantum-information processing is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112081
title: Space-Time and Probability
authors: Simon Saunders
comments: 
journal: Space-Time and Probability', 8 pp., in Chance in Physics: Foundations and Perspectives, J. Bricmont, D. Durr, M.C. Galavotti, G. Ghirardi, F. Petruccione, N. Zanghi (eds.), Springer-Verlag (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112081
abstract: Special relativity is most naturally formulated as a theory of space-time geometry, but within the space-time framework probability apears to be at best an epistemic notion - a matter of what can be known, not of the status of events in themselves. However, a non-epistemic account of probability can be given in Minkowski space-time, in terms of the Everett interpretation. We work throughout in the consistent histories formalism, first in tems of a single history, and then using many

id: quant-ph/0112082
title: Role of interference and entanglement in quantum neural processing
authors: A.A. Ezhov
comments: 15 pages, PDF
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112082
abstract: The role of interference and entanglement in quantum neural processing is discussed. It is argued that on contrast to the quantum computing the problem of the use of exponential resources as the payment for the absense of entanglement does not exist for quantum neural processing. This is because of corresponding systems, as any modern classical artificial neural systems, do not realize functions precisely, but approximate them by training on small sets of examples. It can permit to implement quantum neural systems optically, because in this case there is no need in exponential resources of optical devices (beam-splitters etc.). On the other hand, the role of entanglement in quantum neural processing is still very important, because it actually associates qubit states: this is necessary feature of quantum neural memory models.

id: quant-ph/0112083
title: Geometric quantization of completely integrable Hamiltonian systems in the action-angle variables
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112083
abstract: We provide geometric quantization of a completely integrable Hamiltonian system in the action-angle variables around an invariant torus with respect to polarization spanned by almost-Hamiltonian vector fields of angle variables. The associated quantum algebra consists of functions affine in action coordinates. We obtain a set of its nonequivalent representations in the separable pre-Hilbert space of smooth complex functions on the torus where action operators and a Hamiltonian are diagonal and have countable spectra.

id: quant-ph/0112084
title: Sympathetic Cooling of Trapped Cd+ Isotopes
authors: B.B. Blinov, L. Deslauriers, P. Lee, M.J. Madsen, R. Miller, C. Monroe
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 040304(R) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112084
abstract: We sympathetically cool a trapped 112Cd+ ion by directly Doppler-cooling a 114Cd+ ion in the same trap. This is the first demonstration of optically addressing a single trapped ion being sympathetically cooled by a different species ion. Notably, the experiment uses a single laser source, and does not require strong focusing. This paves the way toward reducing decoherence in an ion trap quantum computer based on Cd+ isotopes.

id: quant-ph/0112085
title: Intense laser interacting with a two level atom: WKB expressions for dipole transitions and population inversion
authors: J. D. Lejarreta, J. M. Cervero
comments: 11 pages, LaTex2e, no figures. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters 293A, 1-9 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112085
abstract: In a previous paper, we have already considered the system composed by a two level atom interacting with a coherent external electromagnetic field. No application whatsoever has been made of the rotating wave approximation. Being specially interested in the problem of higher harmonic generations for the case of very intense laser fields, we have developed in this letter a much more efficient way to obtain these solutions as well as to carry out some calculations in a range in which the parameters take extreme values. Also the formalism allows us now to provide analytic expressions in the WKB regime for the electric dipole moment and the population inversion. The spectrum can be decomposed in periodic and non-periodic contributions. Only the latter depends upon the Floquet exponent and can be responsible of the main complexities of the observed Rabi revivals and the hyper-Raman shift.

id: quant-ph/0112086
title: Quantum lower bounds for the collision and the element distinctness problems
authors: Yaoyun Shi
comments: LaTex, 13 pages
journal: Proceedings of The 43rd Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, 513 - 519, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112086
abstract: Given a function f as an oracle, the collision problem is to find two distinct inputs i and j such that f(i)=f(j), under the promise that such inputs exist. Since the security of many fundamental cryptographic primitives depends on the hardness of finding collisions, quantum lower bounds for the collision problem would provide evidence for the existence of cryptographic primitives that are immune to quantum cryptanalysis. In this paper, we prove that any quantum algorithm for finding a collision in an r-to-one function must evaluate the function Omega((n/r)^{1/3}) times, where n is the size of the domain and r|n. This improves the previous best lower bound of Omega((n/r)^{1/5}) evaluations due to Aaronson [quant-ph/0111102], and is tight up to a constant factor. Our result also implies a quantum lower bound of Omega(n^{2/3}) queries to the inputs for the element distinctness problem, which is to determine whether or not the given n real numbers are distinct. The previous best lower bound is Omega(sqrt{n}} queries in the black-box model; and Omega(sqrt{n}log{n}) comparisons in the comparisons-only model, due to H{\o}yer, Neerbek, and Shi [ICALP'01, quant-ph/0102078].

id: quant-ph/0112087
title: Coins, Quantum Measurements, and Turing's Barrier
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Boris Pavlov
comments: 23 pages to appear in "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 1, 1--2 (2002), 107--127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112087
abstract: Is there any hope for quantum computing to challenge the Turing barrier, i.e. to solve an undecidable problem, to compute an uncomputable function? According to Feynman's '82 argument, the answer is {\it negative}. This paper re-opens the case: we will discuss solutions to a few simple problems which suggest that {\it quantum computing is {\it theoretically} capable of computing uncomputable functions}. In this paper a mathematical quantum "device" (with sensitivity $\epsilon$) is constructed to solve the Halting Problem. The "device" works on a randomly chosen test-vector for $T$ units of time. If the "device" produces a click, then the program halts. If it does not produce a click, then either the program does not halt or the test-vector has been chosen from an {\it undistinguishable set of vectors} ${\IF}_{\epsilon, T}$. The last case is not dangerous as our main result proves: {\it the Wiener measure of} ${\IF}_{\epsilon, T}$ {\it constructively tends to zero when} $T$ {\it tends to infinity}. The "device", working in time $T$, appropriately computed, will determine with a pre-established precision whether an arbitrary program halts or not. {\it Building the "halting machine" is mathematically possible.}

id: quant-ph/0112088
title: Linear Optical CNOT Gate in the Coincidence Basis
authors: T. C. Ralph, N. K. Langford, T. B. Bell, A. G. White
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 65, 062324 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112088
abstract: We describe the operation and tolerances of a non-deterministic, coincidence basis, quantum CNOT gate for photonic qubits. It is constructed solely from linear optical elements and requires only a two-photon source for its demonstration.

id: quant-ph/0112089
title: The Wave Theory of the Field
authors: Walter E. R. Cassani
comments: Simulation of the particle wave structure is available at: this http URL (To turn the spherical structure click < r >) waltercassani@tiscalinet.it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112089
abstract: As a substitute for the current hypothesis of space-time continuity, we show the nature and the characteristics of a Schild's discrete space-time. With the wave perturbations of its metrical structure we formulate the working hypothesis that all subatomic particles are elementary sources of spherical waves constituting on the whole the mass fields, the electromagnetic and the nuclear field we attribute to the particles. The explicative effectiveness of the new wave unification between quantum mechanics and general relativity is shown by a wave interpretation of three experimental phenomena that lie different physics: astrophysics, optics and quantum physics. A further use of wave Compton effect leads us to discover a mechanism of wave resonance which is able to verify the possible existence of a source of elementary waves that shows a wave model of electron and all the particles. The wave nature of masses and the generalized effect of a Relative Symmetry Principle leads us to consider the inertia as a local consequence of the wave structure of bodies. The same changeable wave model used for explaining inertia it is also valid to show a quantized gravitational interaction and the wave nature of gravity.

id: quant-ph/0112090
title: Introduction to Coherent States and Quantum Information Theory
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex file, 72 pages. This is a review article based on my talks given at several universities in Japan and I am preparing this for the forthcoming 10th Numazu Meeting. I made some changes to become more instructive
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112090
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to introduce several basic theorems of coherent states and generalized coherent states based on Lie algebras su(2) and su(1,1), and to give some applications of them to quantum information theory for graduate students or non--experts who are interested in both Geometry and Quantum Information Theory. In the first half we make a general review of coherent states and generalized coherent states based on Lie algebras su(2) and su(1,1) from the geometric point of view and, in particular, prove that each resolution of unity can be obtained by the curvature form of some bundle on the parameter space. In the latter half we apply a method of generalized coherent states to some important topics in Quantum Information Theory, in particular, swap of coherent states and cloning of coherent ones. We construct the swap operator of coherent states by making use of a generalized coherent operator based on su(2) and show an "imperfect cloning" of coherent states, and moreover present some related problems. In conclusion we state our dream, namely, a construction of {\bf Geometric Quantum Information Theory}.

id: quant-ph/0112091
title: Anderson's absolute objects and constant timelike vector hidden in Dirac matrices
authors: Yuri A. Rylov
comments: 10 pages 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112091
abstract: Anderson's theorem asserting, that symmetry of dynamic equations written in the relativisitically covariant form is determined by symmetry of its absolute objects, is applied to the free Dirac equation. Dirac matrices are the only absolute objects of the Dirac equation. There are two ways of the Dirac matrices transformation: (1) Dirac matrices form a 4-vector and wave function is a scalar, (2) Dirac matrices are scalars and the wave function is a spinor. In the first case the Dirac equation is nonrelativistic, in the second one it is relativistic. Transforming Dirac equation to another scalar-vector variables, one shows that the first way of transformation is valid, and the Dirac equation is not relativistic

id: quant-ph/0112092
title: Destruction of states in quantum mechanics
authors: P. Caban, J. Rembielinski, K. A. Smolinski, Z. Walczak
comments: 14 pp, 1 eps figure, LaTeX2e using iopart class. Final version, will be published in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) 3265-3278
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112092
abstract: A description of destruction of states on the grounds of quantum mechanics rather than quantum field theory is proposed. Several kinds of maps called supertraces are defined and used to describe the destruction procedure. The introduced algorithm can be treated as a supplement to the von Neumann-Lueders measurement. The discussed formalism may be helpful in a description of EPR type experiments and in quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0112093
title: Delay-dependent amplification of a probe pulse via stimulated Rayleigh scattering
authors: M.V. Fedorov, S.V. Popruzhenko, D.F. Zaretsky, W. Becker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112093
abstract: Stimulated Rayleigh scattering of pump and probe light pulses of close carrier frequencies is considered. A nonzero time delay between the two pulses is shown to give rise to amplification of the delayed (probe) pulse accompanied by attenuation of the pump, both on resonance and off resonance. In either case, phase-matching effects are shown to provide a sufficiently large gain, which can exceed significantly direct one-photon-absorption losses.

id: quant-ph/0112094
title: Cloning of symmetric d-level photonic states in physical systems
authors: Heng Fan, Gregor Weihs, Keiji Matsumoto, Hiroshi Imai
comments: Revtex, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A66, 024307 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112094
abstract: Optimal procedures play an important role in quantum information. It turns out that some naturally occurring processes like emission of light from an atom can realize optimal transformations. Here we study how arbitrary symmetric states of a number of d-level systems can be cloned using a multilevel atomic system. It is shown that optimality is always ensured even though the output number of systems is probabilistic.

id: quant-ph/0112095
title: Why Decoherence has not Solved the Measurement Problem: A Response to P. W. Anderson
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: 
journal: Stud.Hist.Philos.Mod.Phys.34:135-142,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112095
abstract: We discuss why, contrary to claims recently made by P. W. Anderson, decoherence has not solved the quantum measurement problem.

id: quant-ph/0112096
title: Clebsch-Gordan coefficients and the binomial distribution
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 6 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112096
abstract: A class of Clebsch-Gordan coefficients are derived from the properties of conditional probability using the binomial distribution. In particular, in the case of $l=l_1+l_2$ it is shown that $$[<l_1/2-k_1, l_2/2-k_2|l/2, k=k_1+k_2]>^2 =\frac{(\begin{array}{c} l_1 k_1\end{array}) (\begin{array}{c}l_2 k_2\end{array})}{(\begin{array}{c}l k \end{array})}$$

id: quant-ph/0112097
title: An entanglement monotone derived from Grover's algorithm
authors: Ofer Biham, Michael A. Nielsen, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112097
abstract: This paper demonstrates that how well a state performs as an input to Grover's search algorithm depends critically upon the entanglement present in that state; the more entanglement, the less well the algorithm performs. More precisely, suppose we take a pure state input, and prior to running the algorithm apply local unitary operations to each qubit in order to maximize the probability P_max that the search algorithm succeeds. We prove that, for pure states, P_max is an entanglement monotone, in the sense that P_max can never be decreased by local operations and classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0112098
title: Spectra of regular quantum graphs
authors: Yu. Dabaghian, R. V. Jensen, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112098
abstract: We consider a class of simple quasi one-dimensional classically non-integrable systems which capture the essence of the periodic orbit structure of general hyperbolic nonintegrable dynamical systems. Their behavior is simple enough to allow a detailed investigation of both classical and quantum regimes. Despite their classical chaoticity, these systems exhibit a ``nonintegrable analog'' of the Einstein-Brillouin-Keller quantization formula which provides their spectra explicitly, state by state, by means of convergent periodic orbit expansions.

id: quant-ph/0112099
title: The origin of the algebra of quantum operators in the stochastic formulation of quantum mechanics
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 10 pages
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics Vol. 3, (1979) pp 367-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112099
abstract: The origin of the algebra of the non-commuting operators of quantum mechanics is explained in the general Fenyes-Nelson stochastic models in which the diffusion constant is a free parameter. This is achieved by continuing the diffusion constant to imaginary values, a continuation which destroys the physical interpretation, but does not affect experimental predictions. This continuation leads to great mathematical simplification in the stochastic theory, and to an understanding of the entire mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics. It is more than a formal construction because the diffusion parameter is not an observable in these theories.

id: quant-ph/0112100
title: Multiple return times in the quantum baker map
authors: M. Fannes, P. Spincemaille
comments: 6 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112100
abstract: For chaotic classical systems, the distribution of return times to a small region of phase space is universal. We propose a simple tool to investigate multiple returns in quantum systems. Numerical evidence for the baker map and kicked top points, also in the quantum case, at a universal distribution.

id: quant-ph/0112101
title: Entanglement Creation Using Quantum Interrogation
authors: A. Gilchrist, A. G. White, W. J. Munro
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures, Submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A 66, 012106 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112101
abstract: We present some applications of high efficiency quantum interrogation ("interaction free measurement") for the creation of entangled states of separate atoms and of separate photons. The quantum interrogation of a quantum object in a superposition of object-in and object-out leaves the object and probe in an entangled state. The probe can then be further entangled with other objects in subsequent quantum interrogations. By then projecting out those cases were the probe is left in a particular final state, the quantum objects can themselves be left in various entangled states. In this way we show how to generate two-, three-, and higher qubit entanglement between atoms and between photons. The effect of finite efficiency for the quantum interrogation is delineated for the various schemes.

id: quant-ph/0112102
title: Violation of Bell's inequalities implies distillability for N qubits
authors: A. Acin, V. Scarani, M.M. Wolf
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, REVTEX. List of authors extended. Partially rewritten, a rather qualitative explanation of the results. Conclusions unchanged
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36, L21 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112102
abstract: We consider quantum systems composed of $N$ qubits, and the family of all Bell's correlation inequalities for two two-valued measurements per site. We show that if a $N$-qubit state $\rho$ violates any of these inequalities, then it is at least bipartite distillable. Indeed there exists a link between the amount of Bell's inequality violation and the degree of distillability. Thus, we strengthen the interpretation of Bell's inequalities as detectors of useful entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0112103
title: Lower Bounds on the Quantum Capacity and Highest Error Exponent of General Memoryless Channels
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. Ver.2: Comparisons with the previously known bounds and examples were added. Except for very noisy channels, this work's bound is, in general, better than those previously known. Ver.3: Introduction shortened. Minor changes
journal: IEEE Trans. Information Theory, vol.48, no.9, pp.2547--2557, Sept. 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112103
abstract: Tradeoffs between the information rate and fidelity of quantum error-correcting codes are discussed. Quantum channels to be considered are those subject to independent errors and modeled as tensor products of copies of a general completely positive linear map, where the dimension of the underlying Hilbert space is a prime number. On such a quantum channel, the highest fidelity of a quantum error-correcting code of length $n$ and rate R is proven to be lower bounded by 1 - \exp [-n E(R) + o(n)] for some function E(R). The E(R) is positive below some threshold R', which implies R' is a lower bound on the quantum capacity. The result of this work applies to general discrete memoryless channels, including channel models derived from a physical law of time evolution, or from master equations.

id: quant-ph/0112104
title: Scattering of heavy charged particles on hydrogen atoms
authors: R. Lazauskas, J. Carbonell
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, contribution to International Workshop "Dynamics and structure of critically stable quantum few-body systems" held at Les Houches, France, October 8-13, 2001. To appear in Few-Body Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112104
abstract: The low energy scattering of heavy positively charged particles on hydrogen atoms (H) are investigated by solving the Faddeev equations in configuration space. A resonant value of the pH scattering length, $a=750\pm 5$ a.u., in the pp antisymmetric state was found. This large value indicates the existence of a first excited state with a binding energy B=1.14$\times10^{-9}$ a.u. below the H ground state. Several resonances for non zero angular momenta states are predicted.

id: quant-ph/0112105
title: Information and Computation: Classical and Quantum Aspects
authors: A. Galindo, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: REVTEX4.b4 file, 82 two-column pages, 60 ps and eps color figures. Reviews of Modern Physics to appear (submitted June 2001)
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.74:347-423,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112105
abstract: Quantum theory has found a new field of applications in the realm of information and computation during the recent years. This paper reviews how quantum physics allows information coding in classically unexpected and subtle nonlocal ways, as well as information processing with an efficiency largely surpassing that of the present and foreseeable classical computers. Some outstanding aspects of classical and quantum information theory will be addressed here. Quantum teleportation, dense coding, and quantum cryptography are discussed as a few samples of the impact of quanta in the transmission of information. Quantum logic gates and quantum algorithms are also discussed as instances of the improvement in information processing by a quantum computer. We provide finally some examples of current experimental realizations for quantum computers and future prospects.

id: quant-ph/0112106
title: Approximate quantum error correction
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112106
abstract: The errors that arise in a quantum channel can be corrected perfectly if and only if the channel does not decrease the coherent information of the input state. We show that, if the loss of coherent information is small, then approximate error correction is possible.

id: quant-ph/0112107
title: Quantum Shift Register
authors: Jae-weon Lee, Eok Kyun Lee, Jaewan Kim, Soonchil Lee
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112107
abstract: We consider a quantum circuit in which shift and rotation operations on qubits are performed by swap gates and controlled swap gates. These operations can be useful for quantum computers performing elementary arithmetic operations such as multiplication and a bit-wise comparison of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0112108
title: Generalized Hartree Method: A Novel Non-perturbative Scheme for Interacting Quantum systems
authors: B. P. Mahapatra, N. Santi, N. B. Pradhan
comments: 18 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112108
abstract: A self-consistent, non-perturbative scheme of approximation is proposed for arbitrary interacting quantum systems by generalization of the Hartree method.The scheme consists in approximating the original interaction term $\lambda H_I$ by a suitable 'potential' $\lambda V(\phi)$ which satisfies the following two requirements: (i) the 'Hartree Hamiltonian' $H_o$ generated by $V(\phi)$ is exactly solvable i.e, the eigen states $|n>$ and the eigenvalues $E_n$ are known and (ii) the 'quantum averages' of the two are equal, i.e. $< n|H_I|n>$ = $<n|V(\phi)|n>$ for arbitrary $'n '$. The leading-order results for $|n>$ and $E_n$, which are already accurate, can be systematically improved further by the development of a 'Hartree-improved perturbation theory' (HIPT) with $H_o$ as the unperturbed part and the modified interaction:$\lambda H^{\prime} \equiv \lambda (H_I-V)$ as the perturbation. The HIPT is assured of rapid convergence because of the 'Hartree condtion' : $<n| H'| n> = 0$. This is in contrast to the naive perturbation theory developed with the original interaction term $\lambda H_I$ chosen as the perturbation, which diverges even for infinitesimal $\lambda$ ! The structure of the Hartree vacuum is shown to be highly non-trivial. Application of the method to the anharmonic-and double-well quartic-oscillators, anharmonic- sextic and octic- oscillators leads to very accurate results for the energy levels. In case of $\lambda \phi^{4}$ quantum field theory, the method reproduces, in the leading order, the results of Gaussian approximation, which can be improved further by the HIPT. We study the vacuum structure, renormalisation and stability of the theory in GHA.

id: quant-ph/0112109
title: Theoretical analysis of quantum dynamics in 1D lattices: Wannier-Stark description
authors: Quentin Thommen, Jean Claude Garreau, Veronique Zehnle
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A 65, 053406 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112109
abstract: This papers presents a formalism describing the dynamics of a quantum particle in a one-dimensional tilted time-dependent lattice. The description uses the Wannier-Stark states, which are localized in each site of the lattice and provides a simple framework leading to fully-analytical developments. Particular attention is devoted to the case of a time-dependent potential, which results in a rich variety of quantum coherent dynamics is found.

id: quant-ph/0112110
title: Alternative commutation relations, star products and tomography
authors: Olga V. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo
comments: LATEX plus two style files, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112110
abstract: Invertible maps from operators of quantum obvservables onto functions of c-number arguments and their associative products are first assessed. Different types of maps like Weyl-Wigner-Stratonovich map and s-ordered quasidistribution are discussed. The recently introduced symplectic tomography map of observables (tomograms) related to the Heisenberg-Weyl group is shown to belong to the standard framework of the maps from quantum observables onto the c-number functions. The star-product for symbols of the quantum-observable for each one of the maps (including the tomographic map) and explicit relations among different star-products are obtained. Deformations of the Moyal star-product and alternative commutation relations are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0112111
title: Quantum Clock Synchronization: a Multi-Party Protocol
authors: Marko Krco, Prabasaj Paul
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112111
abstract: We present a multi-party quantum clock synchronization protocol that utilizes shared prior entanglement and broadcast of classical information to synchronize spatially separated clocks. Notably, it is necessary only for any one party to publish classical information. Consequently, the efficacy of the method is independent of the relative location of the parties. The suggested protocol is robust and does not require precise sequencing of procedural steps.

id: quant-ph/0112112
title: Tomographic map within the framework of star-product quantization
authors: Olga V. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: LATEX plus sprocl.sty, to appear in the Proceedings of the conference ``Quantum Theory and Symmetries'' (Krakow, July 2001), World Scietific
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112112
abstract: Tomograms introduced for the description of quantum states in terms of probability distributions are shown to be related to a standard star-product quantization with appropriate kernels. Examples of symplectic tomograms and spin tomograms are presented.

id: quant-ph/0112113
title: Mesoscopic molecular ions in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Robin Cote, V. Kharchenko, M.D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages (two-columns), 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112113
abstract: We study the possible formation of large (mesoscopic) molecular ions in an ultracold degenerate bosonic gas doped with charged particles (ions). We show that the polarization potentials produced by the ionic impurities are capable of capturing hundreds of atoms into loosely bound states. We describe the spontaneous formation of these hollow molecular ions via phonon emission and suggest an optical technique for coherent stimulated transitions of free atoms into a specific bound state. These results open up new interesting possibilities for manipulating tightly confined ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0112114
title: Momentum in stochastic quantum mechanics
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 7 pages
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics Vol. 5 (1981) pp 523--529
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112114
abstract: Momentum is analyzed as a random variable in stochastic quantum mechanics. Arbitrary potential energy functions are considered. The oscillator is presented as an example.

id: quant-ph/0112115
title: Inequivalence of pure state ensembles for open quantum systems: the preferred ensembles are those that are physically realizable
authors: H.M. Wiseman, John A. Vaccaro
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 87, 240402 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112115
abstract: An open quantum system in steady state $\hat\rho_{ss}$ can be represented by a weighted ensemble of pure states $\hat\rho_{ss}=\sum_{k}\wp_{k}\ket{\psi_k} \bra{\psi_k}$ in infinitely many ways. A physically realizable (PR) ensemble is one for which some continuous measurement of the environment will collapse the system into a pure state $\ket{\psi(t)}$, stochastically evolving such that the proportion of time for which $\ket{\psi(t)} = \ket{\psi_{k}}$ equals $\wp_{k}$. Some, but not all, ensembles are PR. This constitutes the preferred ensemble fact, with the PR ensembles being the preferred ensembles. We present the necessary and sufficient conditions for a given ensemble to be PR, and illustrate the method by showing that the coherent state ensemble is not PR for an atom laser.

id: quant-ph/0112116
title: Weak Values, Quantum Trajectories, and the Stony-Brook Cavity QED experiment
authors: H.M. Wiseman
comments: 6 pages, no figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PRA 65, 032111 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112116
abstract: Weak values as introduced by Aharonov, Albert and Vaidman (AAV) are ensemble average values for the results of weak measurements. They are interesting when the ensemble is preselected on a particular initial state and postselected on a particular final measurement result. I show that weak values arise naturally in quantum optics, as weak measurements occur whenever an open system is monitored (as by a photodetector). I use quantum trajectory theory to derive a generalization of AAV's formula to include (a) mixed initial conditions, (b) nonunitary evolution, (c) a generalized (non-projective) final measurement, and (d) a non-back-action-evading weak measurement. I apply this theory to the recent Stony-Brook cavity QED experiment demonstrating wave-particle duality [G.T. Foster, L.A. Orozco, H.M. Castro-Beltran, and H.J. Carmichael, Phys. Rev. Lett. {85}, 3149 (2000)]. I show that the ``fractional'' correlation function measured in that experiment can be recast as a weak value in a form as simple as that introduced by AAV.

id: quant-ph/0112117
title: A Raman approach to quantum logic in Calcium-like ions
authors: Mark S. Gulley, Andrew G. White, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures. Submitted to Journal of Quantum Information & Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112117
abstract: We consider the feasibility of performing quantum logic operations based on stimulated Raman transitions in trapped Calcium ions. This technique avoids many of the technical difficulties involved with laser stabilisation, and only three laser wavelengths are required, none of which need have particularly stringent requirements on their bandwidths. The possible problems with experimental realisations are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0112118
title: Some Points On Casimir Forces
authors: Amir H.Abbassi &A.R.Sadre Momtaz
comments: 9 pages,no figure
journal: J.Sci.Islamic Republ.Iran 9 (1998) 258-262
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112118
abstract: Casimir forces of massive fermionic Dirac fields are calculated for parallel plates geometry in spatial space with dimension d and imposing bag model boundary conditions.It is shown that in the range of ma>>1 where m is mass of fields quanta and a is the separation distance of the plates,it is equal to massive bosonic fields Casimir force for each degree of freedom.We argue this equality exists for any massive anyonic field in two-dimensional spatial space.Also the ratio of massless fermionic field Casimir force to its bosonic correspondent in d-dimentional spatial space is $(1-1/2^d)$.

id: quant-ph/0112119
title: Quantum mechanics without spacetime - a possible case for noncommutative differential geometry?
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112119
abstract: The rules of quantum mechanics require a time coordinate for their formulation. However, a notion of time is in general possible only when a classical spacetime geometry exists. Such a geometry is itself produced by classical matter sources. Thus it could be said that the currently known formulation of quantum mechanics pre-assumes the presence of classical matter fields. A more fundamental formulation of quantum mechanics should exist, which avoids having to use a notion of time. In this paper we discuss as to how such a fundamental formulation could be constructed for single particle, non-relativistic quantum mechanics. We argue that there is an underlying non-linear theory of quantum gravity, to which both standard quantum mechanics and classical general relativity are approximations. The timeless formulation of quantum mechanics follows from the underlying theory when the mass of the particle is much smaller than Planck mass. On the other hand, when the particle's mass is much larger than Planck mass, spacetime emerges and the underlying theory should reduce to classical mechanics and general relativity. We also suggest that noncommutative differential geometry is a possible candidate for describing this underlying theory.

id: quant-ph/0112120
title: Quantum Bit Commitment can be Unconditionally Secure
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: Revised; 9 pages, 0 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112120
abstract: It is generally believed that unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment (QBC) is proven impossible by a "no-go theorem". We point out that the theorem only establishes the existence of a cheating unitary transformation in any QBC scheme secure against the receiver, but this fact alone is not sufficient to rule out unconditionally secure QBC as a matter of principle, because there exists no proof that the cheating unitary transformation must be known to the cheater in all possible cases. In this work, we show how to circumvent the "no-go theorem" and prove that unconditionally secure QBC is in fact possible.

id: quant-ph/0112121
title: Momentum kicks due to quantum localization
authors: A.J.Short
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112121
abstract: The momentum changes caused by position measurements are a central feature of wave-particle duality. Here we investigate two cases - localization by a single slit, and which-way detection in the double-slit interference experiment - and examine in detail the associated momentum changes. Particular attention is given to the transfer of momentum between particle and detector, and the recoil of the measuring device. We find that single-slit diffraction relies on a form of `interaction-free' scattering, and that an ideal which-way measurement can be made without any back-reaction on the detector.

id: quant-ph/0112122
title: Relativistic Wigner Function, Charge Variable and Structure of Position Operator
authors: B.I. Lev, A.A. Semenov, C.V. Usenko
comments: 13 pages, no figures, Contribution to the Seventh International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations, Boston, Massachusetts,USA, 4-7 June 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112122
abstract: The relativistic phase-space representation by means of the usual position and momentum operators for a class of observables with Weyl symbols independent of charge variable (i.e. with any combination of position and momentum) is proposed. The dynamical equation coincides with its analogue in the non-local theory (generalization of the Newton-Wigner position operator approach) under conditions when particles creation is impossible. Differences reveal themselves in specific constraints on possible initial conditions.

id: quant-ph/0112123
title: Classical and Quantum-like approaches to Charged-Particle Fluids in a Quadrupole
authors: S. De Nicola, R. Fedele, V.I. Man'ko
comments: LaTex, to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112123
abstract: A classical description of the dynamics of a dissipative charged-particle fluid in a quadrupole-like device is developed. It is shown that the set of the classical fluid equations contains the same information as a complex function satisfying a Schrodinger-like equation in which Planck's constant is replaced by the time-varying emittance, which is related to the time-varying temperature of the fluid. The squared modulus and the gradient of the phase of this complex function are proportional to the fluid density and to the current velocity, respectively. Within this framework, the dynamics of an electron bunch in a storage ring in the presence of radiation damping and quantum-excitation is recovered. Furthermore, both standard and generalized (including dissipation) coherent states that may be associated with the classical particle fluids are fully described in terms of the above formalism.

id: quant-ph/0112124
title: Optimal conversion of non--local unitary operations
authors: W. D¨¹r, G. Vidal, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112124
abstract: We study when a non--local unitary operation acting on two $d$--level systems can probabilistically simulate another one when arbitrary local operations and classical communication are allowed. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for the simulation to be possible. Probabilistic interconvertability is used to define an equivalence relation between gates. We show that this relation induces a finite number of classes, that we identify. In the case of two qubits, two classes of non--local operations exist. We choose the CNOT and SWAP as representatives of these classes. We show how the CNOT [SWAP] can be deterministically converted into any operation of its class. We also calculate the optimal probability of obtaining the CNOT [SWAP] from any operation of the corresponding class and provide a protocol to achieve this task.

id: quant-ph/0112125
title: Photoconductance Quantization in a Single-Photon Detector
authors: Hideo Kosaka, Deepak S. Rao, Hans D. Robinson, Prabhakar Bandaru, Toshitsugu Sakamoto, Eli Yablonovitch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 65, R201307 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112125
abstract: We have made a single-photon detector that relies on photoconductive gain in a narrow electron channel in an AlGaAs/GaAs 2-dimensional electron gas. Given that the electron channel is 1-dimensional, the photo-induced conductance has plateaus at multiples of the quantum conductance 2e$^{2}$/h. Super-imposed on these broad conductance plateaus are many sharp, small, conductance steps associated with single-photon absorption events that produce individual photo-carriers. This type of photoconductive detector could measure a single photon, while safely storing and protecting the spin degree of freedom of its photo-carrier. This function is valuable for a quantum repeater that would allow very long distance teleportation of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0112126
title: Atom correlations and spin squeezing near the Heisenberg limit: finite system size effect and decoherence
authors: A. Andr¨¦, M.D. Lukin
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053819 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112126
abstract: We analyze a model for spin squeezing based on the so-called counter-twisting Hamiltonian, including the effects of dissipation and finite system size. We discuss the conditions under which the Heisenberg limit, i.e. phase sensitivity $\propto 1/N$, can be achieved. A specific implementation of this model based on atom-atom interactions via quantized photon exchange is presented in detail. The resulting excitation corresponds to the creation of spin-flipped atomic pairs and can be used for fast generation of entangled atomic ensembles, spin squeezing and apllications in quantum information processing. The conditions for achieving strong spin squeezing with this mechanism are also analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0112127
title: ROM-based quantum computation: Experimental explorations using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, and future prospects
authors: D. R. Sypher, I. M. Brereton, H. M. Wiseman, B. L. Hollis, B. C. Travaglione
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 012306 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112127
abstract: ROM-based quantum computation (QC) is an alternative to oracle-based QC. It has the advantages of being less ``magical'', and being more suited to implementing space-efficient computation (i.e. computation using the minimum number of writable qubits). Here we consider a number of small (one and two-qubit) quantum algorithms illustrating different aspects of ROM-based QC. They are: (a) a one-qubit algorithm to solve the Deutsch problem; (b) a one-qubit binary multiplication algorithm; (c) a two-qubit controlled binary multiplication algorithm; and (d) a two-qubit ROM-based version of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. For each algorithm we present experimental verification using NMR ensemble QC. The average fidelities for the implementation were in the ranges 0.9 - 0.97 for the one-qubit algorithms, and 0.84 - 0.94 for the two-qubit algorithms. We conclude with a discussion of future prospects for ROM-based quantum computation. We propose a four-qubit algorithm, using Grover's iterate, for solving a miniature ``real-world'' problem relating to the lengths of paths in a network.

id: quant-ph/0112128
title: Squeezing and feedback
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 54 pages, 4 figures. Accepted (in 1999) as an invited chapter in "Quantum Squeezing", a Springer volume edited by P.D. Drummond and Z. Ficek. This is the final, updated, version supposedly to be published in November 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112128
abstract: Electro-optical feedback has many features in common with optical nonlinearities and hence is relevant to the generation of squeezing. First, I discuss theoretical and experimental results for traveling-wave feedback, emphasizing how the ``in-loop'' squeezing (also known as ``squashing'') differs from free squeezing. Although such feedback, based on ordinary (demolition) photodetection cannot create free squeezing, it can be used to manipulate it. Then I treat feedback based on nonlinear quantum optical measurements (of which non-demolition measurements are one example). These {\em are} able to produce free squeezing, as shown in a number of experiments. Following that I discuss theories showing that intracavity squeezing can be increased using ordinary feedback, and produced using QND-based feedback. Finally, I return to ``squashed'' fields and present recent results showing that the reduced in-loop fluctuations can suppress atomic decay in a manner analogous to the effect for squeezed fields.

id: quant-ph/0112129
title: Quantum Trajectories for Realistic Detection
authors: P. Warszawski, H. M. Wiseman, H. Mabuchi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (3 .eps included, 1 jpeg as an additional file). To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PRA 65, 023802 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112129
abstract: Quantum trajectories describe the stochastic evolution of an open quantum system conditioned on continuous monitoring of its output, such as by an ideal photodetector. Here we derive (non-Markovian) quantum trajectories for realistic photodetection, including the effects of efficiency, dead time, bandwidth, electronic noise, and dark counts. We apply our theory to a realistic cavity QED scenario and investigate the impact of such detector imperfections on the conditional evolution of the system state. A practical theory of quantum trajectories with realistic detection will be essential for experimental and technological applications of quantum feedback in many areas.

id: quant-ph/0112130
title: Tomography of multimode quantum systems with quadratic Hamiltonians and multivariable Hermite polynomials
authors: V. I. Man'ko, V. A. Sharapov, E. V. Shchukin
comments: LaTeX, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112130
abstract: The systems with multimode nonstationary Hamiltonians quadratic in position and momentum operators are reviewed. The tomographic probability distributions (tomograms) for the Fock states and Gaussian states of the quadratic systems are discussed. The tomograms for the Fock states are expressed in terms of multivariable Hermite polynomials. Using the obvious physical relations some new formulas for multivariable Hermite polynomials are found. Examples of oscillator and charge moving in electromagnetic field are presented.

id: quant-ph/0112131
title: Entanglement cost of mixed states
authors: G. Vidal, W. D¨¹r, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, no figures, (v4) new results, including a new method to determine E_c for more general mixed states, presentation changed significantly
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 027901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112131
abstract: We compute the entanglement cost of several families of bipartite mixed states, including arbitrary mixtures of two Bell states. This is achieved by developing a technique that allows us to ascertain the additivity of the entanglement of formation for any state supported on specific subspaces. As a side result, the proof of the irreversibility in asymptotic local manipulations of entanglement is extended to two-qubit systems.

id: quant-ph/0112132
title: Eigenstates of Operating Quantum Computer: Hypersensitivity to Static Imperfections
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Simone Montangero, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 20 (2002) 293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112132
abstract: We study the properties of eigenstates of an operating quantum computer which simulates the dynamical evolution in the regime of quantum chaos. Even if the quantum algorithm is polynomial in number of qubits $n_q$, it is shown that the ideal eigenstates become mixed and strongly modified by static imperfections above a certain threshold which drops exponentially with $n_q$. Above this threshold the quantum eigenstate entropy grows linearly with $n_q$ but the computation remains reliable during a time scale which is polynomial in the imperfection strength and in $n_q$.

id: quant-ph/0112133
title: Using Cloning to Solve NP Complete Problems
authors: John A. Drakopoulos, Theodore N. Tomaras
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112133
abstract: Assuming a cloning oracle, satisfiability, which is an NP complete problem, is shown to belong to $BPP^C$ and $BQP^C$ (depending on the ability of the oracle C to clone either a binary random variable or a qubit). The same result is extended in the case of an approximate cloning oracle, thus establishing that $NP \subseteq BPP^C \subseteq BQP^C$ and $NP \subseteq BPP^{AC} \subseteq BQP^{AC}$, where C and AC are the exact and approximate cloning oracles, respectively. Although exact cloning is impossible in quantum systems, approximate cloning remains a possibility. However, the best known methods for approximate cloning (based on unitary evolution) do not currently achieve the desired precision levels. And it remains an open question whether they could be improved when non-linear (or non-unitary) operators are used. Finally, a straightforward attempt to dispense with cloning, replacing it by unitary evolution, is proved to be impossible.

id: quant-ph/0112134
title: A perspectival version of the modal interpretation of quantum mechanics and the origin of macroscopic behavior
authors: Gyula Bene, Dennis Dieks
comments: 12 pages RevTeX4, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112134
abstract: We study the process of observation (measurement), within the framework of a `perspectival' (`relational', `relative state') version of the modal interpretation of quantum mechanics. We show that if we assume certain features of discreteness and determinism in the operation of the measuring device (which could be a part of the observer's nerve system), this gives rise to classical characteristics of the observed properties, in the first place to spatial localization. We investigate to what extent semi-classical behavior of the object system itself (as opposed to the observational system) is needed for the emergence of classicality. Decoherence is an essential element in the mechanism of observation that we assume, but it turns out that in our approach no environment-induced decoherence on the level of the object system is required for the emergence of classical properties.

id: quant-ph/0112135
title: Implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm with Josephson charge qubits
authors: Jens Siewert, Rosario Fazio
comments: accepted for publication in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112135
abstract: We investigate the realization of a simple solid-state quantum computer by implementing the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm in a system of Josephson charge qubits. Starting from a procedure to carry out the one-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm we show how the N-qubit version of the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm can be realized. For the implementation of the three-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm we study in detail a setup which allows to produce entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0112136
title: Locality and topology in the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 210401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112136
abstract: It is shown that the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect is neither nonlocal nor topological in the sense of the standard magnetic Aharonov-Bohm effect. It is further argued that there is a close relationship between the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect and the Aharonov-Casher effect for an electrically neutral spin$-{1/2}$ particle encircling a line of charge.

id: quant-ph/0112137
title: Uniqueness of Entanglement Measure and Thermodynamics
authors: Vlatko Vedral, Elham Kashefi
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112137
abstract: We apply the axiomatic approach to thermodynamics presented by Giles to derive a unique measure of entanglement for bi-partite pure states. This implies that local manipulations of entanglement in quantum information theory and adiabatic transformations of states in thermodynamics have the same underlying mathematical structure. We discuss possible extensions of our results to mixed and multi-partite states.

id: quant-ph/0112138
title: Quasi-order of clocks and synchronism and quantum bounds for copying timing information
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 13 pages, revtex, 1 figure
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. 49(1):230-240, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112138
abstract: The statistical state of any (classical or quantum) system with non-trivial time evolution can be interpreted as the pointer of a clock. The quality of such a clock is given by the statistical distinguishability of its states at different times. If a clock is used as a resource for producing another one the latter can at most have the quality of the resource. We show that this principle, formalized by a quasi-order, implies constraints on many physical processes. Similarly, the degree to which two (quantum or classical) clocks are synchronized can be formalized by a quasi-order of synchronism. Copying timing information is restricted by quantum no-cloning and no-broadcasting theorems since classical clocks can only exist in the limit of infinite energy. We show this quantitatively by comparing the Fisher timing information of two output systems to the input's timing information. For classical signal processing in the quantum regime our results imply that a signal looses its localization in time if it is amplified and distributed to many devices.

id: quant-ph/0112139
title: Sub-Planck Structure, Decoherence, and Many-Body Environments
authors: Andrew Jordan, Mark Srednicki
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112139
abstract: In a recent paper [Nature 412, 712 (2001)], Zurek has argued that (1) time evolution typically causes chaotic quantum systems to generate structure that varies on the scale of phase-space volume elements of size $(\hbar^2/A)^d$, where A is a classical action characteristic of the state and d is the number of degrees of freedom, and that (2) this structure implies that a small change in a phase-space coordinate X by an amount $\delta X \sim \hbar X/A$ generically results in an orthogonal state. While we agree with (1), we argue that (2) is not correct if the number of degrees of freedom is small. Our arguments are based on the Berry-Voros ansatz for the structure of energy eigenstates in chaotic systems. We find, however, that (2) becomes valid if the number of degrees of freedom is large. This implies that many-body environments may be crucial for the phenomenon of quantum decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0112140
title: Entangled-Photon Generation from Parametric Down-Conversion in Media with Inhomogeneous Nonlinearity
authors: Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Mete Atature, Matthew D. Shaw, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112140
abstract: We develop and experimentally verify a theory of Type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in media with inhomogeneous distributions of second-order nonlinearity. As a special case, we explore interference effects from SPDC generated in a cascade of two bulk crystals separated by an air gap. The polarization quantum-interference pattern is found to vary strongly with the spacing between the two crystals. This is found to be a cooperative effect due to two mechanisms: the chromatic dispersion of the medium separating the crystals and spatiotemporal effects which arise from the inclusion of transverse wave vectors. These effects provide two concomitant avenues for controlling the quantum state generated in SPDC. We expect these results to be of interest for the development of quantum technologies and the generation of SPDC in periodically varying nonlinear materials.

id: quant-ph/0112141
title: Error correction code for protecting three-qubit quantum information against erasures
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 9 pages, no figures, REVTeX, version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112141
abstract: We present a quantum error correction code which protects three quantum bits (qubits) of quantum information against one erasure, i.e., a single-qubit arbitrary error at a known position. To accomplish this, we encode the original state by distributing quantum information over six qubits which is the minimal number for the present task (see reference [1]). The encoding and error recovery operations for such a code are presented. It is noted that the present code is also a three-qubit quantum hidded information code over each qubit. In addition, an encoding scheme for hiding $n$-qubit quantum information over each qubit is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0112142
title: Coherent States for Unusual Potentials
authors: Michael Martin Nieto
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, added info in Ref. 4
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 16 (2001) 2305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112142
abstract: The program to construct minimum-uncertainty coherent states for general potentials works transparently with solvable analytic potentials. However, when an analytic potential is not completely solvable, like for a double-well or the linear (gravitational) potential, there can be a conundrum. Motivated by supersymmetry concepts in higher dimensions, we show how these conundrums can be overcome.

id: quant-ph/0112143
title: Simulations of the adiabatic quantum optimization for the Set Partition Problem
authors: V.N. Smelyanskiy, U. V. Toussaint, D.A. Timucin
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures Added simulation results for n=17 bits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112143
abstract: We analyze the complexity of the quantum optimization algorithm based on adiabatic evolution for the set partition problem. We introduce a cost function defined on a logarithmic scale of the partition residues so that the total number of values of the cost function is of the order of the problem size. We simulate the behavior of the algorithm by numerical solution of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation as well as the stationary equation for the adiabatic eigenvalues. The numerical results for the time-dependent quantum evolution indicate that the complexity of the algorithm scales exponentially with the problem size.This result appears to contradict the recent numerical results for complexity of quantum adiabatic algorithm applied to a different NP-complete problem (Farhi et al, Science 292, p.472 (2001)).

id: quant-ph/0112144
title: Creating Decoherence-Free Subspaces with Strong and Fast Pulses
authors: L.-A. Wu, D.A. Lidar
comments: This version to appear in PRL. Several small changes, including title and abstract. 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 207902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112144
abstract: A decoherence-free subspace (DFS) isolates quantum information from deleterious environmental interactions. We give explicit sequences of strong and fast (``bang-bang'', BB) pulses that create the conditions allowing for the existence of DFSs that support scalable, universal quantum computation. One such example is the creation of the conditions for collective decoherence, wherein all system particles are coupled in an identical manner to their environment. The BB pulses needed for this are generated using only the Heisenberg exchange interaction. In conjunction with previous results, this shows that Heisenberg exchange is all by itself an enabler of universal fault tolerant quantum computation on DFSs.

id: quant-ph/0112145
title: Atom Lasers, Coherent States, and Coherence:II. Maximally Robust Ensembles of Pure States
authors: H.M. Wiseman, John A. Vaccaro
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures included. To be published in Phys. Rev. A, as Part II of a two-part paper. The original version of quant-ph/9906125 is shortly to be replaced by a new version which is Part I of the two-part paper. This paper (Part II) also contains some material from the original version of quant-ph/9906125
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 043606 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112145
abstract: As discussed in Wiseman and Vaccaro [quant-ph/9906125], the stationary state of an optical or atom laser far above threshold is a mixture of coherent field states with random phase, or, equivalently, a Poissonian mixture of number states. We are interested in which, if either, of these descriptions of $\rho_{ss}$, is more natural. In the preceding paper we concentrated upon whether descriptions such as these are physically realizable (PR). In this paper we investigate another relevant aspect of these ensembles, their robustness. A robust ensemble is one for which the pure states that comprise it survive relatively unchanged for a long time under the system evolution. We determine numerically the most robust ensembles as a function of the parameters in the laser model: the self-energy $\chi$ of the bosons in the laser mode, and the excess phase noise $\nu$. We find that these most robust ensembles are PR ensembles, or similar to PR ensembles, for all values of these parameters. In the ideal laser limit ($\nu=\chi=0$), the most robust states are coherent states. As the phase noise $\nu$ or phase dispersion $\chi$ is increased, the most robust states become increasingly amplitude-squeezed. We find scaling laws for these states. As the phase diffusion or dispersion becomes so large that the laser output is no longer quantum coherent, the most robust states become so squeezed that they cease to have a well-defined coherent amplitude. That is, the quantum coherence of the laser output is manifest in the most robust PR states having a well-defined coherent amplitude. This lends support to the idea that robust PR ensembles are the most natural description of the state of the laser mode. It also has interesting implications for atom lasers in particular, for which phase dispersion due to self-interactions is expected to be large.

id: quant-ph/0112146
title: Scalar charged particle in Weyl--Wigner--Moyal phase space. Constant magnetic field
authors: B.I. Lev, A.A. Semenov, C.V. Usenko
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures, minor corrections
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research (Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers) 23, 347--368 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112146
abstract: A relativistic phase-space representation for a class of observables with matrix-valued Weyl symbols proportional to the identity matrix (charge-invariant observables)is proposed. We take into account the nontrivial charge structure of the position and momentum operators. The evolution equation coincides with its analog in relativistic quantum mechanics with nonlocal Hamiltonian under conditions where particle-pair creation does not take place (free particle and constant magnetic field). The differences in the equations are connected with peculiarities of the constraints on the initial conditions. An effective increase in coherence between eigenstates of the Hamiltonian is found and possibilities of its experimental observation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112147
title: Quantum key distribution with realistic states: photon-number statistics in the photon-number splitting attack
authors: Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Mika Jahma
comments: 4 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 4 (July 2002) 44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112147
abstract: Quantum key distribution can be performed with practical signal sources such as weak coherent pulses. One example of such a scheme is the Bennett-Brassard protocol that can be implemented via polarization of the signals, or equivalent signals. It turns out that the most powerful tool at the disposition of an eavesdropper is the photon-number splitting attack. We show that this attack can be extended in the relevant parameter regime such as to preserve the Poissonian photon number distribution of the combination of the signal source and the lossy channel.

id: quant-ph/0112148
title: In defence of naivete: The conceptual status of Lagrangian QFT
authors: David Wallace
comments: 43 pages
journal: Synthese 151:33-80,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112148
abstract: I analyse the conceptual and mathematical foundations of Lagrangian quantum field theory (that is, the "naive" quantum field theory used in mainstream physics, as opposed to algebraic quantum field theory). The objective is to see whether Lagrangian quantum field theory has a sufficiently firm conceptual and mathematical basis to be a legitimate object of foundational study, or whether it is too ill-defined. The analysis covers renormalisation and infinities, inequivalent representations, and the concept of localised states; the conclusion is that Lagrangian QFT (at least as described here) is a perfectly respectable physical theory, albeit somewhat different in certain respects from most of those studied in foundational work.

id: quant-ph/0112149
title: Emergence of particles from bosonic quantum field theory
authors: David Wallace
comments: 43 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112149
abstract: An examination is made of the way in which particles emerge from linear, bosonic, massive quantum field theories. Two different constructions of the one-particle subspace of such theories are given, both illustrating the importance of the interplay between the quantum-mechanical linear structure and the classical one. Some comments are made on the Newton-Wigner representation of one-particle states, and on the relationship between the approach of this paper and those of Segal, and of Haag and Ruelle.

id: quant-ph/0112150
title: Comments on the experimental disproof of Multisimultaneity
authors: Olivier Costa de Beauregard
comments: 2 pages Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112150
abstract: The recent Geneva experiment strikingly displays lawlike reversibility together with quantum nonseparability. As in any probabilistic physics correlation expresses interaction, and as Born's probability rules grafted upon de Broglie's wave mechanics turn the probability scheme into the code of an information transmitting telegraph, the Lorentz and CPT invariant transition amplitude reversibly carries a zigzagging causation.

id: quant-ph/0112151
title: Signal-Locality and Subquantum Information in Deterministic Hidden-Variables Theories
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 25 pages, latex, no figures. To appear in 'Modality, Probability, and Bell's Theorems', eds. T. Placek and J. Butterfield (Kluwer, 2002) [proceedings of NATO workshop, Cracow, Poland, August 19-23, 2001]
journal: 'Non-Locality and Modality', eds. T. Placek and J. Butterfield (Kluwer, 2002), pp. 81-103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112151
abstract: It is proven that any deterministic hidden-variables theory, that reproduces quantum theory for a 'quantum equilibrium' distribution of hidden variables, must predict the existence of instantaneous signals at the statistical level for hypothetical 'nonequilibrium ensembles'. This 'signal-locality theorem' generalises yet another feature of the pilot-wave theory of de Broglie and Bohm, for which it is already known that signal-locality is true only in equilibrium. Assuming certain symmetries, lower bounds are derived on the 'degree of nonlocality' of the singlet state, defined as the (equilibrium) fraction of outcomes at one wing of an EPR-experiment that change in response to a shift in the distant angular setting. It is shown by explicit calculation that these bounds are satisfied by pilot-wave theory. The degree of nonlocality is interpreted as the average number of bits of 'subquantum information' transmitted superluminally, for an equilibrium ensemble. It is proposed that this quantity might provide a novel measure of the entanglement of a quantum state, and that the field of quantum information would benefit from a more explicit hidden-variables approach. It is argued that the signal-locality theorem supports the hypothesis, made elsewhere, that in the remote past the universe relaxed to a state of statistical equilibrium at the hidden-variable level, a state in which nonlocality happens to be masked by quantum noise.

id: quant-ph/0112152
title: From Monte Carlo to Quantum Computation
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: Paper submitted to the Proceedings of the 3rd IMACS Seminar on Monte Carlo Methods MCM2001, Salzburg. 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112152
abstract: Quantum computing was so far mainly concerned with discrete problems. Recently, E. Novak and the author studied quantum algorithms for high dimensional integration and dealt with the question, which advantages quantum computing can bring over classical deterministic or randomized methods for this type of problem. In this paper we give a short introduction to the basic ideas of quantum computing and survey recent results on high dimensional integration. We discuss connections to the Monte Carlo methology and compare the optimal error rates of quantum algorithms to those of classical deterministic and randomized algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0112153
title: Quantum Integration in Sobolev Classes
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: Paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity. 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112153
abstract: We study high dimensional integration in the quantum model of computation. We develop quantum algorithms for integration of functions from Sobolev classes $W^r_p([0,1]^d)$ and analyze their convergence rates. We also prove lower bounds which show that the proposed algorithms are, in many cases, optimal within the setting of quantum computing. This extends recent results of Novak on integration of functions from H\"older classes.

id: quant-ph/0112154
title: Conservation laws, uncertainty relations, and quantum limits of measurements
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 050402(1--4) (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112154
abstract: The uncertainty relation between the noise operator and the conserved quantity leads to a bound for the accuracy of general measurements. The bound extends the assertion by Wigner, Araki, and Yanase that conservation laws limit the accuracy of ``repeatable'', or ``nondisturbing'', measurements to general measurements, and improves the one previously obtained by Yanase for spin measurements. The bound also sets an obstacle to making a small quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0112155
title: Understanding Quantum Entanglement of Bipartite System Based on Bell Inequality
authors: Li-Bin Fu, Jing-Ling Chen, Xian-Geng Zhao, Shi-Gang Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112155
abstract: We present an alternative definition of quantum entanglement for bipartite system based on Bell inequality and operators' noncommutativity. A state is said to be entangled, if the maximum of CHSH expectation value $F_{\max}$ is obtain by noncommutative measures on each particle of the bipartite system; otherwise, the state is a disentangled state. A uniform measure quantifying the degree of entanglement for any state of the bipartite system is also proposed.

id: quant-ph/0112156
title: Quantum Theory for the Binomial Model in Finance Thoery
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: Latex, 8 pages,1 figure, revised version,submitted
journal: Journal of Systems Science and Complexity, vol.17, 567-573(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112156
abstract: In this paper, a quantum model for the binomial market in finance is proposed. We show that its risk-neutral world exhibits an intriguing structure as a disk in the unit ball of ${\bf R}^3,$ whose radius is a function of the risk-free interest rate with two thresholds which prevent arbitrage opportunities from this quantum market. Furthermore, from the quantum mechanical point of view we re-deduce the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial option pricing formula by considering Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics of the system of $N$ distinguishable particles.

id: quant-ph/0112157
title: A model for the stochastic origins of Schrodinger's equation
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys.Vol 20 no. 9 September 1979, pp. 1865-1869
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112157
abstract: A model for the motion of a charged particle in the vacuum is presented which, although purely classical in concept, yields Schrodinger's equation as a solution. It suggests that the origins of the peculiar and nonclassical features of quantum mechanics are actually inherent in a statistical description of the radiative reactive force.

id: quant-ph/0112158
title: Quantum Finance: The Finite Dimensional Case
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 22 pages, revised version, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112158
abstract: In this paper, we present a quantum version of some portions of Mathematical Finance, including theory of arbitrage, asset pricing, and optional decomposition in financial markets based on finite dimensional quantum probability spaces. As examples, the quantum model of binomial markets is studied. We show that this quantum model ceases to pose the paradox which appears in the classical model of the binomial market. Furthermore, we re-deduce the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial option pricing formula by considering multi-period quantum binomial markets.

id: quant-ph/0112159
title: A Non-commutative Version of the Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: Latex, 8 pages; submitted to Acta Math.Sci
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112159
abstract: In this note, a non-commutative analogue of the fundamental theorem of asset pricing in mathematical finance is proved.

id: quant-ph/0112160
title: Charge in electric field in probability representation
authors: V. I. Man'ko, E. V. Shchukin
comments: LaTeX, zip, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112160
abstract: Green function and linear integrals of motion for a charged particle moving in electric field are discussed. Wigner function and tomogram of the ststionary states of the charge are obtained. Connection of quantum propagators for Schrodinger evolution equation, Moyal evolution equation and evolution equation in tomographic probability representation for charge moving in electric field is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112161
title: Experimental Realization of Br¨¹schweiler's exponentially fast search algorithm in a homo-nuclear system
authors: Li Xiao, G. L. Long, Hai-Yang Yan, Yang Sun
comments: 10 pages and 3 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, 117, 3310 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112161
abstract: Compared with classical search algorithms, Grover quantum algorithm [ Phys. Rev. Lett., 79, 325(1997)] achieves quadratic speedup and Bruschweiler hybrid quantum algorithm [Phys. Rev. Lett., 85, 4815(2000)] achieves an exponential speedup. In this paper, we report the experimental realization of the Bruschweiler$ algorithm in a 3-qubit NMR ensemble system. The pulse sequences are used for the algorithms and the measurement method used here is improved on that used by Bruschweiler, namely, instead of quantitatively measuring the spin projection of the ancilla bit, we utilize the shape of the ancilla bit spectrum. By simply judging the downwardness or upwardness of the corresponding peaks in an ancilla bit spectrum, the bit value of the marked state can be read out, especially, the geometric nature of this read-out can make the results more robust against errors.

id: quant-ph/0112162
title: Fetching marked items from an unsorted database in NMR ensemble computing
authors: L. Xiao, G. L. Long
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A66,052320 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112162
abstract: Searching a marked item or several marked items from an unsorted database is a very difficult mathematical problem. Using classical computer, it requires $O(N=2^n)$ steps to find the target. Using a quantum computer, Grover's algorithm uses $O(\sqrt{N=2^n})$ steps. In NMR ensemble computing, Brushweiler's algorithm uses $\log N$ steps. In this Letter, we propose an algorithm that fetches marked items in an unsorted database directly. It requires only a single query. It can find a single marked item or multiple number of items.

id: quant-ph/0112163
title: Comment on ``One-Step Synthesis of Multiatom Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States'' [Shi-Biao Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 230404 (2001)]
authors: G.S. Agarwal, R.R. Puri, R.P. Singh
comments: one page, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112163
abstract: We point out the relation between the work of Zheng and ours, APS [G.S. Agarwal, R.R. Puri, and R.P. Singh, Phys. Rev. A 56, 2249 (2001)] and show the important connection between the atomic cat state and the GHZ states.

id: quant-ph/0112164
title: Stationary states of Jaynes-Cummings model with atomic center-of-mass quantum motion: direct comparison of standing-wave and counterpropagating-waves cases
authors: A. Zh. Muradyan, G. A. Muradyan
comments: 13 pages, 9 Postscript figures, zipped
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112164
abstract: The eigenstate problem of the Jaynes-Cummings model on the basis of complete Hamiltonian, including the center-of -mass kinetic energy operator, is treated. The energy spectrum and wave functions in standing-wave (SW)- and counterpropagating waves (CPW)- cases are calculated and compared with each other. It is shown that in CPW-case i) the atomic momentum distribution is asymmetric and somewhat narrower in general; ii) the concept of quasimomentum is not applicable and instead the ordinary momentum concerns the problem; iii) atomic and photonic state distributions are self-consistent, and, in consequence iiii) mean number of photons in the counterpropagating traveling waves and mean atomic momentum match. Explicit analytic expressions for energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are found in Tavis -Cummings-type approximation [Phys. Rev. 170, 379(1968)] and is pointed, that it implies only the bounded-like states for atomic center-of-mass motion. It is also shown that if the recoil energy is taken into account, the Doppleron resonance is split into two branches, one of which diverges to Bragg-like resonance in the high-order range.

id: quant-ph/0112165
title: Phase transitions in a one-dimensional multibarrier potential of finite range
authors: D. Bar, L. P. Horwitz
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures, 3 new figures have been added with the accompanying text
journal: Jour. Phys. B, 35, 4915-4931, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112165
abstract: We have previously studied properties of a one-dimensional potential with $N$ equally spaced identical barriers in a (fixed) finite interval for both finite and infinite $N$. It was observed that scattering and spectral properties depend sensitively on the ratio $c$ of spacing to width of the barriers (even in the limit $N \to \infty$). We compute here the specific heat of an ensemble of such systems and show that there is critical dependence on this parameter, as well as on the temperature, strongly suggestive of phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0112166
title: Towards a unification of physics and information theory
authors: I. Devetak, A. E. Staples
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX; title changed, paper reorganized & proof of second law added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112166
abstract: A common framework for quantum mechanics, thermodynamics and information theory is presented. It is accomplished by reinterpreting the mathematical formalism of Everett's many-worlds theory of quantum mechanics and augmenting it to include preparation according to a given ensemble. The notion of \emph{directed entanglement} is introduced through which both classical and quantum communication over quantum channels are viewed as entanglement transfer. This point is illustrated by proving the Holevo bound and quantum data processing inequality relying exclusively on the properties of directed entanglement. Within the model, quantum thermodynamic entropy is also related to directed entanglement, and a simple proof of the second law of thermodynamics is given.

id: quant-ph/0112167
title: Selected elevation in quantum tunneling
authors: Er'el Granot
comments: 4pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112167
abstract: The tunneling through an opaque barrier with a strong oscillating component is investigated. It is shown, that in the strong perturbations regime (in contrast to the weak one), higher perturbations rate does not necessarily improve the activation. In fact, in this regime two rival factors play a role, and as a consequence, this tunneling system behaves like a sensitive frequency-shifter device: for most incident particles' energies activation occurs and the particles are energetically elevated, while for specific energies activation is depressed and the transmission is very low. This effect is unique to the strong perturbation regime, and it is totally absent in the weak perturbation case. Moreover, it cannot be deduced even in the adiabatic regime. It is conjectured that this mechanism can be used as a frequency-dependent transistor, in which the device's transmission is governed by the external field frequency.

id: quant-ph/0112168
title: Interaction cost of non-local gates
authors: G. Vidal, K. Hammerer, J. I. Cirac
comments: revtex, 4 pages, no pictures, typos corrected, small changes in nomenclature
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 (2002) 237902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112168
abstract: We introduce the interaction cost of a non-local gate as the minimal time of interaction required to perform the gate when assisting the process with fast local unitaries. This cost, of interest both in the areas of quantum control and quantum information, depends on the specific interaction, and allows to compare in an operationally meaningful manner any two non-local gates. In the case of a two-qubit system, an analytical expression for the interaction cost of any unitary operation given any coupling Hamiltonian is obtained. One gate may be more time-consuming than another for any possible interaction. This defines a partial order structure in the set of non-local gates, that compares their degree of non-locality. We analytically characterize this partial order in a region of the set of two-qubit gates.

id: quant-ph/0112169
title: Geometric observation for the Bures fidelity between two states of a qubit
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Libin Fu, Abraham A. Ungar, Xian-Geng Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTex, Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 024303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112169
abstract: In this Brief Report, we present a geometric observation for the Bures fidelity between two states of a qubit.

id: quant-ph/0112170
title: Steering a quantum system over a Schroedinger bridge
authors: A. Beghi, A. Ferrante, M. Pavon
comments: Proc. Intern. Conf. on the Mathematical Theory of Networks and Systems, Perpignan, France, June 2000, CD-ROM, paper nr. 268, M. Fliess and A. El Jai Eds
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112170
abstract: A new approach to the steering problem for quantum systems relying on Nelson's stochastic mechanics and on the theory of Schroedinger bridges is presented. The method is illustrated by working out a simple Gaussian example.

id: quant-ph/0112171
title: Minimum-error discrimination between subsets of linearly dependent quantum states
authors: Ulrike Herzog, Janos A. Bergou
comments: Representation improved and generalized, references added. Accepted as a Rapid Communication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112171
abstract: A measurement strategy is developed for a new kind of hypothesis testing. It assigns, with minimum probability of error, the state of a quantum system to one or the other of two complementary subsets of a set of N given non-orthogonal quantum states occurring with given a priori probabilities. A general analytical solution is obtained for N states that are restricted to a two-dimensional subspace of the Hilbert space of the system. The result for the special case of three arbitrary but linearly dependent states is applied to a variety of sets of three states that are symmetric and equally probable. It is found that, in this case, the minimum error probability for distinguishing one of the states from the other two is only about half as large as the minimum error probability for distinguishing all three states individually.

id: quant-ph/0112172
title: Securing quantum bit commitment through reverse quantum communication
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112172
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen- (EPR) and the more powerful Mayers-Lo-Chau attack impose a serious constraint on quantum bit commitment (QBC). As a way to circumvent them, it is proposed that the quantum system encoding the commitment chosen by the committer (Alice) should be initially prepared in a seperable quantum state known to and furnished by the acceptor (Bob), rather than Alice. Classical communication is used to conclude the commitment phase and bind Alice's subsequent unveiling. Such a class of secure protocols can be built upon currently proposed QBC schemes impervious to a simple EPR attack. A specific scheme based on the Brassard-Crepeau-Josza-Langlois protocol is presented here as an example.

id: quant-ph/0112173
title: The van der Waals Potential between Metastable Atoms and Solid Surfaces: Novel Diffraction Experiments versus Theory
authors: Ruediger Bruehl, Peter Fouquet, Robert E. Grisenti, J. Peter Toennies, ; Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Thorsten Koehler, Martin Stoll, Christian Walter
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112173
abstract: Highly polarizable metastable He* ($\mathrm{2^3S}$) and Ne* ($\mathrm{2^3P}$) atoms have been diffracted from a 100 nm period silicon nitride transmission grating and the van der Waals coefficients $C_3$ for the interaction of the excited atoms with the silicon nitride surface have been determined from the diffraction intensities out to the 10th order. The results agree with calculations based on the non-retarded Lifshitz formula.

id: quant-ph/0112174
title: Semiclassical Quantization for the Spherically Symmetric Systems under an Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux
authors: W.F. Kao, P.G. Luan, D.H. Lin
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, some typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112174
abstract: The semiclassical quantization rule is derived for a system with a spherically symmetric potential $V(r) \sim r^{\nu}$ $(-2<\nu <\infty)$ and an Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux. Numerical results are presented and compared with known results for models with $\nu = -1,0,2,\infty$. It is shown that the results provided by our method are in good agreement with previous results. One expects that the semiclassical quantization rule shown in this paper will provide a good approximation for all principle quantum number even the rule is derived in the large principal quantum number limit $n \gg 1$. We also discuss the power parameter $\nu $ dependence of the energy spectra pattern in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0112175
title: The q-deformed Jaynes-Cummings Model and its q-Supercoherent States
authors: San-Ru Hao, Lu-Ya Wang
comments: Latex, 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112175
abstract: In this paper, we have proposed a q-deformed Jaynes-Cummings(JC) model and constructed the q-SuperCoherent States(q-SCSs) for the q-deformed JC model. We have also discussed the properties of the q-supercoherent states and given the completeness relation expression. The representation of the q-supercoherent states for the q-deformed JC model is studied as well. PACS number(s): 03.65.Nk Key Works: q-deformed JC model, q-supercoherent states,q-SCSs representation.

id: quant-ph/0112176
title: Experimental realization of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm using nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Lieven M.K. Vandersypen, Matthias Steffen, Gregory Breyta, Costantino S. Yannoni, Mark H. Sherwood, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: accepted version
journal: Nature 414, 883-887 (20/27 Dec 2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112176
abstract: The number of steps any classical computer requires in order to find the prime factors of an $l$-digit integer $N$ increases exponentially with $l$, at least using algorithms known at present. Factoring large integers is therefore conjectured to be intractable classically, an observation underlying the security of widely used cryptographic codes. Quantum computers, however, could factor integers in only polynomial time, using Shor's quantum factoring algorithm. Although important for the study of quantum computers, experimental demonstration of this algorithm has proved elusive. Here we report an implementation of the simplest instance of Shor's algorithm: factorization of ${N=15}$ (whose prime factors are 3 and 5). We use seven spin-1/2 nuclei in a molecule as quantum bits, which can be manipulated with room temperature liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. This method of using nuclei to store quantum information is in principle scalable to many quantum bit systems, but such scalability is not implied by the present work. The significance of our work lies in the demonstration of experimental and theoretical techniques for precise control and modelling of complex quantum computers. In particular, we present a simple, parameter-free but predictive model of decoherence effects in our system.

id: quant-ph/0112177
title: Some aspects of separability
authors: Shengjun Wu, Jeeva Anandan
comments: 4 pages, revtex
journal: Physics Letters A 297 (2002) 4-8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112177
abstract: We present three necessary separability criteria for bipartite mixed states, the violation of each of these conditions is a sufficient condition for entanglement. Some ideas on the issue of finding a necessary and sufficient criterion of separability are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0112178
title: On a Supposed Conceptual Inadequacy of the Shannon Information in Quantum Mechanics
authors: C. G. Timpson
comments: Published version, includes appendix discussing Zeilinger's Foundational Principle
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys., Vol 33 no 3 (2003), pp. 441-468
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112178
abstract: Recently, Brukner and Zeilinger (2001) have claimed that the Shannon information is not well defined as a measure of information in quantum mechanics, adducing arguments that seek to show that it is inextricably tied to classical notions of measurement. It is shown here that these arguments do not succeed: the Shannon information does not have problematic ties to classical concepts. In a further argument, Brukner and Zeilinger compare the Shannon information unfavourably to their preferred measure, I(p), with regard to the definition of a notion of `total information content'. This argument is found unconvincing and the relationship between individual measures of information and notions of `total information content' investigated. We close by considering the prospects of Zeilinger's Foundational Principle as a foundational principle for quantum mechanics

id: quant-ph/0112179
title: Conservative Quantum Computing
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 5 pages, RevTex. Corrected to include a new statement that for bosonic ancillae the lower bound of the error probability is inversely proportional to the average number of photons, kindly suggested by Julio Gea-Banacloche
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057902(1--4) (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112179
abstract: Conservation laws limit the accuracy of physical implementations of elementary quantum logic gates. If the computational basis is represented by a component of spin and physical implementations obey the angular momentum conservation law, any physically realizable unitary operators with size less than n qubits cannot implement the controlled-NOT gate within the error probability 1/(4n^2), where the size is defined as the total number of the computational qubits and the ancilla qubits. An analogous limit for bosonic ancillae is also obtained to show that the lower bound of the error probability is inversely proportional to the average number of photons. Any set of universal gates inevitably obeys a related limitation with error probability O(1/n^2)$. To circumvent the above or related limitations yielded by conservation laws, it is recommended that the computational basis should be chosen as the one commuting with the additively conserved quantities.

id: quant-ph/0112180
title: Resonances and spectral properties of detuned OPO pumped by fluctuating sources
authors: A. Porzio, C. Altucci, P. Aniello, C. de Lisio, S. Solimeno
comments: Revtex 15 pages + 8 Figures (PS) submitted to Applied Physics B (24/01/2002)
journal: Appl.Phys. B75 (2002) 655-665
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0112180
abstract: Twin beam fluctuations are analyzed for detuned and mismatched OPO configurations. Resonances and frequency responses to the quantum noise sources (quantum and pump amplitude/phase fluctuations) are examined as functions of cavity decay rates, excitation parameter and detuning. The dependence of self- and mutual correlations of beam amplitudes and phases on detuning, mismatch and damping parameters is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0112078
title: Strain effects on silicon donor exchange: Quantum computer architecture considerations
authors: Belita Koiller, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 66, 115201 (2002).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112078
abstract: Proposed Silicon-based quantum computer architectures have attracted attention because of their promise for scalability and their potential for synergetically utilizing the available resources associated with the existing infrastructure of the powerful Si technology. Quantitative understanding of and precise physical control over donor (e.g. Phosphorus) exchange are crucial elements in the physics underlying the proposed Si-based quantum computer hardware. An important potential problem in this context is that inter-valley interference originating from the degeneracy in the Si conduction band edge causes fast oscillations in donor exchange coupling, which imposes significant constraints on the Si quantum computer architecture. In this paper we consider the effect of external strain on Si donor exchange in the context of quantum computer hardware. We study donor electron exchange in uniaxially strained Si, since strain partially lifts the valley degeneracy in the bulk. In particular, we focus on the effects of donor displacements among lattice sites on the exchange coupling, investigating whether inter-valley interference poses less of a problem to exchange coupling of donors in strained Si. We show, using the Kohn-Luttinger envelope function approach, that fast oscillations in exchange coupling indeed disappear for donor pairs that satisfy certain conditions for their relative positions, while in other situations the donor exchange coupling remains oscillatory, with periods close to interatomic spacing. We also comment on the possible role of controlled external strain in the design and fabrication of Si quantum computer architecture.

id: cond-mat/0112094
title: Bell inequalities and entanglement in solid state devices
authors: Nikolai M. Chtchelkatchev, Gianni Blatter, Gordey B. Lesovik, Thierry Martin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review B vol. 66, 161320(R) (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112094
abstract: Bell-inequality checks constitute a probe of entanglement -- given a source of entangled particles, their violation are a signature of the non-local nature of quantum mechanics. Here, we study a solid state device producing pairs of entangled electrons, a superconductor emitting Cooper pairs properly split into the two arms of a normal-metallic fork with the help of appropriate filters. We formulate Bell-type inequalities in terms of current-current cross-correlators, the natural quantities measured in mesoscopic physics; their violation provides evidence that this device indeed is a source of entangled electrons.

id: cond-mat/0112153
title: Dephasing via stochastic absorption: A case study in Aharonov-Bohm oscillations
authors: Colin Benjamin, A. M. Jayannavar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures Minor corrections made and journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 65, 153309 (2002).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112153
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm ring has been the mainstay of mesoscopic physics research since its inception. In this paper we have dwelt on the problem of dephasing of AB oscillations using a phenomenological model based on stochastic absorption. To calculate the conductance in the presence of inelastic scattering we have used the method due to Brouwer and Beenakker. We have shown that conductance is symmetric under flux reversal and visibility of AB oscillations decay to zero as a function of the incoherence parameter thus signalling dephasing in the system. Some comments are made on the relative merits of stochastic absorption with respect to optical potential model, which have been used to mimic dephasing.

id: cond-mat/0112253
title: Dephasing by two-level systems at zero temperature by unitary evolution
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Final version accepted by Physica E
journal: Physica E15 (2002) 252-260
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112253
abstract: We analyze the unitary time evolution of a conduction electron, described by a two-level system, interacting with two-level systems (spins) through a spin-spin interaction and prove that coherent spin states of the conduction electron are obtained in the strong coupling regime, when the number of the spins is taken to be, formally, infinitely large (thermodynamic limit). This model describes a spin interacting with a spin-bath in a strong coupling regime and gives a dephasing time at zero temperature that agrees with the recent experimental results for quantum dots. Dephasing is proved to occur as the conduction electron oscillates between the two states with frequency going to infinity in the thermodynamic limit, that is, increasing the number of spins. Then, it is shown that the only meaning that can be attached to such oscillations with infinite frequency is by an average in time, eliminating the off-diagonal terms of the density matrix. This model is in agreement with a recent proposal of appearance of classical states in quantum mechanics due to the large number of components of a quantum system, if properly prepared for the states of each component part. The strong coupling study of the model is accomplished through the principle of duality as recently introduced in perturbation theory [M.Frasca, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 58}, 3439 (1998)].

id: cond-mat/0112276
title: Motional rotating wave approximation for harmonically trapped particles
authors: ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 7 figures, in press at PRA
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112276
abstract: We present a family of generalized unitary transformations that simplifies the Hamiltonian for a harmonically trapped two level atom (or ion) interacting with a plane wave laser field. Novel near resonant single as well as double vibrational phonon dynamical regimes are found. The validity condition of the often used motional rotating wave approximation (MRWA) is examined both numerically and analytically. Large errors are found within typical regimes of MRWA with respect to the motional degrees of freedom. The effects of MRWA in trapped ion systems are shown to be opposite to that of the rotating wave approximation (RWA) in the usual Jaynes-Cummings model. Our study points to a more restrictive condition on particle localization (Lamb-Dicke) parameter for the validity of MRWA in the single phonon dynamical regime. It also sheds new light on quantum information storage and processing with trapped atoms.

id: cond-mat/0112315
title: Continuous quantum measurement of a Bose-Einstein condensate: a stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Jacek Dziarmaga, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 053604 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112315
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate undergoing a continuous dispersive imaging by using a Lindblad operator formalism. Continuous strong measurements drive the condensate out of the coherent state description assumed within the Gross-Pitaevskii mean-field approach. Continuous weak measurements allow instead to replace, for timescales short enough, the exact problem with its mean-field approximation through a stochastic analogue of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. The latter is used to show the unwinding of a dark soliton undergoing a continuous imaging.

id: cond-mat/0112363
title: Quantum phases of dipolar bosons in optical lattices
authors: K. Goral, L. Santos, M. Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 4 eps figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 170406 (2002)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112363
abstract: The ground state of dipolar bosons placed in an optical lattice is analyzed. We show that the modification of experimentally accessible parameters can lead to the realization and control of different quantum phases, including superfluid, supersolid, Mott insulator, checkerboard, and collapse phases.

id: cond-mat/0112403
title: Entanglement and decoherence of a micromechanical resonator via coupling to a Cooper box
authors: A. D. Armour, M. P. Blencowe, K. C. Schwab
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 148301 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112403
abstract: We analyse the quantum dynamics of a micromechanical resonator capacitively coupled to a Cooper box. With appropriate quantum state control of the Cooper box, the resonator can be driven into a superposition of spatially separated states. The Cooper box can also be used to probe the environmentally-induced decoherence of the resonator superposition state.

id: cond-mat/0112407
title: Theory of single spin detection with STM
authors: A.V. Balatsky, I. Martin
comments: Discussion of the back-action and few new referencies added; 5 pages latex file, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112407
abstract: We propose a mechanism for detection of a single spin center on a non-magnetic substrate. In the detection scheme, the STM tunnel current is correlated with the spin orientation. In the presence of magnetic field, the spin precesses and the tunnel current is modulated at the Larmor frequency. The mechanism relies on the effective spin-orbit interaction between the injected unpolarized STM current and the local spin center, which leads to the nodal structure of the spatial signal profile. Based on the proposed mechanism, the strongest spin-related signal can be expected for the systems with large spin-orbit coupling and low carrier concentration.

id: cond-mat/0112439
title: On the Emergence of the Microcanonical Description from a Pure State
authors: N. D. Hari Dass, S. Kalyana Rama, B. Sathiapalan
comments: 58 pages, 2 figures. A reference added
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A18 (2003) 2947-2994
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112439
abstract: We study, in general terms, the process by which a pure state can ``self-thermalize'' and {\em appear} to be described by a microcanonical density matrix. This requires a quantum mechanical version of the Gibbsian coarse graining that conceptually underlies classical statistical mechanics. We introduce some extra degrees of freedom that are necessary for this. Interaction between these degrees and the system can be understood as a process of resonant absorption and emission of ``soft quanta''. This intuitive picture allows one to state a criterion for when self thermalization occurs. This paradigm also provides a method for calculating the thermalization rate using the usual formalism of atomic physics for calculating decay rates. We contrast our prescription for coarse graining, which is somewhat dynamical, with the earlier approaches that are intrinsically kinematical. An important motivation for this study is the black hole information paradox.

id: cond-mat/0112499
title: Wave attenuation to clock sojourn times
authors: Colin Benjamin, A. M. Jayannavar
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Minor corrections made and journal reference added
journal: Solid State Commun. 121, 591, (2002).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0112499
abstract: The subject of time in quantum mechanics is of perennial interest especially because there is no observable for the time taken by a particle to transmit (or reflect) from a particular region. Several methods have been proposed based on scattering phase shifts and using different quantum clocks, where the time taken is clocked by some external input or indirectly from the phase of the scattering amplitudes. In this work we give a general method for calculating conditional sojourn times based on wave attenuation. In this approach clock mechanism does not couple to the Hamiltonian of the system. For simplicity, specific case of a delta dimer is considered in detail. Our analysis re-affirms recent results based on correcting quantum clocks using optical potential methods, albeit in a much simpler way.

id: cs/0112023
title: Lower Bound on the Chromatic Number by Spectra of Weighted Adjacency Matrices
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0112023
abstract: A lower bound on the chromatic number of a graph is derived by majorization of spectra of weighted adjacency matrices. These matrices are given by Hadamard products of the adjacency matrix and arbitrary Hermitian matrices.

id: gr-qc/0112053
title: Metric and Curvature in Gravitational Phase Space
authors: Glenn Watson, John R. Klauder
comments: LaTeX, 11 pages, no figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 19 (2002) 3617
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0112053
abstract: At a fixed point in spacetime (say, x_0), gravitational phase space consists of the space of symmetric matrices F^{ab} [corresponding to the canonical momentum pi^{ab}(x_0) and of symmetric matrices {G_{ab}}[corresponding to the canonical metric g_{ab}(x_0), where 1 \leq a,b \leq n, and, crucially, the matrix {G_{ab}} is necessarily positive definite, i.e. \sum u^a G_{ab}u^b > 0 whenever \sum (u^a)^2 > 0. In an alternative quantization procedure known as Metrical Quantization, the first and most important ingredient is the specification of a suitable metric on classical phase space. Our choice of phase space metrics, guided by a recent study of Affine Quantum Gravity, leads to gravitational phase space geometries which possess constant scalar curvature and may be regarded as higher dimensional analogs of the Poincare plane, which applies when n=1. This result is important because phase spaces endowed with such symmetry lead naturally via the procedures of Metrical Quantization to acceptable Hilbert spaces of high dimension.

id: gr-qc/0112055
title: Vacuum polarization on the spinning circle
authors: V. A. De Lorenci, E. S. Moreira, Jr.
comments: 3 pages, no figures, REVTeX4, published version
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 107503
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0112055
abstract: Vacuum polarization of a massive scalar field in the background of a two-dimensional version of a spinning cosmic string is investigated. It is shown that when the `radius of the universe' is such that spacetime is globally hyperbolic the vacuum fluctuations are well behaved, diverging though on the `chronology horizon'. Naive use of the formulae when spacetime is nonglobally hyperbolic leads to unphysical results. It is also pointed out that the set of normal modes used previously in the literature to address the problem gives rise to two-point functions which do not have a Hadamard form, and therefore are not physically acceptable. Such normal modes correspond to a locally (but not globally) Minkowski time, which appears to be at first sight a natural choice of time to implement quantization.

id: hep-ph/0112249
title: High-energy neutrino oscillations in absorbing matter
authors: Vadim A. Naumov
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures, elsart preprint class. Final version accepted for publication in PLB
journal: Phys.Lett. B529 (2002) 199-211
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0112249
abstract: The impact of neutrino mixing, refraction and absorption on high-energy neutrino propagation through a thick medium is studied using the MSW evolution equation with complex indices of refraction. It is found that, owing to the mixing with sterile neutrinos, the penetrability of active neutrinos may be many orders of magnitude larger than it would be in the absence of mixing. The effect is highly sensitive to changes in density and composition of the matter background as well as to neutrino energy and mixing parameters. This may lead to observational consequences in neutrino astrophysics.

id: hep-ph/0112291
title: Dynamical symmetry breaking of massless $¦Ë¦Õ^4$ and renormalization scheme dependence
authors: J.-F. Yang
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0112291
abstract: Through two loop effective potential we demonstrate that the $\bar{MS}$ scheme of dimensional regularization and Jackiw's prescription in cut-off regularization allow for the dynamical breaking solution in massless $\lambda\phi^4$ theory, while the Coleman-Weinberg prescription does not. The beta function of the broken phase is negative, like in the one loop effective potential, but the UV fixed point is not zero, i.e., not an asymptotic freedom solution, unlike the one loop case. Some related issues were briefly discussed.

id: hep-th/0112011
title: A toy model of bosonic non-canonical quantum field
authors: Marek Czachor, Monika Syty
comments: revtex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112011
abstract: A harmonic oscillator is an indefinite-frequency one if the parameter $\omega$ is replaced by an operator. An ensemble of $N$ such oscillators may be regarded as a toy model of a bosonic quantum field. All the possible frequencies associated with a given problem are present already in a single oscillator and $N$ can be finite. Due to the operator character of $\omega$ the resulting algebra of creation-annihilation operators is non-canonical. In the limit of large $N$ one recovers perturbation theory formulas of the canonical quantum field theory but with form factors automatically built in. Vacuum energy of the ensemble is finite, a fact discussed in the context of the cosmological constant problem. Space of states is given by a vector bundle with Fock-type fibers. Interactions of the field with 2-level systems, including Rabi oscillations and spontaneous emission, are discussed in detail.

id: hep-th/0112049
title: Deformation Quantization of Geometric Quantum Mechanics
authors: H. Garcia-Compean, J.F. Plebanski, M. Przanowski, F.J. Turrubiates
comments: 27+1 pages, harvmac file, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A35:4301-4320,2002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112049
abstract: Second quantization of a classical nonrelativistic one-particle system as a deformation quantization of the Schrodinger spinless field is considered. Under the assumption that the phase space of the Schrodinger field is $C^{\infty}$, both, the Weyl-Wigner-Moyal and Berezin deformation quantizations are discussed and compared. Then the geometric quantum mechanics is also quantized using the Berezin method under the assumption that the phase space is $CP^{\infty}$ endowed with the Fubini-Study Kahlerian metric. Finally, the Wigner function for an arbitrary particle state and its evolution equation are obtained. As is shown this new "second quantization" leads to essentially different results than the former one. For instance, each state is an eigenstate of the total number particle operator and the corresponding eigenvalue is always ${1 \over \hbar}$.

id: hep-th/0112062
title: Quantum Gauge Theory of Gravity
authors: Ning Wu
comments: 14 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112062
abstract: The quantum gravity is formulated based on principle of local gauge invariance. The model discussed in this paper has local gravitational gauge symmetry and gravitational field is represented by gauge field. In leading order approximation, it gives out classical Newton's theory of gravity. It can also give out Einstein's field equation with cosmological constant. For classical tests, it gives out the same theoretical predictions as those of general relativity. This quantum gauge theory of gravity is a renormalizable quantum theory.

id: hep-th/0112069
title: On a Z_3-Graded Generalization of the Witten Index
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Accepted for publication in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B624 (2002) 500-508
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112069
abstract: We construct a realization of the algebra of the Z_3-graded topological symmetry of type (1,1,1) in terms of a pair of operators D_1: H_1 -> H_2, and D_2: H_2 -> H_3 satisfying [D_1D_1^\dagger,D_2^\dagger D_2]=0. We show that the sequence of the restriction of these operators to the zero-energy subspace forms a complex and establish the equality of the corresponding topological invariants with the analytic indices of these operators.

id: hep-th/0112125
title: Nonlinear Supersymmetry
authors: Sergey M. Klishevich, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 14 pages. In: Proceedings of the Fourth Intern. Conference ``Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (9-15 July, 2001, Kyiv), Editors A. G. Nikitin, V. M. Boyko and R. O. Popovych, Kyiv, Inst. of Mathematics, 2002, V.43, Part 2, pp. 508--519
journal: EconfC0107094:508-519,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112125
abstract: After a short discussion of the intimate relation between the generalized statistics and supersymmetry, we review the recent results on the nonlinear supersymmetry obtained in the context of the quantum anomaly problem and of the universal algebraic construction associated with the holomorphic nonlinear supersymmetry.

id: hep-th/0112158
title: Nonlinear holomorphic supersymmetry, Dolan-Grady relations and Onsager algebra
authors: Sergey M. Klishevich, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 18 pages, refs updated; to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B628 (2002) 217-233
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112158
abstract: Recently, it was noticed by us that the nonlinear holomorphic supersymmetry of order $n\in\N, n>1$, ($n$-HSUSY) has an algebraic origin. We show that the Onsager algebra underlies $n$-HSUSY and investigate the structure of the former in the context of the latter. A new infinite set of mutually commuting charges is found which, unlike those from the Dolan-Grady set, include the terms quadratic in the Onsager algebra generators. This allows us to find the general form of the superalgebra of $n$-HSUSY and fix it explicitly for the cases of $n=2,3,4,5,6$. The similar results are obtained for a new, contracted form of the Onsager algebra generated via the contracted Dolan-Grady relations. As an application, the algebraic structure of the known 1D and 2D systems with $n$-HSUSY is clarified and a generalization of the construction to the case of nonlinear pseudo-supersymmetry is proposed. Such a generalization is discussed in application to some integrable spin models and with its help we obtain a family of quasi-exactly solvable systems appearing in the $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: hep-th/0112179
title: Dirac-like Monopoles in Three Dimensions and Their Possible Influences on the Dynamics of Particles
authors: E.M.C. Abreu, J.A. Helayel-Neto, M. Hott, W.A. Moura-Melo
comments: 20 pages. Latex format. No figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D65 (2002) 085024
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112179
abstract: Dirac-like monopoles are studied in three-dimensional Abelian Maxwell and Maxwell-Chern-Simons models. Their scalar nature is highlighted and discussed through a dimensional reduction of four-dimensional electrodynamics with electric and magnetic sources. Some general properties and similarities of them when are considered in Minkowski or Euclidian space are mentioned. However, by virtue of the structure of the space-time in which they are considered a number of differences among them take place. Furthermore, we pay attention to some consequences of these objects when acting upon usual particles. Among other subjects, special attention is given to the study of a Lorentz-violating non-minimal coupling between neutral fermions and the field generated by a monopole alone. In addition, an analogue of the Aharonov-Casher effect is discussed in this framework.

id: hep-th/0112263
title: Geometric (pre)quantization in the polysymplectic approach to field theory
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX. V2: minor corrections, important Note added in proofs, references detailed
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0112263
abstract: The prequantization map for a Poisson-Gerstenhaber algebra of dynamical variables represented by differential forms within the polysymplectic formulation of the De Donder--Weyl covariant Hamiltonian field theory is presented and the corresponding prequantum Schroedinger equation for a non-homogeneous form valued wave function is derived. This is the first step toward understanding the procedures of covariant precanonical field quantization from the point of view of geometric quantization.

id: math-ph/0112002
title: Linear Superposition in Nonlinear Equations
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 244101
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112002
abstract: Even though the KdV and modified KdV equations are nonlinear, we show that suitable linear combinations of known periodic solutions involving Jacobi elliptic functions yield a large class of additional solutions. This procedure works by virtue of some remarkable new identities satisfied by the elliptic functions.

id: math-ph/0112019
title: Pole structure of the Hamiltonian $¦Æ$-function for a singular potential
authors: H. Falomir, P. A. G. Pisani, A. Wipf
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX. References added. Version to appear in Jour. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys.A35:5427-5444,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112019
abstract: We study the pole structure of the $\zeta$-function associated to the Hamiltonian $H$ of a quantum mechanical particle living in the half-line $\mathbf{R}^+$, subject to the singular potential $g x^{-2}+x^2$. We show that $H$ admits nontrivial self-adjoint extensions (SAE) in a given range of values of the parameter $g$. The $\zeta$-functions of these operators present poles which depend on $g$ and, in general, do not coincide with half an integer (they can even be irrational). The corresponding residues depend on the SAE considered.

id: math-ph/0112049
title: Notes on Weyl-Clifford algebras
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 17 pages, 10pt LaTeXe; v2 corrected disappointing typos (swap p,q)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112049
abstract: Here is discussed generalization of Clifford algebras, l^n-dimensional Weyl-Clifford algebras T(n,l) with n generators t_k satisfying equation $(\sum_{k=1}^n a_k t_k)^l = \sum_{k=1}^n a_k^l$. It is originated from two basic and well known constructions: representation of Clifford algebras via tensor products of Pauli matrices together with extension for l > 2 using Weyl commutation relations. Presentation of such general topics here may not pretend to entire originality or completeness and it is rather a preliminary excursus into this very broad and interesting area of research.

id: math-ph/0112050
title: Heat kernel-zeta function relationship coming from the classical moment problem
authors: M. Tierz, E.Elizalde
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112050
abstract: By using ideas and strong results borrowed from the classical moment problem, we show how -under very general conditions- a discrete number of values of the spectral zeta function (associated generically with a non-decreasing sequence of numbers, and not necessarily with an operator) yields all the moments corresponding to the density of states, as well as those of the partition function of the sequence (the two basic quantities that are always considered in a quantum mechanical context). This goes beyond the well known expression of the small-t asymptotic expansion of the heat kernel of an operator in terms of zeta function values. The precise result for a given situation depends dramatically on the singularity structure of the zeta function. The different specific situations that can appear are discussed in detail, using seminal results from the zeta function literature. Attention is paid to formulations involving zeta functions with a non-standard pole structure (as those arising in noncommutative theories and others). Finally, some misuses of the classical moment problem are pointed out.

id: math-ph/0112054
title: Geometric Phases of the Uhlmann and Sjoqvist et al Types for O(3)-Orbits of n-Level Gibbsian Density Matrices
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 61 pages, LaTeX, 105 (compressed) encapsulated postscript MATHEMATICA figures. This is a greatly expanded and enhanced version, now incorporating analyses of the Sjoqvist et al geometric phases for mixed states to accompany those of the Uhlmann geometric phases, as well as analyses of higher-order Uhlmann holonomy invariants et al
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112054
abstract: We accept the implicit challenge of A. Uhlmann in his 1994 paper, "Parallel Lifts and Holonomy along Density Operators: Computable Examples Using O(3)-Orbits," by, in fact, computing the holonomy invariants for rotations of certain n-level Gibbsian density matrices (n = 2,...,11). From these, we derive, by the tracing operation, the associated geometric phases and visibilities, which we analyze and display. We then proceed analogously, implementing the alternative methodology presented by E. Sjoqvist et al in their letter, "Geometric Phases for Mixed States in Interferometry" (Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 [2000]). For the Uhlmann case, we are able to also compute several higher-order invariants. We compare the various geometric phases and visibilities for different values of n, and also directly compare the two forms of analysis. By setting one parameter (a) in the Uhlmann analysis to zero, we find that the so-reduced form of the first-order holonomy invariant is simply equal to (-1)^{n+1} times the holonomy invariant in the Sj\"oqvist et al method. Additional phenomena of interest are reported too.

id: math-ph/0112059
title: Meeting Descartes and Klein Somewhere in a Noncommutative Space
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX 25p, amsproc style, 5 PS pics
journal: Highlights of Mathematical Physics (A.~Fokas et al, eds.), AMS, 2002, pp. 165--189.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112059
abstract: We combine the coordinate method and Erlangen program in the framework of noncommutative geometry through an investigation of symmetries of noncommutative coordinate algebras. As the model we use the coherent states construction and the wavelet transform in functional spaces. New examples are a three dimensional spectrum of a non-normal matrix and a quantisation procedure from symplectomorphisms. Keywords: Heisenberg group, special linear group, symplectic group, Hardy space, Segal-Bargmann space, Clifford algebra, Cauchy-Riemann-Dirac operator, M\"obius transformations, functional calculus, Weyl calculus (quantization), quantum mechanics, Schr\"odinger representation, metaplectic representation.

id: math-ph/0112060
title: Connection between type B (or C) and F factorizations and construction of algebras
authors: A. Del Sol Mesa, C. Quesne
comments: minor changes, 1 additional reference, final form to be published in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 2857-2865
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0112060
abstract: In a recent paper (Del Sol Mesa A and Quesne C 2000 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 33 4059), we started a systematic study of the connections among different factorization types, suggested by Infeld and Hull, and of their consequences for the construction of algebras. We devised a general procedure for constructing satellite algebras for all the Hamiltonians admitting a type E factorization by using the relationship between type A and E factorizations. Here we complete our analysis by showing that for Hamiltonians admitting a type F factorization, a similar method, starting from either type B or type C ones, leads to other types of algebras. We therefore conclude that the existence of satellite algebras is a characteristic property of type E factorizable Hamiltonians. Our results are illustrated with the detailed discussion of the Coulomb problem.

id: nlin/0112015
title: Measuring the Lyapunov exponent using quantum mechanics
authors: F. M. Cucchietti, C. H. Lewenkopf, E. R. Mucciolo, H. M. Pastawski, R. O. Vallejos
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0112015
abstract: We study the time evolution of two wave packets prepared at the same initial state, but evolving under slightly different Hamiltonians. For chaotic systems, we determine the circumstances that lead to an exponential decay with time of the wave packet overlap function. We show that for sufficiently weak perturbations, the exponential decay follows a Fermi golden rule, while by making the difference between the two Hamiltonians larger, the characteristic exponential decay time becomes the Lyapunov exponent of the classical system. We illustrate our theoretical findings by investigating numerically the overlap decay function of a two-dimensional dynamical system.

id: nlin/0112042
title: Moments of generalized Husimi distributions and complexity of many-body quantum states
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: published version, 33 pages, 7 figres
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 9081-9103
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0112042
abstract: We consider generalized Husimi distributions for many-body systems, and show that their moments are good measures of complexity of many-body quantum states. Our construction of the Husimi distribution is based on the coherent state of the single-particle transformation group. Then the coherent states are independent-particle states, and, at the same time, the most localized states in the Husimi representation. Therefore delocalization of the Husimi distribution, which can be measured by the moments, is a sign of many-body correlation (entanglement). Since the delocalization of the Husimi distribution is also related to chaoticity of the dynamics, it suggests a relation between entanglement and chaos. Our definition of the Husimi distribution can be applied not only to the systems of distinguishable particles, but also to those of identical particles, i.e., fermions and bosons. We derive an algebraic formula to evaluate the moments of the Husimi distribution.

id: physics/0112016
title: J-matrix method of scattering in any L2 basis
authors: H. A. Yamani, A. D. Alhaidari, M. S. Abdelmonem
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 042703 (2001)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0112016
abstract: The restriction imposed on the J-matrix method of using specific L2 bases is lifted without compromising any of the advantages that it offers. This opens the door to a wider range of application of the method to physical problems beyond the restrictive SO(2,1) dynamical symmetry. The numerical scheme developed to achieve this objective projects the J-matrix formalism in terms of the eigenvalues of a finite Hamiltonian matrix and its submatrices in any convenient L2 basis. Numerical stability and convergence of the original analytic J-matrix method is still maintained in the proposed scheme, which can be applied to multi-channel nonrelativistic as well as relativistic scattering problems.

id: physics/0112044
title: Quantum Multiple Scattering: Eigenmode Expansion and Its Applications to Proximity Resonance
authors: Sheng Li, Eric J. Heller
comments: Accepted by PRA. Research is underway currently to apply this method to superradiance
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0112044
abstract: We show that for a general system of N s-wave point scatterers, there are always N eigenmodes. These eigenmodes or eigenchannels play the same role as spherical harmonics for a spherically symmetric target--they give a phase shift only. In other words, the T matrix of the system is of rank N and the eigenmodes are eigenvectors corresponding to non-0 eigenvalues of the T matrix. The eigenmode expansion approach can give insight to the total scattering cross section; the position, width, and superradiant or subradiant nature of resonance peaks; the unsymmetric Fano lineshape of sharp proximity resonance peaks based on the high energy tail of a broad band; and other properties. Off-resonant eigenmodes for identical proximate scatterers are approximately angular momentum eigenstates.

id: physics/0112082
title: Quantum approach to the halo formation in high current beams
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan, Modesto PUSTERLA
comments: LaTeX2e, 4 pages, Nucl. Instrum. Methods. A 464 (2001) 461-464. this http URL and this http URL
journal: Nucl.Instrum.Meth. A464 (2001) 461-464
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0112082
abstract: An interpretation of the formation of halo in accelerators based on quantum-like theory by a diffraction model is given in terms of the transversal beam motion. Physical implications of the longitudinal dynamics are also examined

id: physics/0112085
title: Quantum mechanical formalism of particle beam optics
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan
comments: ReVTeX 06 pages, in Proc. of the 18th Advanced ICFA Beam Dynamics Workshop on Quantum Aspects of Beam Physics (QABP) (15-20 October 2000, Capri, ITALY) Editor: Pisin Chen (World Scientific, Singapore, 2002) this http URL and this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0112085
abstract: A general procedure for construction of the formalism of quantum beam optics for any particle is reviewed. The quantum formalism of spin-1/2 particle beam optics is presented starting {\em ab initio} with the Dirac equation. As an example of application the case of normal magnetic quadrupole lens is discussed. In the classical limit the quantum formalism leads to the well-known Lie algebraic formalism of classical particle beam optics.

id: physics/0112086
title: The world of synchrotrons
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan
comments: ReVTeX, 07 pages, in Resonance, 6, No. 11, pp. 77-86 (November 2001). this http URL and this http URL
journal: Resonance J.Sci.Educ.6N11:77-86,2001
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0112086
abstract: A summary of results on synchrotron radiation is presented along with notes on its properties and applications. Quantum aspects are briefly mentioned. Synchrotron radiation facilities are described briefly with a detailed coverage to the accelerator programmes in India. The relocated and other upcoming synchrotrons are also described in some detail.

