id: quant-ph/0205001
title: Power series Schrodinger eigenfunctions for a particle on the torus
authors: M. Encinosa, B. Etemadi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205001
abstract: The eigenvalues and a series representation of the eigenfunctions of the Schrodinger equation for a particle on the surface of a torus are derived.

id: quant-ph/0205002
title: Nonperturbative renormalization-group approach for quantum dissipative systems
authors: Ken-Ichi Aoki, Atsushi Horikoshi
comments: ReVTeX 10 pages, 10 eps figures; final version
journal: Phys.Rev. A66 (2002) 042105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205002
abstract: We analyze the dissipative quantum tunneling in the Caldeira-Leggett model by the nonperturbative renormalization-group method. We classify the dissipation effects by introducing the notion of effective cutoffs. We calculate the localization susceptibility to evaluate the critical dissipation for the quantum-classical transition. Our results are consistent with previous semiclassical arguments, but give considerably larger critical dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0205003
title: PT-symmetric square well and the associated SUSY hierarchies
authors: B. Bagchi, S. Mallik, C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX, 18 pages, no figure; broken PT-symmetry case added (Sec. 6)
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A17 (2002) 1651-1664
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205003
abstract: The PT-symmetric square well problem is considered in a SUSY framework. When the coupling strength $Z$ lies below the critical value $Z_0^{\rm (crit)}$ where PT symmetry becomes spontaneously broken, we find a hierarchy of SUSY partner potentials, depicting an unbroken SUSY situation and reducing to the family of $\sec^2$-like potentials in the $Z \to 0$ limit. For $Z$ above $Z_0^{\rm (crit)}$, there is a rich diversity of SUSY hierarchies, including some with PT-symmetry breaking and some with partial PT-symmetry restoration.

id: quant-ph/0205004
title: Quantum orders in an exact soluble model
authors: Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX4, More materials on topological/quantum orders and quantum computing can be found in this http URL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.90:016803,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205004
abstract: We find all the exact eigenstates and eigenvalues of a spin-1/2 model on square lattice: $H=16g \sum_i S^y_i S^x_{i+x} S^y_{i+x+y} S^x_{i+y}$. We show that the ground states for $g<0$ and $g>0$ have different quantum orders described by Z2A and Z2B projective symmetry groups. The phase transition at $g=0$ represents a new kind of phase transitions that changes quantum orders but not symmetry. Both the Z2A and Z2B states are described by $Z_2$ lattice gauge theories at low energies. They have robust topologically degenerate ground states and gapless edge excitations.

id: quant-ph/0205005
title: Three-dimensional theory for interaction between atomic ensembles and free-space light
authors: L.-M. Duan, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 023818 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205005
abstract: Atomic ensembles have shown to be a promising candidate for implementations of quantum information processing by many recently-discovered schemes. All these schemes are based on the interaction between optical beams and atomic ensembles. For description of these interactions, one assumed either a cavity-QED model or a one-dimensional light propagation model, which is still inadequate for a full prediction and understanding of most of the current experimental efforts which are actually taken in the three-dimensional free space. Here, we propose a perturbative theory to describe the three-dimensional effects in interaction between atomic ensembles and free-space light with a level configuration important for several applications. The calculations reveal some significant effects which are not known before from the other approaches, such as the inherent mode-mismatching noise and the optimal mode-matching conditions. The three-dimensional theory confirms the collective enhancement of the signal-to-noise ratio which is believed to be one of the main advantage of the ensemble-based quantum information processing schemes, however, it also shows that this enhancement need to be understood in a more subtle way with an appropriate mode matching method.

id: quant-ph/0205006
title: Exact Quantum-Statistical Dynamics of Time-Dependent Generalized Oscillators
authors: Sang Pyo Kim, Don N. Page
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205006
abstract: Using linear invariant operators in a constructive way we find the most general thermal density operator and Wigner function for time-dependent generalized oscillators. The general Wigner function has five free parameters and describes the thermal Wigner function about a classical trajectory in phase space. The contour of the Wigner function depicts an elliptical orbit with a constant area moving about the classical trajectory, whose eccentricity determines the squeezing of the initial vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0205007
title: Complete positivity and entangled degrees of freedom
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, R. Romano
comments: 23 pages, plain-TeX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A35:4955-4972,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205007
abstract: We study how some recently proposed noncontextuality tests based on quantum interferometry are affected if the test particles propagate as open systems in presence of a gaussian stochastic background. We show that physical consistency requires the resulting markovian dissipative time-evolution to be completely positive.

id: quant-ph/0205008
title: Simulation of Markovian quantum dynamics on quantum logic networks
authors: Matyas Koniorczyk, Vladimir Buzek, Peter Adam, Akos Laszlo
comments: corrected and improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205008
abstract: We study how generators of Markovian dynamics of a qubit can be simulated using a programmable quantum processor.

id: quant-ph/0205009
title: Remote State Preparation without Oblivious Conditions
authors: A. Hayashi, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052302-1 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205009
abstract: In quantum teleportation, neither Alice nor Bob acquires any classical knowledge on teleported states. The teleportation protocol is said to be oblivious to both parties. In remote state preparation (RSP) it is assumed that Alice is given complete classical knowledge on the state that is to be prepared by Bob. Recently, Leung and Shor showed that the same amount of classical information as that in teleportation needs to be transmitted in any exact and deterministic RSP protocol that is oblivious to Bob. We study similar RSP protocols, but not necessarily oblivious to Bob. First it is shown that Bob's quantum operation can be safely assumed to be a unitary transformation. We then derive an equation that is a necessary and sufficient condition for such a protocol to exist. By studying this equation, we show that one qubit RSP requires 2 cbits of classical communication, which is the same amount as in teleportation, even if the protocol is not assumed oblivious to Bob. For higher dimensions, it is still open whether the amount of classical communication can be reduced by abandoning oblivious conditions.

id: quant-ph/0205010
title: On classical models of spin
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: published as Found. Phys. Lett. 3 (1992) 249
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 3 (1992) 249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205010
abstract: The reason for recalling this old paper is the ongoing discussion on the attempts of circumventing certain assumptions leading to the Bell theorem (Hess-Philipp, Accardi). If I correctly understand the intentions of these Authors, the idea is to make use of the following logical loophole inherent in the proof of the Bell theorem: Probabilities of counterfactual events A and A' do not have to coincide with actually measured probabilities if measurements of A and A' disturb each other, or for any other fundamental reason cannot be performed simulaneously. It is generally believed that in the context of classical probability theory (i.e. realistic hidden variables) probabilities of counterfactual events can be identified with those of actually measured events. In the paper I give an explicit counterexample to this belief. The "first variation" on the Aerts model shows that counterfactual and actual problems formulated for the same classical system may be unrelated. In the model the first probability does not violate any classical inequality whereas the second does. Pecularity of the Bell inequality is that on the basis of an in principle unobservable probability one derives probabilities of jointly measurable random variables, the fact additionally obscuring the logical meaning of the construction. The existence of the loophole does not change the fact that I was not able to construct a local model violating the inequality with all the other loopholes eliminated.

id: quant-ph/0205011
title: Non-canonical quantum optics (II): Poincar¨¦ covariant formalism and thermodynamic limit
authors: Marek Czachor, Monika Syty
comments: further generalization of hep-th/0201090, quant-ph/0003091, hep-th/0112011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205011
abstract: The paper contains further development of the idea of field quantization introduced in M. Czachor, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. {\bf 33} (2000) 8081-8103. The formalism is extended to the relativistic domain. The link to the standard theory is obtained via a thermodynamic limit. Unitary representations of the Poincar\'e group at the level of fields and states are explicitly given. Non-canonical multi-photon and coherent states are introduced. In the thermodynamic limit the statistics of photons in a coherent state is Poissonian. The $S$ matrix of radiation fields produced by a classical current is given by a non-canonical coherent-state displacement operator, a fact automatically eliminating the infrared catastrophe. Field operators are shown to be operators and not operator-valued distributions, and can be multiplied at the same point in configuration space. An exactly solvable example is used to compare predictions of the standard theory with those of non-canonical quantum optics, and explicitly shows the mechanism of automatic ultraviolet regularization occuring in the non-canonical theory. Similar conclusions are obtained in perturbation theory, where one finds the standard Feynman diagrams, but the Feynman rules are modified. A comparison with the Dicke-Hepp-Lieb model allows to identify the physical structure behind the non-canonical algebra as corresponding to an ensemble of indefinite-frequency oscillators with constant density $N/V$.

id: quant-ph/0205012
title: Quantum Surveying: How Entangled Pairs Act as Measuring Rods on Manifolds of Generalized Coherent States
authors: Daniel I. Fivel
comments: 14 pages, 0 figures, plain tex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205012
abstract: Generalized coherent states arise from reference states by the action of locally compact transformation groups and thereby form manifolds on which there is an invariant measure. It is shown that this implies the existence of canonically associated Bell states that serve as measuring rods by relating the metric geometry of the manifold to the observed EPR correlations. It is further shown that these correlations can be accounted for by a hidden variable theory which is non-local but invariant under the stability group of the reference state.

id: quant-ph/0205013
title: Bell's Inequalities and the Accardi-Gustafson Inequality
authors: Karl Gustafson
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205013
abstract: Many issues combine for consideration when speaking of Bell's Inequalities: nonlocality, realism, hidden variables, incompatible measures, wave function collapse, other. Each of these issues then may be viewed from several viewpoints: historical, theoretical, physical, experimental, statistical, communicational, cryptographical, and mathematical. From the mathematical viewpoint, much of the Bell theory is ``just geometry''.

id: quant-ph/0205014
title: Teleportation via thermally entangled state of a two-qubit Heisenberg XX chain
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 5 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205014
abstract: We find that quantum teleportation, using the thermally entangled state of two-qubit Heisenberg XX chain as a resource, with fidelity better than any classical communication protocol is possible. However, a thermal state with a greater amount of thermal entanglement does not necessarily yield better fidelity. It depends on the amount of mixing between the separable state and maximally entangled state in the spectra of the two-qubit Heisenberg XX model.

id: quant-ph/0205015
title: Narrowband frequency tunable light source of continuous quadrature entanglement
authors: Christian Schori, Jens L. S?rensen, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205015
abstract: We report the observation of non-classical quantum correlations of continuous light variables from a novel type of source. It is a frequency non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator below threshold, where signal and idler fields are separated by 740MHz corresponding to two free spectrum ranges of the parametric oscillator cavity. The degree of entanglement observed, - 3.8 dB, is the highest to-date for a narrowband tunable source suitable for atomic quantum memory and other applications in atomic physics. Finally we use the latter to visualize the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox.

id: quant-ph/0205016
title: Quantum nonlocality, Bell inequalities and the memory loophole
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Daniel Collins, Lucien Hardy, Adrian Kent, Sandu Popescu
comments: 11 pages; typo corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042111 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205016
abstract: In the analysis of experiments designed to reveal violation of Bell-type inequalities, it is usually assumed that any hidden variables associated with the nth particle pair would be independent of measurement choices and outcomes for the first $(n-1)$ pairs. Models which violate this assumption exploit what we call the {\it memory loophole}. We focus on the strongest type of violation, which uses the {\it 2-sided} memory loophole, in which the hidden variables for pair $n$ can depend on the previous measurement choices and outcomes in both wings of the experiment. We show that the 2-sided memory loophole allows a systematic violation of the CHSH inequality when the data are analysed in the standard way, but cannot produce a violation if a CHSH expression depending linearly on the data is used. In the first case, the maximal CHSH violation becomes small as the number of particle pairs tested becomes large. Hence, although in principle the memory loophole implies a slight flaw in existing analyses of Bell experiments, the data still strongly confirm quantum mechanics against local hidden variables. We consider also a related loophole, the {\it simultaneous measurement loophole}, which applies if all measurements on each side are carried out simultaneously. We show that this can increase the probability of violating the linearised CHSH inequality as well as other Bell-type inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0205017
title: A matrix realignment method for recognizing entanglement
authors: Kai Chen, Ling-An Wu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Improved version with some new results and references, including response to quant-ph/0205054
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.3, No.3 (2003) 193-202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205017
abstract: Motivated by the Kronecker product approximation technique, we have developed a very simple method to assess the inseparability of bipartite quantum systems, which is based on a realigned matrix constructed from the density matrix. For any separable state, the sum of the singular values of the matrix should be less than or equal to 1. This condition provides a very simple, computable necessary criterion for separability, and shows powerful ability to identify most bound entangled states discussed in the literature. As a byproduct of the criterion, we give an estimate for the degree of entanglement of the quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0205018
title: Wigner's Spins, Feynman's Partons, and Their Common Ground
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 12 pages, 3 figs, based on the lectures delivered at the Advanced Study Institute on Symmetries and Spin (Prague, Czech Republic, July 2001)
journal: Czech.J.Phys.52:C433-C444,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205018
abstract: The connection between spin and symmetry was established by Wigner in his 1939 paper on the Poincar\'e group. For a massive particle at rest, the little group is O(3) from which the concept of spin emerges. The little group for a massless particle is isomorphic to the two-dimensional Euclidean group with one rotational and two translational degrees of freedom. The rotational degree corresponds to the helicity, and the translational degrees to the gauge degree of freedom. The question then is whether these two different symmetries can be united. Another hard-pressing problem is Feynman's parton picture which is valid only for hadrons moving with speed close to that of light. While the hadron at rest is believed to be a bound state of quarks, the question arises whether the parton picture is a Lorentz-boosted bound state of quarks. We study these problems within Einstein's framework in which the energy-momentum relations for slow particles and fast particles are two different manifestations one covariant entity.

id: quant-ph/0205019
title: Creation of Entanglement by Interaction with a Common Heat Bath
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: 4 revtex pages, 1 eps figure; replaced with published version; short discussion on entanglement distillation added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 277901-4 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205019
abstract: I show that entanglement between two qubits can be generated if the two qubits interact with a common heat bath in thermal equilibrium, but do not interact directly with each other. In most situations the entanglement is created for a very short time after the interaction with the heat bath is switched on, but depending on system, coupling, and heat bath, the entanglement may persist for arbitrarily long times. This mechanism sheds new light on the creation of entanglement. A particular example of two quantum dots in a closed cavity is discussed, where the heat bath is given by the blackbody radiation.

id: quant-ph/0205020
title: Study of Optimization Problems by Quantum Annealing
authors: Tadashi Kadowaki
comments: Ph.D. thesis, Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 1998, Latex, 99 pages, 74 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205020
abstract: We introduce quantum fluctuations into the simulated annealing process of optimization problems, aiming at faster convergence to the optimal state. The idea is tested by the two models, the transverse Ising model and the traveling salesman problem (TSP). Adding the transverse field to the Ising model is a simple way to introduce quantum fluctuations. The strength of the transverse field is controlled as a function of time similarly to the temperature in the conventional method. TSP can be described by the Ising spin, so that we also apply the same technique to TSP. We directory solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for small-size systems and perform the quantum Monte Carlo simulation for large-size systems. Comparison with the results of the corresponding classical (thermal) method reveals that the quantum method leads to the ground state with much larger probability in almost all cases if we use the same annealing schedule of the control parameters. We also find that the relaxation time is quite short for quantum systems by numerical simulations. We consider this is one of the reasons why the annealing in quantum systems have a better performance of finding the optimal state in comparison with classical systems.

id: quant-ph/0205021
title: Entanglement entropy of multipartite pure states
authors: Sergei Bravyi
comments: 7 pages, REVTeX, corrected some typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012313 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205021
abstract: Consider a system consisting of $n$ $d$-dimensional quantum particles and arbitrary pure state $\Psi$ of the whole system. Suppose we simultaneously perform complete von Neumann measurements on each particle. One can ask: what is the minimal possible value $S[\Psi]$ of the entropy of outcomes joint probability distribution? We show that $S[\Psi]$ coincides with entanglement entropy for bipartite states. We compute $S[\Psi]$ for two sample multipartite states: the hexacode state ($n=6, d=2$) and determinant states ($n=d$). The generalization of determinant states to the case $d<n$ is considered.

id: quant-ph/0205022
title: Comment on Hess-Philipp anti-Bell and Gill-Weihs-Zeilinger-Zukowski anti-Hess-Philipp arguments
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205022
abstract: We present comparative analysis of Gill-Weihs-Zeilinger-Zukowski arguments directed against Hess-Philipp anti-Bell arguments. In general we support Hess-Philipp viewpoint to the sequence of measurements in the EPR-Bohm experiments as stochastic time-like process. On the other hand, we support Gill-Weihs-Zeilinger-Zukowski arguments against the use of time-like correlations as the factor blocking the derivation of Bell-type inequalities. We presented our own time-analysis of measurements in the EPR-Bohm experiments based on the frequency approach to probability. Our analysis gives strong arguments in favour of local realism. Moreover, our frequency analysis supports the original EPR-idea that quantum mechnaics is not complete.

id: quant-ph/0205023
title: Statistics of dressed modes in a thermal state
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Stephen A. Fulling, Mark D. Pilloff
comments: to appear in Optics Communications, 10 pages
journal: Optics Communications, vol. 208, 2002, pp. 139-144
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205023
abstract: By a Wigner-function calculation, we evaluate the trace of a certain Gaussian operator arising in the theory of a boson system subject to both finite temperature and (weak) interaction. Thereby we rederive (and generalize) a recent result by Kocharovsky, Kocharovsky, and Scully [Phys. Rev. A, vol. 61, art. 053606 (2000)] in a way that is technically much simpler. One step uses a special case of the response of Wigner functions to linear transformations, and we demonstrate the general case by simple means. As an application we extract the counting statistics for each mode of the Bose gas.

id: quant-ph/0205024
title: Quantum Measurement Problem, Decoherence, and Quantum Systems Selfdescription
authors: S. Mayburov
comments: Latex, 14 pages, Talk given at 'Quantum Structures' Conference, Cesena, 2001, to appear in proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205024
abstract: Quantum Measurements regarded in Systems Selfdescription framework for measuring system (MS) consist of measured state S environment E and observer $O$ processing input S signal. $O$ regarded as quantum object which interaction with S,E obeys to Schrodinger equation (SE) and from it and Breuer selfdescription formalism S information for $O$ reconstructed. In particular S state collapse obtained if $O$ selfdescription state has the dual structure $L_T=\cal H \bigotimes L_V$ where $\cal H$ is Hilbert space of MS states $\Psi_{MS}$. $\cal L_V$ is the set with elements $V^O=|O_j> < O_j|$ describing random 'pointer' outcomes $O_j$ observed by $O$ in the individual events. The 'preferred' basis $|O_j>$ defined by $O$ state decoherence via $O$ - E interactions. Zurek's Existential Interpretation discussed in selfmeasurement framework.

id: quant-ph/0205025
title: Entanglement Properties of the Harmonic Chain
authors: K. Audenaert, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, R.F. Werner
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures, minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042327 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205025
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of a closed chain of harmonic oscillators that are coupled via a translationally invariant Hamiltonian, where the coupling acts only on the position operators. We consider the ground state and thermal states of this system, which are Gaussian states. The entanglement properties of these states can be completely characterized analytically when one uses the logarithmic negativity as a measure of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0205026
title: Optimal scheme for estimating a pure qubit state via local measurements
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: Version to appear in PRL (minor changes, title changed)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 277904 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205026
abstract: We present the optimal scheme for estimating a pure qubit state by means of local measurements on N identical copies. We give explicit examples for low N. For large N, we show that the fidelity saturates the collective measurement bound up to order 1/N. When the signal state lays on a meridian of the Bloch sphere, we show that this can be achieved without classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0205027
title: Relational Description of the Measurement Process in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael A. Porto
comments: 16 pages, latex file, 1 ps figure, final version accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: NewJ.Phys.4:58,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205027
abstract: We have recently introduced a realistic, covariant, interpretation for the reduction process in relativistic quantum mechanics. The basic problem for a covariant description is the dependence of the states on the frame within which collapse takes place. A suitable use of the causal structure of the devices involved in the measurement process allowed us to introduce a covariant notion for the collapse of quantum states. However, a fully consistent description in the relativistic domain requires the extension of the interpretation to quantum fields. The extension is far from straightforward. Besides the obvious difficulty of dealing with the infinite degrees of freedom of the field theory, one has to analyze the restrictions imposed by causality concerning the allowed operations in a measurement process. In this paper we address these issues. We shall show that, in the case of partial causally connected measurements, our description allows us to include a wider class of causal operations than the one resulting from the standard way for computing conditional probabilities. This alternative description could be experimentally tested. A verification of this proposal would give a stronger support to the realistic interpretations of the states in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0205028
title: The informational nature of quantum mechanics: A novel look at the interference experiment
authors: Mohammad Mehrafarin
comments: final version; accepted for publication in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 16 (2003) 127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205028
abstract: It is argued that the nature of probability is essentially informational rather than physical and that quantum mechanical predictions should be viewed as logical inferences made on the basis of the information content of a given experimental situation. By implementing such a viewpoint, it is possible to maintain a sharp distinction between the physical and statistical aspects of quantum mechanics. The idea is applied to the double-beam interference experiment, reproducing the results of the standard formulation of quantum mechanics in a manner that renders the notion of wave-particle duality superfluous.

id: quant-ph/0205029
title: Nonclassical statistics of intracavity coupled $¦Ö^{(2)}$ waveguides: the quantum optical dimer
authors: M. Bache, Yu. B. Gaididei, P. L. Christiansen
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 043802 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205029
abstract: A model is proposed where two $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinear waveguides are contained in a cavity suited for second-harmonic generation. The evanescent wave coupling between the waveguides is considered as weak, and the interplay between this coupling and the nonlinear interaction within the waveguides gives rise to quantum violations of the classical limit. These violations are particularly strong when two instabilities are competing, where twin-beam behavior is found as almost complete noise suppression in the difference of the fundamental intensities. Moreover, close to bistable transitions perfect twin-beam correlations are seen in the sum of the fundamental intensities, and also the self-pulsing instability as well as the transition from symmetric to asymmetric states display nonclassical twin-beam correlations of both fundamental and second-harmonic intensities. The results are based on the full quantum Langevin equations derived from the Hamiltonian and including cavity damping effects. The intensity correlations of the output fields are calculated semi-analytically using a linearized version of the Langevin equations derived through the positive-P representation. Confirmation of the analytical results are obtained by numerical simulations of the nonlinear Langevin equations derived using the truncated Wigner representation.

id: quant-ph/0205030
title: Generation of maximum spin entanglement induced by cavity field in quantum-dot systems
authors: A. Miranowicz, S.K. Ozdemir, Yu-xi Liu, M. Koashi, N. Imoto, Y. Hirayama
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062321 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205030
abstract: Equivalent-neighbor interactions of the conduction-band electron spins of quantum dots in the model of Imamoglu et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 4204 (1999)] are analyzed. Analytical solution and its Schmidt decomposition are found and applied to evaluate how much the initially excited dots can be entangled to the remaining dots if all of them are initially disentangled. It is demonstrated that the perfect maximally entangled states (MES) can only be generated in the systems of up to 6 dots with a single dot initially excited. It is also shown that highly entangled states, approximating the MES with a good accuracy, can still be generated in systems of odd number of dots with almost half of them being excited. A sudden decrease of entanglement is observed by increasing the total number of dots in a system with a fixed number of excitations.

id: quant-ph/0205031
title: Quantum information in base n defined by state partitions
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 044306 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205031
abstract: We define a "nit" as a radix n measure of quantum information which is based on state partitions associated with the outcomes of n-ary observables and which, for n>2, is fundamentally irreducible to a binary coding. Properties of this measure for entangled many-particle states are discussed. k particles specify k nits in such a way that k mutually commuting measurements of observables with n possible outcomes are sufficient to determine the information.

id: quant-ph/0205032
title: A Loophole in Bell's Theorem? Parameter Dependence in the Hess-Philipp Model
authors: Wayne C. Myrvold
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, 1 table. In this version, remarks have been added to make clearer the relation between the Hess-Philipp model and the simpler model presented herein. References to related criticisms of Hess and Philipp, by Gill et al, (quant-ph/0204169) and Mermin (quant-ph/0206118) have also been added. To be presented at the 18th Biennial Meeting of the Philosophy of Science Association, Milwaukee, Nov. 7-10, 2002. This version matches that deposited on the PhilSci archive at this http URL, PITT-PHIL-SCI00000694
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205032
abstract: The hidden-variables model constructed by Karl Hess and Walter Philipp is claimed by its authors to exploit a "loophole" in Bell's theorem; the claim is made by Hess and Philipp that the parameters employed in their model extend beyond those considered by Bell. Furthermore, they claim that their model satisfies Einstein locality and is free of any "suspicion of spooky action at a distance." Both of these claims are false; the Hess-Philipp model achieves agreement with the quantum-mechanical predictions, not by circumventing Bell's theorem, but via Parameter Dependence.

id: quant-ph/0205033
title: Compatibility of quantum states
authors: David Poulin, Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 010101(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205033
abstract: We introduce a measure of the compatibility between quantum states--the likelihood that two density matrices describe the same object. Our measure is motivated by two elementary requirements, which lead to a natural definition. We list some properties of this measure, and discuss its relation to the problem of combining two observers' states of knowledge.

id: quant-ph/0205034
title: Solving Shift Problems and Hidden Coset Problem Using the Fourier Transform
authors: Lawrence Ip
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205034
abstract: We give a quantum algorithm for solving a shifted multiplicative character problem over Z/nZ and finite fields. We show that the algorithm can be interpreted as a matrix factorization or as solving a deconvolution problem and give sufficient conditions for a shift problem to be solved efficiently by our algorithm. We also show that combining the shift problem with the hidden subgroup problem results in a hidden coset problem. This naturally captures the redundancy in the shift due to the periodic structure of multiplicative characters over Z/nZ.

id: quant-ph/0205035
title: A simple formula for the average gate fidelity of a quantum dynamical operation
authors: Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 3 pages, references and discussion of prior work updated
journal: Phys. Lett. A 303 (4): 249-252 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205035
abstract: This note presents a simple formula for the average fidelity between a unitary quantum gate and a general quantum operation on a qudit, generalizing the formula for qubits found by Bowdrey et al [Phys. Lett. A 294, 258 (2002)]. This formula may be useful for experimental determination of average gate fidelity. We also give a simplified proof of a formula due to Horodecki et al [Phys. Rev. A 60, 1888 (1999)], connecting average gate fidelity to entanglement fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0205036
title: Macroscopic quantum superpositions in highly-excited strongly-interacting many-body systems
authors: S.Yu. Kun, L. Benet, L.T. Chadderton, W. Greiner, F. Haas
comments: Title changed, few changes in the abstract and in the main body of the paper, and changes in the font size in the figure. Uses revTex4, 4 pages, 1 ps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. C, vol 67, 011604R (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205036
abstract: We demonstrate a break-down in the macroscopic (classical-like) dynamics of wave-packets in complex microscopic and mesoscopic collisions. This break-down manifests itself in coherent superpositions of the rotating clockwise and anticlockwise wave-packets in the regime of strongly overlapping many-body resonances of the highly-excited intermediate complex. These superpositions involve $\sim 10^4$ many-body configurations so that their internal interactive complexity dramatically exceeds all of those previously discussed and experimentally realized. The interference fringes persist over a time-interval much longer than the energy relaxation-redistribution time due to the anomalously slow phase randomization (dephasing). Experimental verification of the effect is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0205037
title: Initial Decoherence of Open Quantum Systems
authors: Vladimir Privman
comments: 24 pages in plain TeX
journal: J. Statistical Phys. 110, 957-970 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205037
abstract: We present a new short-time approximation scheme for evaluation of decoherence. At low temperatures, the approximation is argued to apply at intermediate times as well. It then provides a tractable approach complementary to Markovian-type approximations, and is appropriate for evaluation of deviations from pure states in quantum computing models.

id: quant-ph/0205038
title: Easy Control over Fermionic Computations
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: LaTex, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205038
abstract: Quantum fermionic computations on occupation numbers proposed in quant-ph/0003137 are studied. It is shown that a control over external field and tunneling would suffice to fulfill all quantum computations without valuable slowdown in the framework of such model when an interaction of diagonal type is fixed and permanent. Substantiation is given through a reduction of some subset of this model to the conventional language of quantum computing and application of the construction from quant-ph/0202030.

id: quant-ph/0205039
title: Quantum Mechanics as Quantum Information (and only a little more)
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 59 pages, 5 figures, 140 equations, one simple idea
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205039
abstract: In this paper, I try once again to cause some good-natured trouble. The issue remains, when will we ever stop burdening the taxpayer with conferences devoted to the quantum foundations? The suspicion is expressed that no end will be in sight until a means is found to reduce quantum theory to two or three statements of crisp physical (rather than abstract, axiomatic) significance. In this regard, no tool appears better calibrated for a direct assault than quantum information theory. Far from a strained application of the latest fad to a time-honored problem, this method holds promise precisely because a large part--but not all--of the structure of quantum theory has always concerned information. It is just that the physics community needs reminding. This paper, though taking quant-ph/0106166 as its core, corrects one mistake and offers several observations beyond the previous version. In particular, I identify one element of quantum mechanics that I would not label a subjective term in the theory--it is the integer parameter D traditionally ascribed to a quantum system via its Hilbert-space dimension.

id: quant-ph/0205040
title: Spin Processor
authors: A. K. Khitrin, V. L. Ermakov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205040
abstract: It is experimentally demonstrated that with multi-frequency excitation of weak amplitude the dynamics of a cluster of dipolar-coupled spins can be manipulated to perform parallel logic operations with long bit arrays.

id: quant-ph/0205041
title: Wigner functions for curved spaces I: On hyperboloids
authors: Miguel Angel Alonso, George S.Pogosyan, Kurt Bernardo Wolf
comments: 25 pages (included one figure), Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205041
abstract: We propose a Wigner quasiprobability distribution function for Hamiltonian systems in spaces of constant curvature --in this paper on hyperboloids--, which returns the correct marginals and has the covariance of the Shapiro functions under SO(D,1) transformations. To the free systems obeying the Laplace-Beltrami equation on the hyperboloid, we add a conic-oscillator potential in the hyperbolic coordinate. As an example, we analyze the 1-dimensional case on a hyperbola branch, where this conic-oscillator is the Poschl-Teller potential. We present the analytical solutions and plot the computed results. The standard theory of quantum oscillators is regained in the contraction limit to the space of zero curvature.

id: quant-ph/0205042
title: Dressed States Approach to Quantum Systems
authors: G. Flores-Hidalgo, A.P.C. Malbouisson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205042
abstract: Using the non-perturbative method of {\it dressed} states previously introduced in JPhysA, we study effects of the environment on a quantum mechanical system, in the case the environment is modeled by an ensemble of non interacting harmonic oscillators. This method allows to separate the whole system into the {\it dressed} mechanical system and the {\it dressed} environment, in terms of which an exact, non-perturbative approach is possible. When applied to the Brownian motion, we give explicit non-perturbative formulas for the classical path of the particle in the weak and strong coupling regimes. When applied to study atomic behaviours in cavities, the method accounts very precisely for experimentally observed inhibition of atomic decay in small cavities PhysLA, physics0111042.

id: quant-ph/0205043
title: Experimental demonstration of a squeezing enhanced power recycled Michelson interferometer for gravitational wave detection
authors: Kirk McKenzie, Ben C. Buchler, Daniel A. Shaddock, Ping Koy Lam, David E. McClelland
comments: 4 pages 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 231102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205043
abstract: Interferometric gravitational wave detectors are expected to be limited by shot noise at some frequencies. We experimentally demonstrate that a power recycled Michelson with squeezed light injected into the dark port can overcome this limit. An improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio of 2.3dB is measured and locked stably for long periods of time. The configuration, control and signal readout of our experiment are compatible with current gravitational wave detector designs. We consider the application of our system to long baseline interferometer designs such as LIGO.

id: quant-ph/0205044
title: Non-deterministic Gates for Photonic Single Rail Quantum Logic
authors: A.P.Lund, T.C.Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 66, 032307 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205044
abstract: We discuss techniques for producing, manipulating and measureing qubits encoded optically as vacuum and single photon states. We show that a universal set of non-deterministic gates can be constructed using linear optics and photon counting. We investigate the efficacy of a test gate given realistic detector efficiencies.

id: quant-ph/0205045
title: Analysis of Absorbing Times of Quantum Walks
authors: Tomohiro Yamasaki, Hirotada Kobayashi, Hiroshi Imai
comments: LaTeX2e, 14 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, figures revised, references added, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205045
abstract: Quantum walks are expected to provide useful algorithmic tools for quantum computation. This paper introduces absorbing probability and time of quantum walks and gives both numerical simulation results and theoretical analyses on Hadamard walks on the line and symmetric walks on the hypercube from the viewpoint of absorbing probability and time.

id: quant-ph/0205046
title: Multiple algebraisations of an elliptic Calogero-Sutherland model
authors: Yves Brihaye, Betti Hartmann
comments: 9 Revtex pages, 3 PS-figures; Summary, abstract and conclusions extended
journal: J.Math.Phys.44:1576,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205046
abstract: Recently, Gomez-Ullate et al. (1) have studied a particular N-particle quantum problem with an elliptic function potential supplemented by an external field. They have shown that the Hamiltonian operator preserves a finite dimensional space of functions and as such is quasi exactly solvable (QES). In this paper we show that other types of invariant function spaces exist, which are in close relation to the algebraic properties of the elliptic functions. Accordingly, series of new algebraic eigenfunctions can be constructed.

id: quant-ph/0205047
title: Derivation of the Schroedinger Equation and the Klein-Gordon Equation from First Principles
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 11 pages; improved and extended version thanks to very useful referee Reports
journal: Substantially corrected version: quant-ph/0311109, Foundations of Physics Letters 17, 4 (2004) 343 - 362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205047
abstract: The Schroedinger- and Klein-Gordon equations are directly derived from classical Lagrangians. The only inputs are given by the discreteness of energy (E=hbar.w) and momentum (p=hbar.k), respectively, as well as the assumed existence of a space-pervading field of "zero-point energy" (E_0=hbar.w/2 per spatial dimension) associated to each particle of energy E. The latter leads to an additional kinetic energy term in the classical Lagrangian, which alone suffices to pass from classical to quantum mechanics. Moreover, Heisenberg's uncertainty relations are also derived within this framework, i.e., without referring to quantum mechanical or other complex-numbered functions.

id: quant-ph/0205048
title: Speedup in Quantum Adiabatic Evolution Algorithm
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Younghun Kwon
comments: 5 pages, Latex
journal: Z. Naturforsch 58a, 1-3 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205048
abstract: Quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm suggested by Farhi et al. was effective in solving instances of NP-complete problems. The algorithm is governed by the adiabatic theorem. Therefore, in order to reduce the running time, it is essential to examine the minimum energy gap between the ground level and the next one through the evolution. In this letter, we show a way of speedup in quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm, using the extended Hamiltonian. We present the exact relation between the energy gap and the elements of the extended Hamiltonian, which provides the new point of view to reduce the running time.

id: quant-ph/0205049
title: Threshold temperature for pairwise and many-particle thermal entanglement in the isotropic Heisenberg model
authors: Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 4 pages with 1 fig. More discussions on many-particle ground-state and thermal entanglement in the multiqubit Heisenberg model from 2 to 11 qubits are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 044305 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205049
abstract: We study the threshold temperature for pairwise thermal entanglement in the spin-1/2 isotropic Heisenberg model up to 11 spins and find that the threshold temperature for odd and even number of qubits approaches the thermal dynamical limit from below and above, respectively. The threshold temperature in the thermodynamical limit is estimated. We investigate the many-particle entanglement in both ground states and thermal states of the system, and find that the thermal state in the four-qubit model is four-particle entangled before a threshold temperature.

id: quant-ph/0205050
title: Implementation of quantum maps by programmable quantum processors
authors: Mark Hillery, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 10 revtex pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205050
abstract: A quantum processor is a device with a data register and a program register. The input to the program register determines the operation, which is a completely positive linear map, that will be performed on the state in the data register. We develop a mathematical description for these devices, and apply it to several different examples of processors. The problem of finding a processor that will be able to implement a given set of mappings is also examined, and it is shown that while it is possible to design a finite processor to realize the phase-damping channel, it is not possible to do so for the amplitude-damping channel.

id: quant-ph/0205051
title: Structure and Parametrization of Generic Stochastic Maps of Density Matrices
authors: E. C. G. Sudarshan, Anil Shaji
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A, 36, 5073-5081 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205051
abstract: The most general evolution of the density matrix of a quantum system with a finite-dimensional state space is by stochastic maps which take a density matrix linearly into the set of density matrices. These dynamical stochastic maps form a linear convex set that may be viewed as supermatrices. The property of hermiticity of density matrices renders an associated supermatrix hermitian and hence diagonalizable. The positivity of the density matrix does not make the associated supermatrix positive though. If the map itself is positive, it is called completely positive and they have a simple parameterization. This is extended to all positive (not completely positive) maps. A general dynamical map that does not preserve the norm of the density matrices it acts on can be thought of as the contraction of a norm-preserving map of an extended system. The reconstruction of such extended dynamics is also given.

id: quant-ph/0205052
title: Alternative Structures and Bihamiltonian Systems
authors: G.Marmo, G.Morandi, A.Simoni, F.Ventriglia
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205052
abstract: In the study of bi-Hamiltonian systems (both classical and quantum) one starts with a given dynamics and looks for all alternative Hamiltonian descriptions it admits.In this paper we start with two compatible Hermitian structures (the quantum analog of two compatible classical Poisson brackets) and look for all the dynamical systems which turn out to be bi-Hamiltonian with respect to them.

id: quant-ph/0205053
title: A Realistic Deterministic Quantum Theory Using Borelian-Normal Numbers
authors: T.N.Palmer
comments: 38 pages, 1 figure. Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond. Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205053
abstract: The elements of a deterministic quantum theory are developed, which reformulates and extends standard quantum theory. The proposed theory is `realistic' in the sense that in it, a general M-level quantum state is represented by a single real number r. Surprising as it may seem, this real number is shown to contain the same probabilistic information as the standard Hilbert-space state, plus additional information from which measurement outcome is determined. A crucial concept in achieving this is that of Borelian (number-theoretic) normality. The essential role of complex numbers in standard quantum theory is subsumed by the action of a set of self-similar permutation operators on the digits and places of the base-M expansion of a base-M Borelian-normal r; these permutation operators are shown to have complex structure and leave invariant the normality of the underlying real number. The set of real numbers generated by these permutations defines not only the Hilbert space of standard quantum theory, but also, in addition, the sample space from which quantum measurement outcomes can be objectively determined. Dynamical real-number state reduction is precisely described by deterministic number-theoretic operators that reduce the degree of normality of r; from the degree of normality one can infer the standard quantum-theoretic trace rule for measurement probability. All the foundational difficulties of standard quantum theory are described in terms of the proposed theory. It is shown that the real-number states of the proposed theory are precisely its beables.

id: quant-ph/0205054
title: A note on "A Matrix Realignment Method for Recognizing Entanglement," quant-ph/0205017 v1
authors: Oliver Rudolph
comments: 1 page, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205054
abstract: In quant-ph/0205017 v1 Chen, Wu and Yang formulated a necessary separability criterion based on a realignment method for matrices. This note is to point out that this criterion is identical to the necessary cross norm criterion previously put forward by this author.

id: quant-ph/0205055
title: Optimal Entanglement Generation from Quantum Operations
authors: M. S. Leifer, L. Henderson, N. Linden
comments: v1.0 15 pages, 3 figures, written in revtex4. v2.0 References updated. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A v3.0 16 pages, 4 figures. Expanded explanation in section 3A, figures corrected and made clearer. Definition of entangling capacity in section 4 made explicit. Other minor typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A 67:012306 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205055
abstract: We consider how much entanglement can be produced by a non-local two-qubit unitary operation, $U_{AB}$ - the entangling capacity of $U_{AB}$. For a single application of $U_{AB}$, with no ancillas, we find the entangling capacity and show that it generally helps to act with $U_{AB}$ on an entangled state. Allowing ancillas, we present numerical results from which we can conclude, quite generally, that allowing initial entanglement typically increases the optimal capacity in this case as well. Next, we show that allowing collective processing does not increase the entangling capacity if initial entanglement is allowed.

id: quant-ph/0205056
title: Resonant dipole-dipole interaction in the presence of dispersing and absorbing surroundings
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, RevTEX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 063810 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205056
abstract: Within the framework of quantization of the macroscopic electromagnetic field, equations of motion and an effective Hamiltonian for treating both the resonant dipole-dipole interaction between two-level atoms and the resonant atom-field interaction are derived, which can suitably be used for studying the influence of arbitrary dispersing and absorbing material surroundings on these interactions. The theory is applied to the study of the transient behavior of two atoms that initially share a single excitation, with special emphasis on the role of the two competing processes of virtual and real photon exchange in the energy transfer between the atoms. In particular, it is shown that for weak atom-field interaction there is a time window, where the energy transfer follows a rate regime of the type obtained by ordinary second-order perturbation theory. Finally, the resonant dipole-dipole interaction is shown to give rise to a doublet spectrum of the emitted light for weak atom-field interaction and a triplet spectrum for strong atom-field interaction.

id: quant-ph/0205057
title: On the capacities of bipartite Hamiltonians and unitary gates
authors: C. H. Bennett, A. W. Harrow, D. W. Leung, J. A. Smolin
comments: V3: extensively rewritten. V4: a mistaken reference to a conjecture by Kraus and Cirac [quant-ph/0011050] removed and a mistake in the order of authors in Ref. [53] corrected
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, Vol. 49, No. 8, (2003) p.1895-1911
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205057
abstract: We consider interactions as bidirectional channels. We investigate the capacities for interaction Hamiltonians and nonlocal unitary gates to generate entanglement and transmit classical information. We give analytic expressions for the entanglement generating capacity and entanglement-assisted one-way classical communication capacity of interactions, and show that these quantities are additive, so that the asymptotic capacities equal the corresponding 1-shot capacities. We give general bounds on other capacities, discuss some examples, and conclude with some open questions.

id: quant-ph/0205058
title: Reflections on the Spatiotemporal Aspects of the Quantum World
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: Invited talk at the First Meeting on the Interface of Gravitational and Quantum Realms held at IUCAA, Pune (India), December 17--21, 2001. To appear in Mod. Phys. Lett. A. 17 pages. LaTeX2e
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A17:1107-1122,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205058
abstract: The proper resolution of the so-called measurement problem requires a "top-down" conception of the quantum world that is opposed to the usual "bottom-up" conception, which builds on an intrinsically and maximally differentiated manifold. The key to that problem is that the fuzziness of a variable can manifest itself only to the extent that less fuzzy variables exist. Inasmuch as there is nothing less fuzzy than the metric, this argues against a quantum-gravity phenomenology and suggests that a quantum theory of gravity is something of a contradiction in terms - a theory that would make it possible to investigate the physics on scales that do not exist, or to study the physical consequences of a fuzziness that has no physical consequences, other than providing a natural cutoff for the quantum field theories of particle physics.

id: quant-ph/0205059
title: Quantum Computing and Dynamical Quantum Models
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 6 pages, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205059
abstract: A dynamical quantum model assigns an eigenstate to a specified observable even when no measurement is made, and gives a stochastic evolution rule for that eigenstate. Such a model yields a distribution over classical histories of a quantum state. We study what can be computed by sampling from that distribution, i.e., by examining an observer's entire history. We show that, relative to an oracle, one can solve problems in polynomial time that are intractable even for quantum computers; and can search an N-element list in order N^{1/3} steps (though not fewer).

id: quant-ph/0205060
title: Practical Scheme To Share A Secret Key Through An Up To 27.6% Bit Error Rate Quantum Channel
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 4 pages, with a new analytical result, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205060
abstract: A secret key shared through quantum key distribution between two cooperative players is secure against any eavesdropping attack allowed by the laws of physics. Yet, such a key can be established only when the quantum channel error rate due to eavesdropping or imperfect apparatus is low. Here, I report a practical quantum key distribution scheme making use of an adaptive privacy amplification procedure with two-way classical communication. Then, I prove that the scheme generates a secret key whenever the bit error rate of the quantum channel is less than $0.5-0.1\sqrt{5} \approx 27.6%$, thereby making it the most error resistant scheme known to date.

id: quant-ph/0205061
title: First quantized electron and photon model of QED and radiative processes
authors: Melike B. Yucel, Nuri Unal
comments: LaTeX file, 20 pages, 7 figures. to appear in Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: Can. J. Phys./Rev. Can. Phys., 80(8) (2002) 803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205061
abstract: In this study we combine the classical models of the massive and massless spinning particles, derive the current-current interaction Lagrangian of the particles from the gauge transformations of the classical spinors, and discuss radiative processes in electrodynamics by using the solutions of the Dirac equation and the quantum wave equations of the photon. The longitudinal polarized photon states give a new idea about the vacuum concept in electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0205062
title: Quantum Arnol'd Diffusion in a Simple Nonlinear System
authors: V.Ya.Demikhovskii, F.M.Izrailev, A.I.Malyshev
comments: RevTex, 11 pages including 12 ps-figures
journal: Phys.Rev. E66 (2002) 036211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205062
abstract: We study the fingerprint of the Arnol'd diffusion in a quantum system of two coupled nonlinear oscillators with a two-frequency external force. In the classical description, this peculiar diffusion is due to the onset of a weak chaos in a narrow stochastic layer near the separatrix of the coupling resonance. We have found that global dependence of the quantum diffusion coefficient on model parameters mimics, to some extent, the classical data. However, the quantum diffusion happens to be slower that the classical one. Another result is the dynamical localization that leads to a saturation of the diffusion after some characteristic time. We show that this effect has the same nature as for the studied earlier dynamical localization in the presence of global chaos. The quantum Arnol'd diffusion represents a new type of quantum dynamics and can be observed, for example, in 2D semiconductor structures (quantum billiards) perturbed by time-periodic external fields.

id: quant-ph/0205063
title: Generic Incomparability of Infinite-Dimensional Entangled States
authors: Rob Clifton, Brian Hepburn, Christian Wuthrich
comments: 3 pages, final published version, minor adjustments
journal: Phys. Lett. A303 (2002), 121-124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205063
abstract: In support of a recent conjecture by Nielsen (1999), we prove that the phenomena of 'incomparable entanglement'--whereby, neither member of a pair of pure entangled states can be transformed into the other via local operations and classical communication (LOCC)--is a generic feature when the states at issue live in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0205064
title: Inequalities for Quantum Entropy: A Review with Conditions for Equality
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 28 pages, latex Added reference to M.J.W. Hall, "Quantum Information and Correlation Bounds" Phys. Rev. A, 55, pp 100--112 (1997)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 43, 4358-4375 (2002); erratum 46, 019901 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205064
abstract: This paper presents self-contained proofs of the strong subadditivity inequality for quantum entropy and some related inequalities for the quantum relative entropy, most notably its convexity and its monotonicity under stochastic maps. Moreover, the approach presented here, which is based on Klein's inequality and one of Lieb's less well-known concave trace functions, allows one to obtain conditions for equality. Using the fact that the Holevo bound on the accessible information in a quantum ensemble can be obtained as a consequence of the monotonicity of relative entropy, we show that equality can be attained for that bound only when the states in the ensemble commute. The paper concludes with an Appendix giving a short description of Epstein's elegant proof of the relevant concavity theorem of Lieb.

id: quant-ph/0205065
title: Symmetry of distribution for the one-dimensional Hadamard walk
authors: Norio Konno, Takao Namiki, Takahiro Soshi
comments: 17 pages, revised version, Journal-ref added
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Vol.10, No.1, pp.11-22 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205065
abstract: In this paper we study a one-dimensional quantum random walk with the Hadamard transformation which is often called the Hadamard walk. We construct the Hadamard walk using a transition matrix on probability amplitude and give some results on symmetry of probability distributions for the Hadamard walk.

id: quant-ph/0205066
title: Realization of a space reversal operator
authors: B.Militello, A.Messina, A.Napoli
comments: 9 pages; to appear in Rep. Math. Phys., in summer 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205066
abstract: In this paper we propose the realization of a bosonic-fermionic interaction in the context of trapped ions whose effect upon the ion center of mass degrees of freedom is properly speaking a spatial inversion. The physical system and its features are accurately described and some applications are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205067
title: Comment on "Feynman Effective Classical Potential in the Schrodinger Formulation"
authors: G. Andronico, V. Branchina, D. Zappala'
comments: 1 page, 2eps figures, Revtex
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 88 (2002) 178902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205067
abstract: We comment on the paper "Feynman Effective Classical Potential in the Schrodinger Formulation"[Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 3303 (1998)]. We show that the results in this paper about the time evolution of a wave packet in a double well potential can be properly explained by resorting to a variational principle for the effective action. A way to improve on these results is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205068
title: Multipartite entanglement
authors: Peter van Loock, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: to appear in the book ``Quantum Information Theory with Continuous Variables'', edited by A.K.Pati and Samuel L.Braunstein
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205068
abstract: First, we show how the quantum circuits for generating and measuring multi-party entanglement of qubits can be translated to continuous quantum variables. We derive sufficient inseparability criteria for $N$-party continuous-variable states and discuss their applicability. Then, we consider a family of multipartite entangled states (multi-party multi-mode states with one mode per party) described by continuous quantum variables and analyze their properties. These states can be efficiently generated using squeezed light and linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0205069
title: Quantum Entanglement of Identical Particles
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 5 pages, revtex4. A sentence is improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 024301 (2003) [eprint contains a post-publication correction]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205069
abstract: We consider entanglement in a system of fixed number of identical particles. Since any operation should be symmetrized over all the identical particles and there is the precondition that the spatial wave functions overlap, the meaning of identical-particle entanglement is fundamentally different from that of distinguishable particles. The identical-particle counterpart of the Schmidt basis is shown to be the single-particle basis in which the one-particle reduced density matrix is diagonal. But it does not play a special role in the issue of entanglement, which depends on the single-particle basis chosen. The nonfactorization due to (anti)symmetrization is naturally excluded by using the (anti)symmetrized basis or, equivalently, the particle number representation. The natural degrees of freedom in quantifying the identical-particle entanglement in a chosen single-particle basis are occupation numbers of different single particle basis states. The entanglement between effectively distinguishable spins is shown to be a special case of the occupation-number entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0205070
title: Dissipation-assisted quantum gates with cold trapped ions
authors: Almut Beige
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, substantially revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 020301(R) (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205070
abstract: It is shown that a two-qubit phase gate and SWAP operation between ground states of cold trapped ions can be realised in one step by simultaneously applying two laser fields. Cooling during gate operations is possible without perturbing the computation and the scheme does not require a second ion species for sympathetic cooling. On the contrary, the cooling lasers even stabilise the desired time evolution of the system. This affords gate operation times of nearly the same order of magnitude as the inverse coupling constant of the ions to a common vibrational mode.

id: quant-ph/0205071
title: Quantification of entanglement by means of convergent iterations
authors: Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205071
abstract: A convergent iterative procedure is proposed for the calculation of the relative entropy of entanglement of a given bipartite quantum state. When this state turns out to be non-separable the algorithm provides the corresponding optimal entanglement witness measurement.

id: quant-ph/0205072
title: Manipulating Light Pulses via Dynamically Controlled Photonic Bandgap
authors: A. Andre, M.D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 143602 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205072
abstract: When a resonance associated with electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an atomic ensemble is modulated by an off-resonant standing light wave, a band of frequencies can appear for which light propagation is forbidden. We show that dynamic control of such a bandgap can be used to coherently convert a propagating light pulse into a stationary excitation with non-vanishing photonic component. This can be accomplished with high efficiency and negligble noise even at a level of few-photon quantum fields thereby facilitating possible applications in quantum nonlinear optics and quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0205073
title: Entanglement at distance: qubits versus continuous variables
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 5 pages. 4 eps files. Use fortschritte.sty (included)
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 51, 469 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205073
abstract: We consider the problem of obtaining maximally entangled photon states at distance in the presence of loss. We compare the efficiency of two different schemes in establishing $N$ shared ebits: i) $N$ single ebit states with the qubit encoded on polarization; ii) a single continuous variable entangled state (emode) assisted by optimal local operation and classical communication (LOCC) protocol in order to obtain a $2^N$-dimensional maximally entangled state, with qubits encoded on the photon number.

id: quant-ph/0205074
title: ALEPH-QP: Universal hybrid quantum processors
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX 2e
journal: Particles and Nuclei Letters, No. 1[116], p 60 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205074
abstract: A quantum processor (the programmable gate array) is a quantum network with a fixed structure. A space of states is represented as tensor product of data and program registers. Different unitary operations with the data register correspond to "loaded" programs without any changing or "tuning" of network itself. Due to such property and undesirability of entanglement between program and data registers, universality of quantum processors is subject of rather strong restrictions. By different authors was developed universal "stochastic" quantum gate arrays. It was proved also, that "deterministic" quantum processors with finite-dimensional space of states may be universal only in approximate sense. In present paper is shown, that using hybrid system with continuous and discrete quantum variables, it is possible to suggest a design of strictly universal quantum processors. It is shown also that "deterministic" limit of specific programmable "stochastic" U(1) gates (probability of success becomes unit for infinite program register), discussed by other authors, may be essentially same kind of hybrid quantum systems used here.

id: quant-ph/0205075
title: Electromagnetic interpretation of leptons
authors: Alexander G. Kyriakos
comments: PDF, 16 pages, 10 figures, not submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205075
abstract: In the previous papers (quant-ph/0204037), (quant-ph/0204134) on the basis of Dirac's equation we have considered the electromagnetic interpretation of the quantum theory of electron. Here we continue the electron structure study. Since the Dirac equation is also the equation of the other leptons, in the present paper from the electromagnetic point of view we analyse the structure of neutrino. We will show that not only the electron but also all the other leptons have the electromagnetic structure.

id: quant-ph/0205076
title: How the no-cloning theorem got its name
authors: Asher Peres
comments: proceedings of Quantum Interferometry IV, needs fortschritte.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205076
abstract: I was the referee who approved the publication of Nick Herbert's FLASH paper, knowing perfectly well that it was wrong. I explain why my decision was the correct one, and I briefly review the progress to which it led.

id: quant-ph/0205077
title: Quantum computation with two-level trapped cold ions beyond Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: L. F. Wei, S. Y. Liu, X. L. Lei
comments: 12 pages, no figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 062316 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205077
abstract: We propose a simple scheme for implementing quantum logic gates with a string of two-level trapped cold ions outside the Lamb-Dicke limit. Two internal states of each ion are used as one computational qubit (CQ) and the collective vibration of ions acts as the information bus, i.e., bus qubit (BQ). Using the quantum dynamics for the laser-ion interaction as described by a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model, we show that quantum entanglement between any one CQ and the BQ can be coherently manipulated by applying classical laser beams. As a result, universal quantum gates, i.e. the one-qubit rotation and two-qubit controlled gates, can be implemented exactly. The required experimental parameters for the implementation, including the Lamb-Dicke (LD) parameter and the durations of the applied laser pulses, are derived. Neither the LD approximation for the laser-ion interaction nor the auxiliary atomic level is needed in the present scheme.

id: quant-ph/0205078
title: Role of entanglement and correlations in dense coding
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 6 revtex pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205078
abstract: Usually it is assumed that quantum dense coding is due to quantum entanglement between two parties. We show that this phenomenon has its origin in {\em correlations} between two parties rather than simply in entanglement. In order to justify our argument we evaluate a capacity of the noiseless channel for two cases: (1) when Bob performs measurement just on the particle received from Alice and (2) in the case when he utilizes the whole potential of the dense coding, that is, he performs the measurement on the received particle and the particle he had prior to the communication. We also present a simple classical scenario which might serve as a prototype of the dense coding. We generalize our results also for qudits.

id: quant-ph/0205079
title: Gravitational Noise with Polarization Variables, the Nature of Entanglement States and Metrics Fluctuational Interpretation of Qauntum Mechanics
authors: T.F. Kamalov
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205079
abstract: Discussed in the study are gravitational noise and the nature of entanglement states. Their role in forming of entangled states. Nonlocal nature of entangled states can be brought about by Polarization Variables. Polarization Variables consists of sum a background of random classical gravitational fields and waves, random electromagnets fields and so on known or unknown, distributed average isotropically in the space. This background is capable of correlating phases the oscillations of microobjects. From this follow, that entanglement polarizations states is the functions of Polarization Variables in Vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0205080
title: Quantum communication complexity protocol with two entangled qutrits
authors: Caslav Brukner, Marek Zukowski, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, precise formulation of classical protocols
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 197901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205080
abstract: We formulate a two-party communication complexity problem and present its quantum solution that exploits the entanglement between two qutrits. We prove that for a broad class of protocols the entangled state can enhance the efficiency of solving the problem in the quantum protocol over any classical one if and only if the state violates Bell's inequality for two qutrits.

id: quant-ph/0205081
title: Event-independence, collective-independence,EPR-Bohm experiment and incompleteness of quantum mechanics
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205081
abstract: We analyse notion of independence in the EPR-Bohm framework by using comparative analysis of independence in conventional and frequency probability theories. Such an analysis is important to demonstrate that Bell's inequality was obtained by using totally unjustified assumptions (e.g. the Bell-Clauser-Horne factorability condition). Our frequency analysis also demonstrated that Gill-Weihs-Zeilinger-Zukowski's arguments based on "the experimenter's freedom to choose settings" to support the standard Bell approach are neither justified by the structure of the EPR-Bohm experiment. Finally, our analysis supports the original Einstein's viewpoint that quantum mechanics is simply not complete.

id: quant-ph/0205082
title: Preparation of spin squeezed atomic states by optical phase shift measurement
authors: Isabelle Bouchoule, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 043811 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205082
abstract: In this paper we present a state vector analysis of the generation of atomic spin squeezing by measurement of an optical phase shift. The frequency resolution is improved when a spin squeezed sample is used for spectroscopy in place of an uncorrelated sample. When light is transmitted through an atomic sample some photons will be scattered out of the incident beam, and this has a destructive effect on the squeezing. We present quantitative studies for three limiting cases: the case of a sample of atoms of size smaller than the optical wavelength, the case of a large dilute sample and the case of a large dense sample.

id: quant-ph/0205083
title: Quantum Random Walks Hit Exponentially Faster
authors: Julia Kempe
comments: 15 pages, no Figures
journal: Probability Theory and Related Fields, Vol. 133(2), p. 215-235 (2005), conference version in Proc. 7th RANDOM, p. 354-69, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205083
abstract: We show that the hitting time of the discrete time quantum random walk on the n-bit hypercube from one corner to its opposite is polynomial in n. This gives the first exponential quantum-classical gap in the hitting time of discrete quantum random walks. We provide the framework for quantum hitting time and give two alternative definitions to set the ground for its study on general graphs. We then give an application to random routing.

id: quant-ph/0205084
title: The Metric of Quantum States Revisited
authors: Aalok Pandya, Ashok K. Nagawat
comments: 14 pages;Published in Physics Essays; Revised as accepted for publication in Physics Essays
journal: Physics Essays, Vol 19, No. 2 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205084
abstract: A generalised definition of the metric of quantum states is proposed by using the techniques of differential geometry. The metric of quantum state space derived earlier by Anandan, is reproduced and verified here by this generalised definition. The metric of quantum states in the configuration space and its possible geometrical framework is explored. Also, invariance of the metric of quantum states under local gauge transformations, coordinate transformations, and the relativistic transformations is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205085
title: Three Methods for Computing the Feynman Propagator
authors: F. A. Barone, H. Boschi-Filho, C. Farina
comments: 21 Latex pages, no figures. Small changes in the text. Some points clarified
journal: Am.J.Phys. 71 (2003) 483-491
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205085
abstract: We present three methods for calculating the Feynman propagator for the non-relativistic harmonic oscillator. The first method was employed by Schwinger a half a century ago, but has rarely been used in non-relativistic problems since. Also discussed is an algebraic method and a path integral method so that the reader can compare the advantages and disadvantages of each method.

id: quant-ph/0205086
title: Markov shift on non-commutative probability
authors: Anilesh Mohari
comments: 33 pages, no figure, latex format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205086
abstract: We consider a class of quantum dissipative semigroup on a von-Neumann algebra which admits a normal invariant state. We investigate asymptotic behavior of the dissipative dynamics and their relation to that of the canonical Markov shift. In case the normal invariant state is also faithful, we also extend the notion of `quantum detailed balance' introduced by Frigerio-Gorini and prove that forward weak Markov process and backward weak Markov process are equivalent by an anti-unitary operator.

id: quant-ph/0205087
title: Interference of Quantum Market Strategies
authors: E. W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski, J. Syska
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: Physica A318 (2003) 516-528
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205087
abstract: Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The paper is devoted to the analysis of interference of quantum strategies in quantum market games.

id: quant-ph/0205088
title: Entanglement teleportation via thermally entangled states of two-qubit Heisenberg XX chain
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 6 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205088
abstract: Recently, entanglement teleportation has been investigated in Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 4236 (2000). In this paper we study entanglement teleportation via two separate thermally entangled states of two-qubit Heisenberg XX chain. We established the condition under which the parameters of the model have to satisfy in order to teleport entanglement. The necessary minimum amount of thermal entanglement for some fixed strength of exchange coupling is a function of the magnetic field and temperature.

id: quant-ph/0205089
title: Detection of entanglement with few local measurements
authors: O. Guehne, P. Hyllus, D. Bruss, A. Ekert, M. Lewenstein, C. Macchiavello, A. Sanpera
comments: 5 pages + 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062305 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205089
abstract: We introduce a general method for the experimental detection of entanglement by performing only few local measurements, assuming some prior knowledge of the density matrix. The idea is based on the minimal decomposition of witness operators into a pseudo-mixture of local operators. We discuss an experimentally relevant case of two qubits, and show an example how bound entanglement can be detected with few local measurements.

id: quant-ph/0205090
title: Producing the entangled photon pairs without type II down conversion
authors: Wang Xiang-bin
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205090
abstract: We propose a simple scheme to produce the polarization entangled photon pairs without the type II phase match. The same scheme can also be used to produce the macroscopic entangled photon states in both photon number space and the polarization space(A. Lamas-Linares, J.C. Howell and D. Bouwmeester, Nature, 412887(2001)). Advantages and applications of our scheme in quantum key distribution are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205091
title: Retrodiction of Generalised Measurement Outcomes
authors: Anthony Chefles, Masahide Sasaki
comments: To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205091
abstract: If a generalised measurement is performed on a quantum system and we do not know the outcome, are we able to retrodict it with a second measurement? We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for perfect retrodiction of the outcome of a known generalised measurement, given the final state, for an arbitrary initial state. From this, we deduce that, when the input and output Hilbert spaces have equal (finite) dimension, it is impossible to perfectly retrodict the outcome of any fine-grained measurement (where each POVM element corresponds to a single Kraus operator) for all initial states unless the measurement is unitarily equivalent to a projective measurement. It also enables us to show that every POVM can be realised in such a way that perfect outcome retrodiction is possible for an arbitrary initial state when the number of outcomes does not exceed the output Hilbert space dimension. We then consider the situation where the initial state is not arbitrary, though it may be entangled, and describe the conditions under which unambiguous outcome retrodiction is possible for a fine-grained generalised measurement. We find that this is possible for some state if the Kraus operators are linearly independent. This condition is also necessary when the Kraus operators are non-singular. From this, we deduce that every trace-preserving quantum operation is associated with a generalised measurement whose outcome is unambiguously retrodictable for some initial state, and also that a set of unitary operators can be unambiguously discriminated iff they are linearly independent. We then examine the issue of unambiguous outcome retrodiction without entanglement. This has important connections with the theory of locally linearly dependent and locally linearly independent operators.

id: quant-ph/0205092
title: Brain as quantum-like computer
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: In particular, a review on quantum mental models: Whitehead (1929, 1933, 1939), Orlov (1982), Healey (1984), Albert and Loewer (1988, 1992), Lockwood (1989, 1996), Penrose (1989, 1994), Donald (1990, 1995, 1996), Jibu and Yasue (1992, 1994), Bohm and Hiley (1993), Stapp (1993), Hameroff (1994, 1998), Loewer (1996), Hiley and Pylkk\"anen (1997), Deutsch (1997), Barrett (1999), Khrennikov (1999, 2000), Hiley (2000), Vitiello (2001)
journal: BioSystems, 84, 225-241, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205092
abstract: We present a contextualist statistical realistic model for quantum-like representations in physics, cognitive science and psychology. We apply this model to describe cognitive experiments to check quantum-like structures of mental processes. The crucial role is played by interference of probabilities for mental observables. Recently one of such experiments based on recognition of images was performed. This experiment confirmed our prediction on quantum-like behaviour of mind. In our approach ``quantumness of mind'' has no direct relation to the fact that the brain (as any physical body) is composed of quantum particles. We invented a new terminology ``quantum-like (QL) mind.'' Cognitive QL-behaviour is characterized by nonzero coefficient of interference $\lambda.$ This coefficient can be found on the basis of statistical data. There is predicted not only $\cos \theta$-interference of probabilities, but also hyperbolic $\cosh \theta$-interference. This interference was never observed for physical systems, but we could not exclude this possibility for cognitive systems. We propose a model of brain functioning as QL-computer (there is discussed difference between quantum and QL computers).

id: quant-ph/0205093
title: Quantum Principles and Mathematical Computability
authors: Tien D Kieu
comments: 9 pages in A4 size and 10pt fonts, 3 figures. Modified with a new reference added for submission to QS2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205093
abstract: Taking the view that computation is after all physical, we argue that physics, particularly quantum physics, could help extend the notion of computability. Here, we list the important and unique features of quantum mechanics and then outline a quantum mechanical "algorithm" for one of the insoluble problems of mathematics, the Hilbert's tenth and equivalently the Turing halting problem. The key element of this algorithm is the {\em computability} and {\em measurability} of both the values of physical observables and of the quantum-mechanical probability distributions for these values.

id: quant-ph/0205094
title: Transport of Quantum States and Separation of Ions in a Dual RF Ion Trap
authors: M. A. Rowe, A. Ben-Kish, B. DeMarco, D. Leibfried, V. Meyer, J. Beall, J. Britton, J. Hughes, W. M. Itano, B. Jelenkovic, C. Langer, T. Rosenband, D. J. Wineland
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205094
abstract: We have investigated ion dynamics associated with a dual linear ion trap where ions can be stored in and moved between two distinct locations. Such a trap is a building block for a system to engineer arbitrary quantum states of ion ensembles. Specifically, this trap is the unit cell in a strategy for scalable quantum computing using a series of interconnected ion traps. We have transferred an ion between trap locations 1.2 mm apart in 50 $\mu$s with near unit efficiency ($> 10^{6}$ consecutive transfers) and negligible motional heating, while maintaining internal-state coherence. In addition, we have separated two ions held in a common trap into two distinct traps.

id: quant-ph/0205095
title: Circuit for Shor's algorithm using 2n+3 qubits
authors: Stephane Beauregard
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, revised January 24, 2003
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 3, No. 2 (2003) pp. 175-185
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205095
abstract: We try to minimize the number of qubits needed to factor an integer of n bits using Shor's algorithm on a quantum computer. We introduce a circuit which uses 2n+3 qubits and O(n^3 lg(n)) elementary quantum gates in a depth of O(n^3) to implement the factorization algorithm. The circuit is computable in polynomial time on a classical computer and is completely general as it does not rely on any property of the number to be factored. Keywords: Factorization, quantum circuits, modular arithmetics

id: quant-ph/0205096
title: A Bell-type Theorem Without Hidden Variables
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: To appear in Amer. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205096
abstract: It is shown that no theory that satisfies certain premises can exclude faster-than-light influences. The premises include neither the existence of hidden variables, nor counterfactual definiteness, nor any premise that effectively entails the general existence of outcomes of unperformed local measurements. All the premises are compatible with Copenhagen philosophy, and the principles and predictions of relativistic quantum field theory. The present proof is contrasted with an earlier one with the same objective.

id: quant-ph/0205097
title: Recovery of continuous wave squeezing at low frequencies
authors: W. P. Bowen, R. Schnabel, N. Treps, H. A. Bachor, P. K. Lam
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 4 (December 2002) 421-424
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205097
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a system that produces squeezed vacuum using a pair of optical parametric amplifiers. This scheme allows the production of phase sidebands on the squeezed vacuum which facilitate phase locking in downstream applications. We observe strong, stably locked, continuous wave vacuum squeezing at frequencies as low as 220 kHz. We propose an alternative resonator configuration to overcome low frequency squeezing degradation caused by the optical parametric amplifiers.

id: quant-ph/0205098
title: Tailoring teleportation to the quantum alphabet
authors: P. T. Cochrane, T. C. Ralph
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX, made changes as recommended by referee, other minor textual corrections, resubmitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205098
abstract: We introduce a refinement of the standard continuous variable teleportation measurement and displacement strategies. This refinement makes use of prior knowledge about the target state and the partial information carried by the classical channel when entanglement is non-maximal. This gives an improvement in the output quality of the protocol. The strategies we introduce could be used in current continuous variable teleportation experiments.

id: quant-ph/0205099
title: On the effective size of certain "Schr?dinger cat'' like states
authors: Wolfgang D¨¹r, Christoph Simon, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 210402 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205099
abstract: Several experiments and experimental proposals for the production of macroscopic superpositions naturally lead to states of the general form $|\phi_1>^{\otimes N}+|\phi_2>^{\otimes N}$, where the number of subsystems $N$ is very large, but the states of the individual subsystems have large overlap, $|{\l}\phi_1|\phi_2 \r|^2=1-\epsilon^2$. We propose two different methods for assigning an effective particle number to such states, using ideal Greenberger--Horne--Zeilinger (GHZ)-- states of the form $|0\r^{\otimes n}+|1\r^{\otimes n}$ as a standard of comparison. The two methods are based on decoherence and on a distillation protocol respectively. Both lead to an effective size $n$ of the order of $N \epsilon^2$.

id: quant-ph/0205100
title: Characterization of non-local gates
authors: K. Hammerer, G. Vidal, J.I. Cirac
comments: revtex, 14 pages, no pictures; proof of result 1 simplified significantly
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062321 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205100
abstract: A non-local unitary transformation of two qubits occurs when some Hamiltonian interaction couples them. Here we characterize the amount, as measured by time, of interaction required to perform two--qubit gates, when also arbitrarily fast, local unitary transformations can be applied on each qubit. The minimal required time of interaction, or interaction cost, defines an operational notion of the degree of non--locality of gates. We characterize a partial order structure based on this notion. We also investigate the interaction cost of several communication tasks, and determine which gates are able to accomplish them. This classifies two--qubit gates into four categories, differing in their capability to transmit classical, as well as quantum, bits of information.

id: quant-ph/0205101
title: Dense coding and safety of quantum communications
authors: A.Ya.Kazakov
comments: 5 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205101
abstract: The sending station being the classical device can be eavesdropped by classical means. Dense coding and quantum nature of wave function give the additional resource to raise the safety of the quantum channel as a whole.

id: quant-ph/0205102
title: Multipartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradoxes for continuous variables
authors: Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio
comments: to appear in the book ``Quantum Information Theory with Continuous Variables'', edited by A.K.Pati and Samuel L.Braunstein
journal: "Quantum Information with Continuous Variables", edited by S. L. Braunstein and A. K. Pati (Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, 2003), p. 105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205102
abstract: We show how to construct Greenberger-Horn-Zeilinger type paradoxes for continuous variable systems. We give two examples corresponding to 3 party and 5 party paradoxes. The paradoxes are revealed by carrying out position and momentum measurements. The structure of the quantum states which lead to these paradoxes is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205103
title: Single Photons on Pseudo-Demand from Stored Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C. Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: 8 pages, 7 Figs., RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205103
abstract: We describe the results of a parametric down-conversion experiment in which the detection of one photon of a pair causes the other photon to be switched into a storage loop. The stored photon can then be switched out of the loop at a later time chosen by the user, providing a single photon for potential use in a variety of quantum information processing applications. Although the stored single photon is only available at periodic time intervals, those times can be chosen to match the cycle time of a quantum computer by using pulsed down-conversion. The potential use of the storage loop as a photonic quantum memory device is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205104
title: Quantum electromagnetic field in a three dimensional oscillating cavity
authors: Martin Crocce, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A66:033811,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205104
abstract: We compute the photon creation inside a perfectly conducting, three dimensional oscillating cavity, taking the polarization of the electromagnetic field into account. As the boundary conditions for this field are both of Dirichlet and (generalized) Neumann type, we analyze as a preliminary step the dynamical Casimir effect for a scalar field satisfying generalized Neumann boundary conditions. We show that particle production is enhanced with respect to the case of Dirichlet boundary conditions. Then we consider the transverse electric and transverse magnetic polarizations of the electromagnetic field. For resonant frequencies, the total number of photons grows exponentially in time for both polarizations, the rate being greater for transverse magnetic modes.

id: quant-ph/0205105
title: Distinguishability of maximally entangled states
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Anirban Roy, Debasis Sarkar
comments: There were some mistakes in the previous versions, which have been corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205105
abstract: In $2 \otimes 2$, more than 2 orthogonal Bell states with single copy can never be discriminated with certainty if only local operations and classical communication (LOCC) are allowed. More than $d$ orthogonal maximally entangled states in $d \otimed d$, which are in cannonical form, used by Bennett et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 70 (1993) 1895] can never be discriminated with certainty when a single copy of the states is provided. Interestingly we show that all orthogonal maximally entangled states, which are in cannonical form, can be discriminated with certainty if and only if two copies of each of the states are provided. The highly nontrivial problem of local discrimination of $d$ or less no. of pairwise orthogonal maximally entangled states in $d \otimes d$ (in single copy case), which are in cannonical form, is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205106
title: Generation and control of resonance states in crossed magnetic and electric fields
authors: Katarzyna Krajewska, Jerzy Z. Kaminski
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205106
abstract: A two-dimensional electron system interacting with an impurity and placed in crossed magnetic and electric fields is under investigation. Since it is assumed that an impurity center interacts as an attractive $\delta$-like potential a renormalization procedure for the retarded Green's function has to be carried out. For the vanishing electric field we obtain a close analytical expression for the Green's function and we find one bound state localized between Landau levels. It is also shown by numerical investigations that switching on the electric field new long-living resonance states localized in the vicinity of Landau levels can be generated.

id: quant-ph/0205107
title: Purification of two-qubit mixed states
authors: Enric Jane
comments: Small corrections. Final version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 2, 348 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205107
abstract: We find the necessary and sufficient condition under which two two-qubit mixed states can be purified into a pure maximally entangled state by local operations and classical communication. The optimal protocol for such transformation is obtained. This result leads to a necessary and sufficient condition for the exact purification of $n$ copies of a two-qubit state.

id: quant-ph/0205108
title: Decoherence scenarios from micro- to macroscopic superpositions
authors: Walter T. Strunz, Fritz Haake
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, accompanying paper to quant-ph/0204129
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205108
abstract: Environment induced decoherence entails the absence of quantum interference phenomena from the macroworld. The loss of coherence between superposed wave packets depends on their separation. The precise temporal course depends on the relative size of the time scales for decoherence and other processes taking place in the open system and its environment. We use the exactly solvable model of an harmonic oscillator coupled to a bath of oscillators to illustrate various decoherence scenarios: These range from exponential golden-rule decay for microscopic superpositions, system-specific decay for larger separations in a crossover regime, and finally universal interaction-dominated decoherence for ever more macroscopic superpositions.

id: quant-ph/0205109
title: A conditional-phase switch at the single-photon level
authors: K. J. Resch, J. S. Lundeen, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 89, 037904 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205109
abstract: We present an experimental realization of a two-photon conditional-phase switch, related to the ``$c$-$\phi $'' gate of quantum computation. This gate relies on quantum interference between photon pairs, generating entanglement between two optical modes through the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). The interference effect serves to enhance the effective nonlinearity by many orders of magnitude, so it is significant at the quantum (single-photon) level. By adjusting the relative optical phase between the classical pump for SPDC and the pair of input modes, one can impress a large phase shift on one beam which depends on the presence or absence of a single photon in a control mode.

id: quant-ph/0205110
title: Zero-Range Potentials in Multi-Channel Diatomic Molecule Scattering
authors: S. Leble, S. Yalunin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205110
abstract: The method of zero-range potentials is generalized to account for the molecular electron excitation process. It is made by a matrix formulation in which a state vector components are associated with a scattering channel. The multi-center target is considered and the model is applied to the example of $e + H_2$ low energy scattering. The results of evaluation of cross-sections are compared with ones of the MCF and SMC methods.

id: quant-ph/0205111
title: Multiparty d-dimensional quantum information splitting
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 7 pages
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 102, 703 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205111
abstract: Generalization of quantum information splitting protocol from qubits to qudits (quantum d-dimensional systems) is presented.

id: quant-ph/0205112
title: A test of Local Realism with entangled kaon pairs and without inequalities
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino
comments: 4 RevTeX pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 89 (2002) 160401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205112
abstract: We propose the use of entangled pairs of neutral kaons, considered as a promising tool to close the well known loopholes affecting generic Bell's inequality tests, in a specific Hardy-type experiment. Hardy's contradiction without inequalities between Local Realism and Quantum Mechanics can be translated into a feasible experiment by requiring ideal detection efficiencies for only one of the observables to be alternatively measured. Neutral kaons are near to fulfil this requirement and therefore to close the efficiency loophole.

id: quant-ph/0205113
title: Embedding dissipation and decoherence in unitary evolution schemes
authors: A.R.P. Rau, R.A. Wendell
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 220405 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205113
abstract: Dissipation and decoherence, and the evolution from pure to mixed states in quantum physics are handled through master equations for the density matrix. By embedding elements of this matrix in a higher-dimensional Liouville-Bloch equation, the methods of unitary integration are adapted to solve for the density matrix as a function of time, including the non-unitary effects of dissipation and decoherence. The input requires only solutions of classical, initial value time-dependent equations. Results are illustrated for a damped driven two-level system.

id: quant-ph/0205114
title: Preparing encoded states in an oscillator
authors: B. C. Travaglione, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX
journal: Physical Review A, Vol 66, 052322 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205114
abstract: Recently a scheme has been proposed for constructing quantum error-correcting codes that embed a finite-dimensional code space in the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of a system described by continuous quantum variables. One of the difficult steps in this scheme is the preparation of the encoded states. We show how these states can be generated by coupling a continuous quantum variable to a single qubit. An ion trap quantum computer provides a natural setting for a continuous system coupled to a qubit. We discuss how encoded states may be generated in an ion trap.

id: quant-ph/0205115
title: Both Toffoli and Controlled-NOT need little help to do universal quantum computation
authors: Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205115
abstract: What additional gates are needed for a set of classical universal gates to do universal quantum computation? We answer this question by proving that any single-qubit real gate suffices, except those that preserve the computational basis. The result of Gottesman and Knill[quant-ph/9807006] implies that any quantum circuit involving only the Controlled-NOT and Hadamard gates can be efficiently simulated by a classical circuit. In contrast, we prove that Controlled-NOT plus any single-qubit real gate that does not preserve the computational basis and is not Hadamard (or its alike) are universal for quantum computing. Previously only a ``generic'' gate, namely a rotation by an angle incommensurate with pi, is known to be sufficient in both problems, if only one single-qubit gate is added.

id: quant-ph/0205116
title: Elementary operations for quantum logic with a single trapped two-level cold ion beyond Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: L. F. Wei, S. Y. Liu, X. L. Lei
comments: 5 pages, no figure, to appear in Opt. Comm
journal: Opt. Comm. 208, 131 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205116
abstract: A simple alternative scheme for implementing quantum gates with a single trapped cold two-level ion beyond the Lamb-Dicke (LD) limit is proposed. Basing on the quantum dynamics for the laser-ion interaction described by a generalized Jaynes-Cummings model, one can introduce two kinds of elementary quantum operations i.e., the simple rotation on the bare atomic state, generated by applying a resonant pulse, and the joint operation on the internal and external degrees of the ion, performed by using an off-resonant pulse. Several typical quantum gates, including Hadamard gate, controlled-Z and controlled-NOT gates $etc.$, can thus be implemented exactly by using these elementary operations. The experimental parameters including the LD parameter and the durations of the applied laser pulses, for these implementation are derived analytically and numerically. Neither the LD approximation for the laser-ion interaction nor the auxiliary atomic level is needed in the present scheme.

id: quant-ph/0205117
title: Entanglement required in achieving entanglement-assisted channel capacities
authors: Garry Bowen
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052313 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205117
abstract: Entanglement shared between the two ends of a quantum communication channel has been shown to be a useful resource in increasing both the quantum and classical capacities for these channels. The entanglement-assisted capacities were derived assuming an unlimited amount of shared entanglement per channel use. In this paper, bounds are derived on the minimum amount of entanglement required per use of a channel, in order to asymptotically achieve the capacity. This is achieved by introducing a class of entanglement-assisted quantum codes. Codes for classes of qubit channels are shown to achieve the quantum entanglement-assisted channel capacity when an amount of shared entanglement per channel given by, E = 1 - Q_E, is provided. It is also shown that for very noisy channels, as the capacities become small, the amount of required entanglement converges for the classical and quantum capacities.

id: quant-ph/0205118
title: Entanglement generation by adiabatic navigation in the space of symmetric multi-particle states
authors: Razmik G. Unanyan, Michael Fleischhauer, Nikolay V. Vitanov, Klaas Bergmann
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205118
abstract: We propose a technique for robust and efficient navigation in the Hilbert space of entangled symmetric states of a multiparticle system with externally controllable linear and nonlinear collective interactions. A linearly changing external field applied along the quantization axis creates a network of well separated level crossings in the energy diagram of the collective states. One or more transverse pulsed fields applied at the times of specific level crossings induce adiabatic passage between these states. By choosing the timing of the pulsed field appropriately, one can transfer an initial product state of all N spins into (i) any symmetric state with n spin excitations and (ii) the N-particle analog of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. This technique, unlike techniques using pulses of specific area, does not require precise knowledge of the number of particles and is robust against variations in the interaction parameters. We discuss potential applications in two-component Bose condensates and ion-trap systems.

id: quant-ph/0205119
title: Entanglement between two macroscopic fields by coherent atom-mediated exchange of photons
authors: C. L. Garrido Alzar, M. Franca Santos, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205119
abstract: Using two different criteria for continuous variable systems we demonstrated that pump and probe beams became quantum correlated in a situation of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in a sample of Rb atoms. Our result combines two important features for practical implementations in the field of quantum information processing. Namely, we proved the existence of entanglement between two macroscopic light beams, and this entanglement is intrinsically associated to a strong coherence in an atomic medium.

id: quant-ph/0205120
title: Determination of the phase of an electromagnetic field via incoherent detection of fluorescence
authors: M.S. Shahriar, Prabhakar Pradhan, Jacob Morzinski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205120
abstract: We show that the phase of a field can be determined by incoherent detection of the population of one state of a two-level system if the Rabi frequency is comparable to the Bohr frequency so that the rotating wave approximation is inappropriate. This implies that a process employing the measurement of population is not a square-law detector in this limit. We discuss how the sensitivity of the degree of excitation to the phase of the field may pose severe constraints on precise rotations of quantum bits involving low-frequency transitions. We present a scheme for observing this effect in an atomic beam, despite the spread in the interaction time.

id: quant-ph/0205121
title: Strategies for Estimating Quantum Lossy Channels
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: The title is changed. Many materials are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205121
abstract: Due to the anisotropy of quantum lossy channels one must choose optimal bases of input states for best estimating them. In this paper, we obtain that the equal probability Schr\"{o}dinger cat states are optimal for estimating a single lossy channel and they are also the optimal bases of input states for estimating composite lossy channels. On the other hand, by using the symmetric logarithmic derivative (SLD) Fisher information of output states exported from the lossy channels we obtain that if we take the equal probability Schr\"{o}dinger cat states as the bases of input states the maximally entangled inputs are not optimal, however if the bases of the input states are not the equal probability Schr\"{o}dinger cat states the maximally entangled input states may be optimal for the estimating composite lossy channel.

id: quant-ph/0205122
title: Three Dimensional Confinement : WKB Revisited
authors: Anjana Sinha
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205122
abstract: An alternate formalism is developed to determine the energy eigenvalues of quantum mechanical systems, confined within a rigid impenetrable spherical box of radius $r_0$, in the framework of Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) approximation. Instead of considering the Langer correction for the centrifugal term, the approach adopted here is that of Hainz and Grabert : The centrifugal term is expanded perturbatively (in powers of $\hbar$), decomposing it into 2 terms -- the classical centrifugal potential and a quantum correction. Hainz and Grabert found that this method reproduced the exact energies of the hydrogen atom, to the first order in $\hbar$, with all higher order corrections vanishing. In the present study, this formalism is extended to the case of radial potentials under hard wall confinement, to check whether the same argument holds good for such confined systems as well. As explicit examples, 3 widely known potentials are studied, which are of considerable importance in the theoretical treatment of various atomic phenomena involving atomic transitions, viz., the 3-dimensional harmonic oscillator, the hydrogen atom, and the Hulthen potential.

id: quant-ph/0205123
title: Stabilization of decaying states and quantum vortices
authors: Katarzyna Krajewska, Jerzy Z. Kaminski
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205123
abstract: A two-dimensional model of an electron moving under the influence of an attractive zero-range potential as well as external magnetic and electric fields is analyzed. We prove by numerical investigations that there are formed such resonances which manifest a peculiar dependance on the electric field intensity, i.e., although the electric field increases, the lifetime of these resonance states grows up. It is explained that this phenomenon, called further \textit{the stabilization}, is a close consequence of \textit{quantum-mechanical vortices} induced by the magnetic field and controlled by the electric field strength. In order to get more information about these vortices the phase of wavefunctions as well as the probability current for these stable resonances are investigated.

id: quant-ph/0205124
title: Isospectral partners for a complex PT-invariant potential
authors: Anjana Sinha, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205124
abstract: We construct isospectral partner potentials of a complex PT-invariant potential, viz., V(x) = V_1 sech ^2 x - i V_2 sech x tanh x using Darboux's method. Oneset of isospectral potentials are obatined which can be termed 'Satellite potentials', in the sense that they are pf the same form as the original potential. In a particular case, the supersymmetric partner potential has the same spectrum, including the zero energy ground state, a fact which cannot occur in conventional supersymmetric quantum mechanics with real potential. An explicit example of a non-trivial set of isospectral potential is also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0205125
title: Quantum mechanics as the objective local theory
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: 6 pages, no figures, Latex, talk at QFTHEP'2001 Moscow Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205125
abstract: In the work it is shown that the principles "the objective local theory" and corollaries of the standard quantum mechanics are not in such antagonistic inconsistency as it is usually supposed. In the framework of algebraic approach, the postulates are formulated which allow constructing the updated mathematical scheme of quantum mechanics. This scheme incorporates the standard mathematical apparatus of quantum mechanics. Simultaneously, in it there is a mathematical object, which adequately describes individual experiment.

id: quant-ph/0205126
title: Phase-covariant quantum cloning of qudits
authors: Heng Fan, Hiroshi Imai, Keiji Matsumoto, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: Revtex, 6 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A67,022317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205126
abstract: We study the phase-covariant quantum cloning machine for qudits, i.e. the input states in d-level quantum system have complex coefficients with arbitrary phase but constant module. A cloning unitary transformation is proposed. After optimizing the fidelity between input state and single qudit reduced density opertor of output state, we obtain the optimal fidelity for 1 to 2 phase-covariant quantum cloning of qudits and the corresponding cloning transformation.

id: quant-ph/0205127
title: Selection of Squeezed States via Decoherence
authors: Gh.-S. Paraoanu
comments: Latex, 7 pages
journal: Europhys. Lett. 47 (3), pp. 279-284 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205127
abstract: In the framework of Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, we calculate the entropy of a damped quantum harmonic oscillator which is initially in a quasi-free state. The maximally predictable states are identified as those states producing the minimum entropy increase after a long enough time. In general, the states with a squeezing parameter depending on the environment's diffusion coefficients and friction constant are singled out, but if the friction constant is much smaller than the oscillator's frequency, coherent states (or thermalized coherent states) are obtained as the preferred classical states.

id: quant-ph/0205128
title: Authentication of Quantum Messages
authors: Howard Barnum, Claude Crepeau, Daniel Gottesman, Adam Smith, Alain Tapp
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX, uses amssymb, latexsym, times
journal: Proc. 43rd Annual IEEE Symposium on the Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS '02), pp. 449-458. IEEE Press, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205128
abstract: Authentication is a well-studied area of classical cryptography: a sender S and a receiver R sharing a classical private key want to exchange a classical message with the guarantee that the message has not been modified by any third party with control of the communication line. In this paper we define and investigate the authentication of messages composed of quantum states. Assuming S and R have access to an insecure quantum channel and share a private, classical random key, we provide a non-interactive scheme that enables S both to encrypt and to authenticate (with unconditional security) an m qubit message by encoding it into m+s qubits, where the failure probability decreases exponentially in the security parameter s. The classical private key is 2m+O(s) bits. To achieve this, we give a highly efficient protocol for testing the purity of shared EPR pairs. We also show that any scheme to authenticate quantum messages must also encrypt them. (In contrast, one can authenticate a classical message while leaving it publicly readable.) This has two important consequences: On one hand, it allows us to give a lower bound of 2m key bits for authenticating m qubits, which makes our protocol asymptotically optimal. On the other hand, we use it to show that digitally signing quantum states is impossible, even with only computational security.

id: quant-ph/0205129
title: Quantum information processing and quantum logic: toward mutual illumination
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205129
abstract: Quantum information and computation may serve as a source of useful axioms and ideas for the quantum logic/quantum structures project of characterizing and classifying types of physical theories, including quantum mechanics and classical mechanics. The axiomatic approach of quantum structures may help isolate what aspects of quantum mechanics are responsible for what aspects of its greater-than-classical information processing power, and whether more general physical theories may escape some common limitations of classical and quantum theories. Also, by by helping us understand how existing quantum algorithms work, quantum structures analyses may suggest new quantum protocols exploiting general features of quantum mechanics. I stress the importance, for these matters, of understanding open and closed-system dynamics, and the structure of composite systems in general frameworks for operational theories, such as effect algebras, convex sets, and related structures.

id: quant-ph/0205130
title: A Zoology of Bell inequalities resistant to detector inefficiency
authors: Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio, Jeremie Roland, Bernard Gisin
comments: 12 pages, revtex. Appendix completed, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052112 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205130
abstract: We derive both numerically and analytically Bell inequalities and quantum measurements that present enhanced resistance to detector inefficiency. In particular we describe several Bell inequalities which appear to be optimal with respect to inefficient detectors for small dimensionality d=2,3,4 and 2 or more measurement settings at each side. We also generalize the family of Bell inequalities described in Collins et all (Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 040404) to take into account the inefficiency of detectors. In addition we consider the possibility for pairs of entangled particles to be produced with probability less than one. We show that when the pair production probability is small, one must in general use different Bell inequalities than when the pair production probability is high.

id: quant-ph/0205131
title: Nonlocality of Hardy type in experiments using independent particle sources
authors: Xu-Bo Zou, Hai-Woong Lee, Jaewan Kim, Jae-Weon Lee, Eok Kyun Lee
comments: 9 pages, 1 fig, revtex, title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205131
abstract: By applying Hardy's argument, we demonstrate the violation of local realism in a gedanken experiment using independent and separated particle sources.

id: quant-ph/0205132
title: Quantum processes on phase space
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 53 pages, latex. Minor corrections - final version to appear in Ann. Phys
journal: Annals Phys. 303 (2003) 275-320
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205132
abstract: Quantum theory predicts probabilities as well as relative phases between different alternatives of the system. A unified description of both probabilities and phases comes through a generalisation of the notion of a density matrix for histories; this object is the decoherence functional of the consistent histories approach. If we take phases as well as probabilities as primitive elements of our theory, we abandon Kolmogorov probability and can describe quantum theory in terms of fundamental commutative observables, without being obstructed by Bell's and related theorems. Generalising the theory of stochastic processes, we develop the description of relative phases and probabilities for paths on the classical phase space. This description provides a theory of quantum processes. We identify a number of basic postulates and study its corresponding properties. We strongly emphasise the notion of conditioning and are able to write ``quantum differential equations'' as analogous to stochastic differential equations. These can be interpreted as referring to individual systems. We, then, show the sense in which quantum theory is equivalent to a quantum process on phase space (using coherent states). Conversely, starting from quantum processes on phase space we recover standard quantum theory on Hilbert space from the requirement that the process satisfies (the Markov property together with time reversibility. The statistical predictions of our theory are identical to the ones of standard quantum theory, but the ``logic'' of events is Boolean; events are not represented by projectors any more. We discuss some implication of this fact for the interpretation of quantum theory, emphasising that it makes plausible the existence of realist theories for individual quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0205133
title: Adaptive Quantum Computation, Constant Depth Quantum Circuits and Arthur-Merlin Games
authors: Barbara M. Terhal, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: Substantially revised version, 13 pages, 1 figure, to appear in QIC. Small correction in Theorem 1 added
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 4 (No. 2), pages 134--145 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205133
abstract: We present evidence that there exist quantum computations that can be carried out in constant depth, using 2-qubit gates, that cannot be simulated classically with high accuracy. We prove that if one can simulate these circuits classically efficiently then the complexity class BQP is contained in AM.

id: quant-ph/0205134
title: IR control of atoms laser instability
authors: L. M. Castellano, H. Vinck
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. RevTex 4. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205134
abstract: In this paper we show how to control the quantum laser atoms instability using IR radiation. The control can be achieved by controlling the scattering length constant via the infrared coupling constant. This method is applied in the scheme of a continuous CW laser and involves three occupation levels in the condensed atoms.This atoms in Lambda configuration the description of which is given by a Reformed Gross-Pitaevskii equation (RGPE), together with a rate equation.The system is taken to a nonconservative complex Ginzburg Landau equation (CGLE) description from where we use the Benjamin-Feir stability criterium.This method allows us a theoretical construction of any atom laser even for negative interaction constant as is the case of $^{7}Li$.

id: quant-ph/0205135
title: A switchable controlled-NOT gate in a spin-chain NMR quantum computer
authors: Atsushi Goto, Tadashi Shimizu, Kenjiro Hashi, Hideaki Kitazawa
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 67, 022312 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205135
abstract: A method of switching a controlled-NOT gate in a solid-stae NMR quantum computer is presented. Qubits of I=1/2 nuclear spins are placed periodically along a quantum spin chain (1-D antiferromagnet) having a singlet ground state with a finite spin gap to the lowest excited state caused by some quantum effect. Irradiation of a microwave tuned to the spin gap energy excites a packet of triplet magnons at a specific part of the chain where control and target qubits are involved. The packet switches on the Suhl-Nakamura interaction between the qubits, which serves as a controlled NOT gate. The qubit initialization is achieved by a qubit initializer consisting of semiconducting sheets attached to the spin chain, where spin polarizations created by the optical pumping method in the semiconductors are transferred to the spin chain. The scheme allows us to separate the initialization process from the computation, so that one can optimize the computation part without being restricted by the initialization scheme, which provides us with a wide selection of materials for a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0205136
title: Quantum time-of-flight measurements: kick clock versus continuous clock
authors: D. Alonso, R. Sala Mayato, J. G. Muga
comments: 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205136
abstract: The measurement of time durations or instants of ocurrence of events has been frequently modelled ``operationally'' by coupling the system of interest to a ``clock''. According to several of these models the operational approach is limited at low energies because the perturbation of the clock does not allow to reproduce accurately the corresponding ideal time quantity, defined for the system in isolation. We show that, for a time-of-flight measurement model that can be set to measure dwell or arrival times, these limitations may be overcome by extending the range of energies where the clock works properly using pulsed couplings rather than continuous ones.

id: quant-ph/0205137
title: Comparing Quantum Entanglement and Topological Entanglement
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco
comments: 26 pages, 13 figures, LaTeX document, LaTeX graphics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205137
abstract: This paper discusses relationships between topological entanglement and quantum entanglement. Specifically, we propose that for this comparison it is fundamental to view topological entanglements such as braids as "entanglement operators" and to associate to them unitary operators that are capable of creating quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0205138
title: A Tight Bound for Probability of Error for Quantum Counting Based Multiuser Detection
authors: Sandor Imre, Ferenc Balazs
comments: presented at IEEE ISIT 2002, 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205138
abstract: Future wired and wireless communication systems will employ pure or combined Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) technique, such as in the European 3G mobile UMTS or Power Line Telecommunication system, but also several 4G proposal includes e.g. multi carrier (MC) CDMA. Former examinations carried out the drawbacks of single user detectors (SUD), which are widely employed in narrowband IS-95 CDMA systems, and forced to develop suitable multiuser detection schemes to increase the efficiency against interference. However, at this moment there are only suboptimal solutions available because of the rather high complexity of optimal detectors. One of the possible receiver technologies can be the quantum assisted computing devices which allows high level parallelism in computation. The first commercial devices are estimated for the next years, which meets the advert of 3G and 4G systems. In this paper we analyze the error probability and give tight bounds in a static and dynamically changing environment for a novel quantum computation based Quantum Multiuser detection (QMUD) algorithm, employing quantum counting algorithm, which provides optimal solution.

id: quant-ph/0205139
title: Fredkin Gates for Finite-valued Reversible and Conservative Logics
authors: Gianpiero Cattaneo, Alberto Leporati, Roberto Leporini
comments: 57 pages, 10 figures, 16 tables, 2 diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205139
abstract: The basic principles and results of Conservative Logic introduced by Fredkin and Toffoli on the basis of a seminal paper of Landauer are extended to d-valued logics, with a special attention to three-valued logics. Different approaches to d-valued logics are examined in order to determine some possible universal sets of logic primitives. In particular, we consider the typical connectives of Lukasiewicz and Godel logics, as well as Chang's MV-algebras. As a result, some possible three-valued and d-valued universal gates are described which realize a functionally complete set of fundamental connectives.

id: quant-ph/0205140
title: Tailoring Single and Multiphoton Probabilities of a Single Photon On-Demand Source
authors: A. L. Migdall, D. Branning, S. Castelletto, M. Ware
comments: 4 pages, LaTex, 2 figures, twocolumn and RevTex Style for PRL
journal: PRA 66 053805(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205140
abstract: As typically implemented, single photon sources cannot be made to produce single photons with high probability, while simultaneously suppressing the probability of yielding two or more photons. Because of this, single photon sources cannot really produce single photons on demand. We describe a multiplexed system that allows the probabilities of producing one and more photons to be adjusted independently, enabling a much better approximation of a source of single photons on demand.

id: quant-ph/0205141
title: State Vectors and Physical States
authors: William N. Watson
comments: 103 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Essays 13 (2000) 15-45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205141
abstract: Causality and the relativity of simultaneity seem at odds with the apparently sudden, acausal state-vector changes ("collapses") characteristic of quantum phenomena. The problem of how physical phenomena can be causally determined, have the probabilities predicted by quantum theory, and be consistent with special relativity appears to be solved by the assumption, essentially the same as one first used by Aharonov, Bergmann, and Lebowitz to address a different problem, that the "initial" and "final" state vectors of a phenomenon or observation, along with certain other state vectors, all represent the system's state at all times. Each member of such an aggregate of state vectors is postulated to represent a different aspect of a physical state rather than a state, so that most of the state vectors in effect constitute a set of nonlocal hidden variables. Various implications of this assumption are illustrated through several physical situations. Among the results is a somewhat surprising resolution of a paradox in a three-spin Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger experiment (a "three-particle EPR" experiment), which involves a logical consequence that differs from familiar ideas of quantum physics that has no practical experimental consequence, and the prediction of new experimental phenomena related to the Zou-Wang-Mandel superposed-idler system. The potential value of the concepts described as heuristics for new predictions and for developing physical intuition by clarifying the interrelation and coherence of physical principles that would otherwise seem contradictory is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205142
title: Quantum and Classical Noise in Practical Quantum Cryptography Systems based on polarization-entangled photons
authors: S. Castelletto, I. P. Degiovanni, M. L. Rastello
comments: Rev Tex Style, 2 columns, 7 figures, (a modified version will appear on PRA)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205142
abstract: Quantum-cryptography key distribution (QCKD) experiments have been recently reported using polarization-entangled photons. However, in any practical realization, quantum systems suffer from either unwanted or induced interactions with the environment and the quantum measurement system, showing up as quantum and, ultimately, statistical noise. In this paper, we investigate how ideal polarization entanglement in spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) suffers quantum noise in its practical implementation as a secure quantum system, yielding errors in the transmitted bit sequence. Because all SPDC-based QCKD schemes rely on the measurement of coincidence to assert the bit transmission between the two parties, we bundle up the overall quantum and statistical noise in an exhaustive model to calculate the accidental coincidences. This model predicts the quantum-bit error rate and the sifted key and allows comparisons between different security criteria of the hitherto proposed QCKD protocols, resulting in an objective assessment of performances and advantages of different systems.

id: quant-ph/0205143
title: The Harmonic Oscillator in the Plane and the Jordan-Schwinger Algebras
authors: Rabin Banerjee, Pradip Mukherjee
comments: Revtex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205143
abstract: The direct and indirect Lagrangian representations of the planar harmonic oscillator have been discussed. The reduction of these Lagrangians in their basic forms characterising either chiral, or pseudo - chiral oscillators have been given. A Hamiltonian analysis, showing its equivalence with the Lagrangian formalism has also been provided. Finally, we show that the chiral and pseudo - chiral modes act as dynamical structures behind the Jordan - Schwinger realizations of the SU(2) and SU(1,1) algebras. Also, the SU(1,1) construction found here is different from the standard Jordan - Schwinger form.

id: quant-ph/0205144
title: Femtosecond Time-Bin Entangled Qubits for Quantum Communication
authors: Ivan Marcikic, Hugues de Riedmatten, Wolfgang Tittel, Valerio Scarani, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66,062308 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205144
abstract: We create pairs of non-degenerate time-bin entangled photons at telecom wavelengths with ultra-short pump pulses. Entanglement is shown by performing Bell kind tests of the Franson type with visibilities of up to 91%. As time-bin entanglement can easily be protected from decoherence as encountered in optical fibers, this experiment opens the road for complex quantum communication protocols over long distances. We also investigate the creation of more than one photon pair in a laser pulse and present a simple tool to quantify the probability of such events to happen.

id: quant-ph/0205145
title: On Integrability of Many-Body Problems with Point Interactions
authors: S. Albeverio, S.M. Fei, P. Kurasov
comments: 10 pages
journal: Operator Theory: Advances and Applications, 132(2002)67-76
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205145
abstract: A study of the integrability of one-dimensional quantum mechanical many-body systems with general point interactions and boundary conditions describing the interactions which can be independent or dependent on the spin states of the particles is presented. The corresponding Bethe ansatz solutions, bound states and scattering matrices are explicitly given. Hamilton operators corresponding to special spin dependent boundary conditions are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205146
title: Phases of quantum states in completely positive non-unitary evolution
authors: J. G. Peixoto de Faria, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza, M. C. Nemes
comments: 2 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 62(6), 782 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205146
abstract: We define an operational notion of phases in interferometry for a quantum system undergoing a completely positive non-unitary evolution. This definition is based on the concepts of quantum measurement theory. The suitable generalization of the Pancharatnan connection allows us to determine the dynamical and geometrical parts of the total phase between two states linked by a completely positive map. These results reduce to the knonw expressions of total, dynamical and geometrical phases for pure and mixed states evolving unitarily.

id: quant-ph/0205147
title: Schrodinger's cat and the problem of two cultures
authors: Ivan Vakarchuk
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205147
abstract: A mathematical model of the interaction mechanism for the intuitive-imaginative and heuristic-logical thinking responsible for the rift in the intellectual activity into two cultures has been suggested. The said model proceeds from the assumption that human thinking is based on the principles of the many-channel quantum-mechanical logic of the "both ... and" type surpassing the rigid confines of the "either ... or" type classical logic. The aggregate product of the person equally endowed in the said two-cultural space has been calculated. The interferential part of the latter achieves its maximum at the extreme values of such parameters as the inter-state exchange frequency and the difference of the states phases.

id: quant-ph/0205148
title: Quantum sensitive dependence
authors: V. I. Man'ko, R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 12 pages, Latex
journal: Physics Letters A 300 (2002) 353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205148
abstract: Wave functions of bounded quantum systems with time-independent potentials, being almost periodic functions, cannot have time asymptotics as in classical chaos. However, bounded quantum systems with time-dependent interactions, as used in quantum control, may have continuous spectrum and the rate of growth of observables is an issue of both theoretical and practical concern. Rates of growth in quantum mechanics are discussed by constructing quantities with the same physical meaning as those involved in the classical Lyapunov exponent. A generalized notion of quantum sensitive dependence is introduced and the mathematical structure of the operator matrix elements that correspond to different types of growth is characterized.

id: quant-ph/0205149
title: Experimental Quantum Cloning of Single Photons
authors: Antia Lamas-Linares, Christoph Simon, John C. Howell, Dik Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Science 296, 712 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205149
abstract: Although perfect copying of unknown quantum systems is forbidden by the laws of quantum mechanics, approximate cloning is possible. A natural way of realizing quantum cloning of photons is by stimulated emission. In this context the fundamental quantum limit to the quality of the clones is imposed by the unavoidable presence of spontaneous emission. In our experiment a single input photon stimulates the emission of additional photons from a source based on parametric down-conversion. This leads to the production of quantum clones with near optimal fidelity. We also demonstrate universality of the copying procedure by showing that the same fidelity is achieved for arbitrary input states.

id: quant-ph/0205150
title: Single qubit estimation from repeated unsharp measurements
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 8pp, 3 figures, talk at 9th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 51 (2003) 96-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205150
abstract: When estimating an unknown single pure qubit state, the optimum fidelity is 2/3. As it is well known, the value 2/3 can be achieved in one step, by a single ideal measurement of the polarization along a random direction. I analyze the opposite strategy which is the long sequence of unsharp polarization measurements. The evolution of the qubit under the influence of repeated measurements is quite complicated in the general case. Fortunately, in a certain limit of very unsharp measurements the qubit will obey simple stochastic evolution equations known for long under the name of time-continuous measurement theory. I discuss how the outcomes of the very unsharp measurements will asymptotically contribute to our knowledge of the original qubit. It is reassuring that the fidelity will achieve the optimum 2/3 for long enough sequences of the unsharp measurements.

id: quant-ph/0205151
title: Nonclassicality and information exchange in deterministic entanglement formation
authors: M. C. de Oliveira, W. J. Munro
comments: Replaced by the accepted version. Two optical implementations of the quantum resource conversion protocol are now proposed. To appear in Phys. Lett. A. 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 320/5-6, 352 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205151
abstract: We discuss the role of nonclassicality of quantum states as a necessary resource in deterministic generation of multipartite entangled states. In particular for three bilinearly coupled modes of the electromagnetic field, tuning of the coupling constants between the parties allows the total system to evolve into both Bell and GHZ states only when one of the parties is initially prepared in a nonclassical state. A superposition resource is then converted into an entanglement resource.

id: quant-ph/0205152
title: Adiabatic Theory of Nonlinear Evolution of Quantum States
authors: Jie Liu, Biao Wu, Qian Niu
comments: substantial revision, 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 170404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205152
abstract: We present a general theory for adiabatic evolution of quantum states as governed by the nonlinear Schrodinger equation, and provide examples of applications with a nonlinear tunneling model for Bose-Einstein condensates. Our theory not only spells out conditions for adiabatic evolution of eigenstates, but also characterizes the motion of non-eigenstates which cannot be obtained from the former in the absence of the superposition principle. We find that in the adiabatic evolution of non-eigenstates, the Aharonov-Anandan phases play the role of classical canonical actions.

id: quant-ph/0205153
title: Revealing non-classical behaviours in the oscillatory motion of a trapped ion
authors: B.Militello, A.Messina, A.Napoli
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205153
abstract: The possibility of revealing non-classical behaviours in the dynamics of a trapped ion via measurements of the mean value of suitable operators is reported. In particular we focus on the manifestation known as `` Parity Effect\rq\rq which may be observed \emph{directly measuring} the expectation value of an appropriate correlation operator. The experimental feasibility of our proposal is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205154
title: The intensity correlation function of "blinking" quantum systems
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Dirk Seidel
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, uses iopams.sty
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclass. Opt. 4, 245 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205154
abstract: Explicit expressions are determined for the photon correlation function of ``blinking'' quantum systems, i.e. systems with different types of fluorescent periods. These expressions can be used for a fit to experimental data and for obtaining system parameters therefrom. For two dipole-dipole interacting $V$ systems the dependence on the dipole coupling constant is explicitly given and shown to be particularly pronounced if the strong driving is reduced. We propose to use this for an experimental verification of the dipole-dipole interaction.

id: quant-ph/0205155
title: Information-disturbance tradeoff in quantum measurement on the uniform ensemble and on the mutually unbiased bases
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: 39 pages, LaTeX, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205155
abstract: I consider the tradeoff between the information gained about an initially unknown quantum state, and the disturbance caused to that state by the measurement process. I show that for any distribution of initial states, the information-disturbance frontier is convex, and disturbance is nondecreasing with information gain. I consider the most general model of quantum measurements, and all post-measurement dynamics compatible with a given measurement. For the uniform initial distribution over states, I show that the least-disturbing way of making any measurement is with conditional dynamics satisfying a generalization of the projection postulate, the ``square-root dynamics.'' Thus, procedures for achieving a point on the information-disturbance frontier may be assumed to involve such conditional dynamics. Also, the information-disturbance frontier for the uniform ensemble may be achieved with ``isotropic'' (unitarily covariant) dynamics. This results in a significant simplification of the optimization problem for calculating the tradeoff in this case, giving hope for a closed-form solution. I also show that the discrete ensembles uniform on the d(d+1) vectors of a certain set of d+1 ``mutually unbiased'' or conjugate bases in d dimensions form spherical 2-designs in CP_{d-1} when d is a power of an odd prime. This implies that many of the results of the paper apply also to these discrete ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0205156
title: Empirical Determination of Bang-Bang Operations
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 14 pages, 2 eps figures, ReVTeX4 two-column
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012324 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205156
abstract: Strong and fast "bang-bang" (BB) pulses have been recently proposed as a means for reducing decoherence in a quantum system. So far theoretical analysis of the BB technique relied on model Hamiltonians. Here we introduce a method for empirically determining the set of required BB pulses, that relies on quantum process tomography. In this manner an experimenter may tailor his or her BB pulses to the quantum system at hand, without having to assume a model Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0205157
title: Bell Inequalities in Phase Space and their Violation in Quantum Mechanics
authors: G. Auberson, G. Mahoux, S.M. Roy, Virendra Singh
comments: 11 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205157
abstract: We derive ``Bell inequalities'' in four dimensional phase space and prove the following ``three marginal theorem'' for phase space densities $\rho(\overrightarrow{q},\overrightarrow{p})$, thus settling a long standing conjecture : ``there exist quantum states for which more than three of the quantum probability distributions for $(q_1,q_2)$, $(p_1,p_2)$, $(q_1,p_2)$ and $(p_1,q_2)$ cannot be reproduced as marginals of a positive $\rho(\overrightarrow{q},\overrightarrow{p})$''. We also construct the most general positive $\rho(\overrightarrow{q},\overrightarrow{p})$ which reproduces any three of the above quantum probability densities for arbitrary quantum states. This is crucial for the construction of a maximally realistic quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0205158
title: Steep optical wave group velocity reduction and storage of light without electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: M. Kozuma, D. Akasmatsu, L. Deng, E.W. Hagley, M.G. Payne
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. on December 21, 2001 (To replace the original submital in which equations were not ip-loaded properly)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205158
abstract: We report experimental investigationd of optical pulse group velocity reduction and probe pulse regeneration using a Raman scheme. The new scheme which does not rely on the on-one-photon resonance electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), has many advantages over the conventional method which critically relys on the transparency window created by an EIT process. We demonstrate significant reduction of group velocity, less probe field loss, reduced probe pulse distortion, and high probe pulse regeneration efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0205159
title: Quantum mechanics in finite dimensional Hilbert space
authors: A. C. de la Torre, D. Goyeneche
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Am. J.Phys. 71, 49-54, 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205159
abstract: The quantum mechanical formalism for position and momentum of a particle in a one dimensional cyclic lattice is constructively developed. Some mathematical features characteristic of the finite dimensional Hilbert space are compared with the infinite dimensional case. The construction of an unbiased basis for state determination is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205160
title: Generalization of geometric phase to completely positive maps
authors: Marie Ericsson, Erik Sj?qvist, Johan Br?nnlund, Daniel K.L. Oi, Arun K. Pati
comments: Minor revision. 2 authors added. 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 67, 020101(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205160
abstract: We generalize the notion of relative phase to completely positive maps with known unitary representation, based on interferometry. Parallel transport conditions that define the geometric phase for such maps are introduced. The interference effect is embodied in a set of interference patterns defined by flipping the environment state in one of the two paths. We show for the qubit that this structure gives rise to interesting additional information about the geometry of the evolution defined by the CP map.

id: quant-ph/0205161
title: Contextualizing Concepts using a Mathematical Generalization of the Quantum Formalism
authors: Liane Gabora, Diederik Aerts
comments: 44 pages
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, 14, pp. 327-358 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205161
abstract: We outline the rationale and preliminary results of using the State Context Property (SCOP) formalism, originally developed as a generalization of quantum mechanics, to describe the contextual manner in which concepts are evoked, used, and combined to generate meaning. The quantum formalism was developed to cope with problems arising in the description of (1) the measurement process, and (2) the generation of new states with new properties when particles become entangled. Similar problems arising with concepts motivated the formal treatment introduced here. Concepts are viewed not as fixed representations, but entities existing in states of potentiality that require interaction with a context--a stimulus or another concept--to 'collapse' to an instantiated form (e.g. exemplar, prototype, or other possibly imaginary instance). The stimulus situation plays the role of the measurement in physics, acting as context that induces a change of the cognitive state from superposition state to collapsed state. The collapsed state is more likely to consist of a conjunction of concepts for associative than analytic thought because more stimulus or concept properties take part in the collapse. We provide two contextual measures of conceptual distance--one using collapse probabilities and the other weighted properties--and show how they can be applied to conjunctions using the pet fish problem

id: quant-ph/0205162
title: The Linearity of Quantum Mechanics at Stake: The Description of Separated Quantum Entities
authors: Diederik Aerts, Frank Valckenborgh
comments: 29 pages
journal: In 'Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Computation and Axiomatics, eds. D. Aerts, M. Czachor and T. Durt, World Scientific, Singapore (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205162
abstract: We consider the situation of a physical entity that is the compound entity consisting of two 'separated' quantum entities. In earlier work it has been proven by one of the authors that such a physical entity cannot be described by standard quantum mechanics. More precisely, it was shown that two of the axioms of traditional quantum axiomatics are at the origin of the impossibility for standard quantum mechanics to describe this type of compound entity. One of these axioms is equivalent with the superposition principle, which means that separated quantum entities put the linearity of quantum mechanics at stake. We analyze the conceptual steps that are involved in this proof, and expose the necessary material of quantum axiomatics to be able to understand the argument

id: quant-ph/0205163
title: Connectedness Applied to Closure Spaces and State Property Systems
authors: Diederik Aerts, Didier Deses, An Van der Voorde
comments: 8 pages
journal: Journal of Electrical Engineering, 52, 18 - 21, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205163
abstract: In earlier work a description of a physical entity is given by means of a state property system and it is proven that any state property system is equivalent to a closure space. In the present paper we investigate the relations between classical properties and connectedness for closure spaces. The main result is a decomposition theorem, which allows us to split a state property system into a number of 'pure nonclassical state property systems' and a 'totally classical state property system'

id: quant-ph/0205164
title: Being and Change: Foundations of a Realistic Operational Formalism
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 44 pages
journal: In 'Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Computation and Axiomatics, eds. D. Aerts, M. Czachor and T. Durt, World Scientific, Singapore (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205164
abstract: The aim of this article is to represent the general description of an entity by means of its states, contexts and properties. The entity that we want to describe does not necessarily have to be a physical entity, but can also be an entity of a more abstract nature, for example a concept, or a cultural artifact, or the mind of a person, etc..., which means that we aim at very general description. The effect that a context has on the state of the entity plays a fundamental role, which means that our approach is intrinsically contextual. The approach is inspired by the mathematical formalisms that have been developed in axiomatic quantum mechanics, where a specific type of quantum contextuality is modelled. However, because in general states also influence context -- which is not the case in quantum mechanics -- we need a more general setting than the one used there. Our focus on context as a fundamental concept makes it possible to unify `dynamical change' and `change under influence of measurement', which makes our approach also more general and more powerful than the traditional quantum axiomatic approaches. For this reason an experiment (or measurement) is introduced as a specific kind of context. Mathematically we introduce a state context property system as the structure to describe an entity by means of its states, contexts and properties. We also strive from the start to a categorical setting and derive the morphisms between state context property systems from a merological covariance principle. We introduce the category SCOP with as elements the state context property systems and as morphisms the ones that we derived from this merological covariance principle. We introduce property completeness and state completeness and study the operational foundation of the formalism

id: quant-ph/0205165
title: Reality and Probability: Introducing a New Type of Probability Calculus
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 27 pages
journal: In 'Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlocality, Computation and Axiomatics, eds. D. Aerts, M. Czachor and T. Durt, World Scientific, Singapore (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205165
abstract: We consider a conception of reality that is the following: An object is 'real' if we know that if we would try to test whether this object is present, this test would give us the answer 'yes' with certainty. If we consider a conception of reality where probability plays a fundamental role it can be shown that standard probability theory is not well suited to substitute 'certainty' by means of 'probability equal to 1'. The analysis of this problem leads us to propose a new type of probability theory that is a generalization of standard probability theory. This new type of probability is a function to the set of all subsets of the interval [0, 1] instead of to the interval [0, 1] itself, and hence its evaluation happens by means of a subset instead of a number. This subset corresponds to the different limits of sequences of relative frequency that can arise when an intrinsic lack of knowledge about the context and how it influences the state of the physical entity under study in the process of experimentation is taken into account. The new probability theory makes it possible to define probability on the whole set of experiments within the Geneva-Brussels approach to quantum mechanics, which was not possible with standard probability theory. We introduce the structure of a 'state experiment probability system' and derive the state property system as a special case of this structure. The category SEP of state experiment probability systems and their morphisms is linked with the category SP of state property systems and their morphisms

id: quant-ph/0205166
title: Linearity and Compound Physical Systems: The Case of Two Separated Spin 1/2 Entities
authors: Diederik Aerts, Frank Valckenborgh
comments: 25 pages
journal: In 'Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Computation and Axiomatics, eds. D. Aerts, M. Czachor and T. Durt, World Scientific, Singapore (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205166
abstract: We illustrate some problems that are related to the existence of an underlying linear structure at the level of the property lattice associated with a physical system, for the particular case of two explicitly separated spin 1/2 objects that are considered, and mathematically described, as one compound system. It is shown that the separated product of the property lattices corresponding with the two spin 1/2 objects does not have an underlying linear structure, although the property lattices associated with the subobjects in isolation manifestly do. This is related at a fundamental level to the fact that separated products do not behave well with respect to the covering law (and orthomodularity) of elementary lattice theory. In addition, we discuss the orthogonality relation associated with the separated product in general and consider the related problem of the behavior of the corresponding Sasaki projections as partial state space mappings

id: quant-ph/0205167
title: Determination of quantum instrument parameters for a Stern-Gerlach non-ideal device
authors: Ioan Sturzu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205167
abstract: The paper identifies and determines some parameters with experimental relevance, which could describe the influence of the non-ideality for the measurement of the intrinsic spin of an atom, using a real Stern-Gerlach device.

id: quant-ph/0205168
title: Metrics Fluctuational Theory
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205168
abstract: It is supposed the alternative to Quantum Mechanics Axiomatic. Fluctuational Theory save the Mathematics of Quantum Mechanic without change, naming this Mathematics as Method of Indirect Computation. Fluctuational Theory is delete the axiomatic of Quantum Mechanics and replaces it by the assumption of Gravitational Noise. This assumption is connects the Method of Indirect Computation to the Classical Physics. Physical fluctuations of classical gravitational fields are mathematically expressed through geometric fluctuations of metrics of Riemann Space. Metrics Fluctuational Theory and Quantum Mechanic is describe the classical experiment of electrons interference by two different way.

id: quant-ph/0205169
title: Entanglement concentration of continuous variable quantum states
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Ladislav Mista, Jr., Radim Filip
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022304 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205169
abstract: We propose two probabilistic entanglement concentration schemes for a single copy of two-mode squeezed vacuum state. The first scheme is based on the off-resonant interaction of a Rydberg atom with the cavity field while the second setup involves the cross Kerr interaction, auxiliary mode prepared in a strong coherent state and a homodyne detection. We show that the continuous-variable entanglement concentration allows us to improve the fidelity of teleportation of coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0205170
title: Exact solutions of time-dependent three-generator systems
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Hong-Yi Zhu, Pan Chen
comments: 16 pages,no figer
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205170
abstract: There exist a number of typical and interesting systems or models which possess three-generator Lie-algebraic structure in atomic physics, quantum optics, nuclear physics and laser physics. The well-known fact that all simple 3-generator algebras are either isomorphic to the algebra $sl(2,C)$ or to one of its real forms enables us to treat these time-dependent quantum systems in a unified way. By making use of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory and the invariant-related unitary transformation formulation, the present paper obtains exact solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equations governing various three-generator quantum systems. For some quantum systems whose time-dependent Hamiltonians have no quasialgebraic structures, we show that the exact solutions can also be obtained by working in a sub-Hilbert-space corresponding to a particular eigenvalue of the conserved generator (i.e., the time-independent invariant that commutes with the time-dependent Hamiltonian). The topological property of geometric phase factors in time-dependent systems is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0205171
title: Entangled photons, nonlocality and Bell inequalities in the undergraduate laboratory
authors: Dietrich Dehlinger, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205171
abstract: We use polarization-entangled photon pairs to demonstrate quantum nonlocality in an experiment suitable for advanced undergraduates. The photons are produced by spontaneous parametric downconversion using a violet diode laser and two nonlinear crystals. The polarization state of the photons is tunable. Using an entangled state analogous to that described in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen ``paradox,'' we demonstrate strong polarization correlations of the entanged photons. Bell's idea of a hidden variable theory is presented by way of an example and compared to the quantum prediction. A test of the Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt version of the Bell inequality finds $S = 2.307 \pm 0.035$, in clear contradiciton of hidden variable theories. The experiments described can be performed in an afternoon.

id: quant-ph/0205172
title: Entangled photon apparatus for the undergraduate laboratory
authors: Dietrich Dehlinger, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205172
abstract: We present detailed instructions for constructing and operating an apparatus to produce and detect polarization-entangled photons. The source operates by type-I spontaneous parametric downconversion in a two-crystal geometry. Photons are detected in coincidence by single-photon counting modules and show strong angular and polarization correlations. We observe more than 100 entangled photon pairs per second. A test of a Bell inequality can be performed in an afternoon.

id: quant-ph/0205173
title: Decoherence in quantum open systems revisited
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205173
abstract: The following statements belonging to the folklore of the theory of environmental decoherence are shown to be incorrect: 1) linear coupling to harmonic oscillator bath is a universal model of decoherence, 2) chaotic environments are more efficient decoherers.

id: quant-ph/0205174
title: Scalable solid-state quantum processor using subradiant two-atom states
authors: David Petrosyan, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 207902 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205174
abstract: We propose a realization of a scalable, high-performance quantum processor whose qubits are represented by the ground and subradiant states of effective dimers formed by pairs of two-level systems coupled by resonant dipole-dipole interaction. The dimers are implanted in low-temperature solid host material at controllable nanoscale separations. The two-qubit entanglement either relies on the coherent excitation exchange between the dimers or is mediated by external laser fields.

id: quant-ph/0205175
title: Multi-object searching algorithm using subgrouped oracles
authors: Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Che-Ming Li, Der-San Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205175
abstract: We present in this work, if a set of well organized suboracles is available, an algorithm for multiobject search with certainty in an unsorted database of $N$ items. Depending on the number of the objects, the technique of phase tunning is included in the algorithm. If one single object is to be searched, this algorithm performs a factor of two improvement over the best algorithm for a classical sorted database. While if the number of the objects is larger than one, the algorithm requires slightly less than $\log_{4}N$ queries, but no classical counterpart exists since the resulting state is a superposition of the marked states.

id: quant-ph/0205176
title: Scheme for preparation of mulipartite entanglement of atomic ensembles
authors: Peng Xue, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 67, 034302, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205176
abstract: We describe an experimental scheme of preparing multipartite W class of maximally entangled states between many atomic ensembles. The scheme is based on laser manipulation of atomic ensembles and single-photon detection, and well fits the status of the current experimental technology. In addition, we show one of the applications of the kind of W class states, teleporting an entangled state of atomic ensembles with unknown coefficients to more than one distant parties, either one of which equally likely receives the transmitted state.

id: quant-ph/0205177
title: Interpretation of the Five Dimensional Quantum Propagation of a Spinless Massless Particle
authors: Romulus Breban
comments: Contains 22 pages and 4 figures. The manuscript was accepted for publication in Progress of Theoretical Physics. Typos were corrected in the current version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205177
abstract: We consider a five dimensional (5D) space-time with a space-like fifth dimension. We implement a quantum formalism by path integrals, and postulate that all the physical information on a 5D massless particle propagation is provided by the statistics over null paths in this 5D space-time. If the 5D metric is independent of the fifth coordinate, then the propagation problem can be reduced to four dimensions by foliation along the fifth coordinate, and we obtain a formulation of 4D Quantum Mechanics. If the 5D metric is independent of time, we foliate along the time coordinate, and obtain a formulation of 4D Statistical Mechanics. If the 5D metric is independent of both time and the fifth coordinate, then Quantum and Statistical Mechanics are pictures of the same 5D reality. We also discuss the foliation of a proper space dimension, the Klein-Gordon equation, and a 5D Special Relativity, completing our interpretation of the 5D geometry.

id: quant-ph/0205178
title: Designing Optimal Quantum Detectors Via Semidefinite Programming
authors: Yonina C. Eldar, Alexandre Megretski, George C. Verghese
comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 49, pp. 1017-1012, Apr. 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205178
abstract: We consider the problem of designing an optimal quantum detector to minimize the probability of a detection error when distinguishing between a collection of quantum states, represented by a set of density operators. We show that the design of the optimal detector can be formulated as a semidefinite programming problem. Based on this formulation, we derive a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for an optimal quantum measurement. We then show that the optimal measurement can be found by solving a standard (convex) semidefinite program followed by the solution of a set of linear equations or, at worst, a standard linear programming problem. By exploiting the many well-known algorithms for solving semidefinite programs, which are guaranteed to converge to the global optimum, the optimal measurement can be computed very efficiently in polynomial time. Using the semidefinite programming formulation, we also show that the rank of each optimal measurement operator is no larger than the rank of the corresponding density operator. In particular, if the quantum state ensemble is a pure-state ensemble consisting of (not necessarily independent) rank-one density operators, then we show that the optimal measurement is a pure-state measurement consisting of rank-one measurement operators.

id: quant-ph/0205179
title: Quantum Entanglement of Moving Bodies
authors: Robert M. Gingrich, Christoph Adami
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. An error was corrected in the numerical data and hence the discussion of the data was changed. Also, references were added. Another example was added to the paper
journal: Phys.Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) 270402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205179
abstract: We study the properties of quantum information and quantum entanglement in moving frames. We show that the entanglement between the spins and the momenta of two particles can be interchanged under a Lorentz transformation, so that a pair of particles that is entangled in spin but not momentum in one reference frame, may, in another frame, be entangled in momentum at the expense of spin-entanglement. Similarly, entanglement between momenta may be transferred to spin under a Lorentz transformation. While spin and momentum entanglement each is not Lorentz invariant, the joint entanglement of the wave function is.

id: quant-ph/0205180
title: Synthesizing NMR analogues of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen states using generalized Grover's algorithm
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Zhiheng Lu, Lu Shan, Zhiwei Deng
comments: 18 pages,2 figures. Reviews are welcomed zhangjfu2000@yahoo.com
journal: Phys. Rev. A, scheduled issue:01 Nov. 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205180
abstract: By designing a proper unitary operator U, we synthesize NMR analogues of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen states (pseudo-EPR states) using generalized Grover's algorithm on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. Experiments also demonstrate generalized Grover's algorithm for the case in which there are multiple marked states.

id: quant-ph/0205181
title: Relations for classical communication capacity and entanglement capability of two-qubit operations
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 67, 040302(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205181
abstract: Bipartite operations underpin both classical communication and entanglement generation. Using a superposition of classical messages, we show that the capacity of a two-qubit operation for error-free entanglement-assisted bidirectional classical communication can not exceed twice the entanglement capability. In addition we show that any bipartite two-qubit operation can increase the communication that may be performed using an ensemble by twice the entanglement capability.

id: quant-ph/0205182
title: Time-Reversed EPR and the Choice of Histories in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Avshalom C. Elitzur, Shahar Dolev, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Presented at the Solvay Conference in Physics, November 2001, Delphi, Greece. To be published in Quantum Computers and Computing, 2002 and in the Proceedings of XXII Solvay Conference in Physics. New York: World Scientific, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205182
abstract: When a single photon is split by a beam splitter, its two `halves' can entangle two distant atoms into an EPR pair. We discuss a time-reversed analogue of this experiment where two distant sources cooperate so as to emit a single photon. The two `half photons,' having interacted with two atoms, can entangle these atoms into an EPR pair once they are detected as a single photon. Entanglement occurs by creating indistinguishabilility between the two mutually exclusive histories of the photon. This indistinguishabilility can be created either at the end of the two histories (by `erasing' the single photon's path) or at their beginning (by `erasing' the two atoms' positions).

id: quant-ph/0205183
title: Two qubits of a W state violate Bell's inequality beyond Cirel'son's bound
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002) 042114; 67 (2003) 029901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205183
abstract: It is shown that the correlations between two qubits selected from a trio prepared in a W state violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality more than the correlations between two qubits in any quantum state. Such a violation beyond Cirel'son's bound is smaller than the one achieved by two qubits selected from a trio in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 060403 (2002)]. However, it has the advantage that all local observers can know from their own measurements whether their qubits belongs or not to the selected pair.

id: quant-ph/0205184
title: Focusing of atoms with strongly confined light potentials
authors: Lars Egil Helseth
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures, Submitted to Optics Communications
journal: Opt. Commun., Vol. 212, 343 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205184
abstract: Focusing of atoms with light potentials is studied. In particular, we consider strongly confined, cylindrical symmetric potential, and demonstrate their applications in both red and blue-detuned focusing of atoms. We also study the influence of aberrations, and find that a resolution of 1 nm should in principle be possible.

id: quant-ph/0205185
title: Bell Inequalities in Four Dimensional Phase Space and the Three Marginal Theorem
authors: G. Auberson, ; G. Mahoux, ; S.M. Roy, Virendra Singh
comments: 21 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205185
abstract: We address the classical and quantum marginal problems, namely the question of simultaneous realizability through a common probability density in phase space of a given set of compatible probability distributions. We consider only distributions authorized by quantum mechanics, i.e. those corresponding to complete commuting sets of observables. For four-dimensional phase space with position variables qi and momentum variables pj, we establish the two following points: i) given four compatible probabilities for (q1,q2), (q1,p2), (p1,q2) and (p1,p2), there does not always exist a positive phase space density rho({qi},{pj}) reproducing them as marginals; this settles a long standing conjecture; it is achieved by first deriving Bell-like inequalities in phase space which have their own theoretical and experimental interest. ii) given instead at most three compatible probabilities, there always exist an associated phase space density rho({qi},{pj}); the solution is not unique and its general form is worked out. These two points constitute our ``three marginal theorem''.

id: quant-ph/0205186
title: Energy spectra of two electrons in a circular quantum dot
authors: Anjana Sinha, Y.P. Varshni
comments: 10 pages, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205186
abstract: The electron interaction energy of two interacting electrons in a circular quantum dot (with hard wall confinement) is investigated in the framework of the semi-classical Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) approximation. The two electrons are assumed to be in an infinitely deep well of radius $r_0$, in a simple configuration with one electron fixed at the origin. The corresponding Schrodinger equation, with hard wall boundary conditions, is also solved exactly by numerical integration. It is observed that the agreement between the two energy values is quite good, suggesting that the WKB approximation works well for such a confined quantum system as well. This may provide motivation to extend this to more realistic confined potentials.

id: quant-ph/0205187
title: Relativistic corrections to the Ekert test for eavesdropping
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: revtex, 6 eps figures; published in Proceedings of SPIE 3076 (1997) 141-145, one plot and one typo corrected
journal: Proceedings of SPIE 3076 (1997) 141-145
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205187
abstract: A degree of violation of the Bell inequality depends on momenta of massive particles with respect to a laboratory if spin plays a role af a "yes--no" observable. For ultra-relativistic particles the standard Ekert test has to take into accont this velocity dependent suppression of the degree of violation of the inequality. Otherwise Alice and Bob may "discover" a nonexisting eavesdropper.

id: quant-ph/0205188
title: Invitation to quantum dynamical semigroups
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: Lecture given at the 38 Winter School of Theoretical Physics, Ladek, Poland, Feb. 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205188
abstract: The theory of quantum dynamical semigroups within the mathematically rigorous framework of completely positive dynamical maps is reviewed. First, the axiomatic approach which deals with phenomenological constructions and general mathematical structures is discussed. Then basic derivation schemes of the constructive approach including singular coupling, weak coupling and low density limits are presented in their higly simplified versions. Two-level system coupled to a heat bath, damped harmonic oscillator, models of decoherence, quantum Brownian particle and Bloch-Boltzmann equations are used as illustrations of the general theory. Physical and mathematical limitations of the quantum open system theory, the validity of Markovian approximation and alternative approaches are discussed also.

id: quant-ph/0205189
title: Outline for a formal general theory of physical measurements
authors: Ioan Sturzu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205189
abstract: The paper gives the main lines of a general theory for physical measurements.

id: quant-ph/0205190
title: Spontaneous emission suppression on arbitrary atomic transitions
authors: Joerg Evers, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 163601 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205190
abstract: We propose a very simple scheme to slow down the usual exponential decay of upper state population in an atomic two level system considerably. The scheme makes use of an additional intense field with frequency lower than the total decay width of the atomic transition. This allows for additional decay channels with the exchange of one or more low-frequency photons during an atomic transition. The various channels may then interfere with each other. The intensity and the frequency of the low-frequency field are shown to act as two different control parameters modifying the duration and the amount of the population trapping. An extension of the scheme to include transitions to more than one lower state is straightforward.

id: quant-ph/0205191
title: Security of quantum cryptography using balanced homodyne detection
authors: Ryo Namiki, Takuya Hirano
comments: RevTeX4, 8pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022308 (2003) (7 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205191
abstract: In this paper we investigate the security of a quantum cryptographic scheme which utilizes balanced homodyne detection and weak coherent pulse (WCP). The performance of the system is mainly characterized by the intensity of the WCP and postselected threshold. Two of the simplest intercept/resend eavesdropping attacks are analyzed. The secure key gain for a given loss is also discussed in terms of the pulse intensity and threshold.

id: quant-ph/0205192
title: Dipole-Dipole Coupling in the Presence of Dispersing and Absorbing Bodies
authors: D.-G. Welsch, Ho Trung Dung, L. Kn?ll
comments: 8 pages, 4 figs, proceedings of 9th Central-European Workshop on Quantum Optics, Szeged, 2002, to appear in Fortschritte der Physik
journal: Fortschritte der Physik 51, 255 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205192
abstract: An effective Hamiltonian and equations of motion for treating both the resonant dipole-dipole interaction between two-level atoms and the resonant atom-field interaction are derived, which can suitably be used for studying the influence of arbitrary dispersing and absorbing material surroundings on these interactions. It is shown that the dipole-dipole interaction and the atom-field interaction, respectively, are closely related to the real part and the imaginary part of the (classical) Green tensor. The theory is applied to the study of the transient behavior of two atoms that initially share a single excitation, with special emphasis on the role of the two competing processes of virtual and real photon exchange in the energy transfer between the atoms. To illustrate the powerfulness of the theory, specific results for the case of the atoms being near a dispersing and absorbing microsphere are presented. In particular, the regimes of weak and strong atom-field coupling are addressed.

id: quant-ph/0205193
title: Experimental Quantum Computation with Nuclear Spins in Liquid Solution
authors: Lieven M.K. Vandersypen
comments: PhD Thesis, Stanford University, July 2001, 238 pages (hardcopies available upon request)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205193
abstract: We have taken significant steps towards the realization of a practical quantum computer: using nuclear spins and magnetic resonance techniques at room temperature, we provided proof of principle of quantum computing in a series of experiments which culminated in the implementation of the simplest instance of Shor's quantum algorithm for prime factorization (15=3x5), using a seven-spin molecule. This algorithm achieves an exponential advantage over the best known classical factoring algorithms and its implementation represents a milestone in the experimental exploration of quantum computation. These remarkable successes have been made possible by the synthesis of suitable molecules and the development of many novel techniques for initialization, coherent control and readout of the state of multiple coupled nuclear spins. Furthermore, we devised and implemented a model to simulate both unitary and decoherence processes in these systems, in order to study and quantify the impact of various technological as well as fundamental sources of errors. In summary, this work has given us a much needed practical appreciation of what it takes to build a quantum computer. While liquid NMR quantum computing has well-understood scaling limitations, many of the techniques that originated from this research may find use in other, perhaps more scalable quantum computer implementations.

id: quant-ph/0205194
title: Eliminating nonlinear phase mismatch in resonantly enhanced 4-wave mixing
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Evgeny Korsunsky, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205194
abstract: Resonantly enhanced four wave mixing in double-Lambda systems is limited by ac-Stark induced nonlinear phase shifts. With counter-propagating pump fields the intensity-phase coupling has minimal impact on the dynamics, but it is of critical importance for co-propagation. The nonlinear phase terms lead to an increase of the conversion length linearly proportional to the inverse seed intensity, while without nonlinear phase-mismatch the scaling is only logarithmic. We here show that the ac-Stark contributions can be eliminated while retaining the four-wave mixing contribution by choosing a suitable five level system with appropriate detunings.

id: quant-ph/0205195
title: Comment on "How the No-Cloning Theorem Got its Name"
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 3 pages, 2 col., LaTeX 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205195
abstract: A review by A. Peres [quant-ph/0205076] appears recently. It is difficult to add something to such kind of fundamental themes, but here is briefly presented some ideas about challenges of the no-cloning theorem and imaginary modifications of quantum mechanics, that could make precise cloning possible.

id: quant-ph/0205196
title: High efficiency photon counting using stopped light
authors: A. Imamoglu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205196
abstract: Single-photon detection and photon counting play a central role in a large number of quantum communication and computation protocols. While the efficiency of state-of-the-art photo-detectors is well below the desired limits, quantum state measurements in trapped ions can be carried out with efficiencies approaching 100%. Here, we propose a method that can in principle achieve ideal photon counting, by combining the techniques of photonic quantum memory and ion-trap fluorescence detection: after mapping the quantum state of a propagating light pulse onto metastable collective excitations of a trapped cold atomic gas, it is possible to monitor the resonance fluorescence induced by an additional laser field that only couples to the metastable excited state. Even with a photon collection/detection efficiency as low as 10%, it is possible to achieve photon counting with efficiency approaching 100%.

id: astro-ph/0205379
title: An alternative theoretical approach to describe planetary systems through a Schrodinger-type diffusion equation
authors: M. de Oliveira Neto, L. A. Maia, S. Carneiro
comments: 6 pages. Version accepted for publication in Chaos, Solitons & Fractals
journal: Chaos Solitons Fractals 21:21-28,2004
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0205379
abstract: In the present work we show that planetary mean distances can be calculated with the help of a Schrodinger-type diffusion equation. The obtained results are shown to agree with the observed orbits of all the planets and of the asteroid belt in the solar system, with only three empty states. Furthermore, the equation solutions predict a fundamental orbit at 0.05 AU from solar-type stars, a result confirmed by recent discoveries. In contrast to other similar approaches previously presented in the literature, we take into account the flatness of the solar system, by considering the flat solutions of the Schrodinger-type equation. The model has just one input parameter, given by the mean distance of Mercury.

id: cond-mat/0205169
title: Mott insulators in strong electric fields
authors: Subir Sachdev, K. Sengupta, S.M. Girvin
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures; (v2) minor additions and new references
journal: Physical Review B 66, 075128 (2002).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205169
abstract: Recent experiments on ultracold atomic gases in an optical lattice potential have produced a Mott insulating state of Rb atoms. This state is stable to a small applied potential gradient (an `electric' field), but a resonant response was observed when the potential energy drop per lattice spacing (E), was close to the repulsive interaction energy (U) between two atoms in the same lattice potential well. We identify all states which are resonantly coupled to the Mott insulator for E close to U via an infinitesimal tunneling amplitude between neighboring potential wells. The strong correlation between these states is described by an effective Hamiltonian for the resonant subspace. This Hamiltonian exhibits quantum phase transitions associated with an Ising density wave order, and with the appearance of superfluidity in the directions transverse to the electric field. We suggest that the observed resonant response is related to these transitions, and propose experiments to directly detect the order parameters. The generalizations to electric fields applied in different directions, and to a variety of lattices, should allow study of numerous other correlated quantum phases.

id: cond-mat/0205272
title: Quantum Disentanglement in Long-range Orders and Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 10 pages, revtex4. Journal version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 309, 254-261 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205272
abstract: We investigate the nature of quantum entanglement in long-range orders and spontaneous symmetry breaking. It is shown that diminishing of entanglement between the condensate mode and the rest of the system underlies off-diagonal long-range order, which is the hallmark of superconductivity and Bose-Einstein condensation. It is also revealed that disentanglement underlies various cases of long-range order and spontaneous symmetry breaking. In the course of the discussion, we also present some ideas on characterizing entanglement in many-body systems. Especially, it is shown how the connected correlation functions can be used in characterizing entanglements in a pure state.

id: cond-mat/0205274
title: Of Decoherent Electrons and Disordered Conductors
authors: P. Mohanty
comments: 34 pages, 19 figures; Invited lecture at the NATO Advanced Study Institute in Geilo, Norway (2001)
journal: Published in "Complexity from Microscopic to Macroscopic Scales: Coherence and Large deviations", Edited by A.T. Skjeltorp and T. Vicsek (Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2001)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205274
abstract: This lecture note reviews a variety of transport and thermodynamic measurements of electron decoherence time in low-dimensional conductors at low temperature. The mechanism of dephasing by electron interaction mediated by an arbitrarily small number of magnetic impurities is neither applicable to our linear-response measurements of weak localization, nor is it observed in the recent high-field measurements of the decoherence time in nominally pure quasi-one dimensional gold wires. The source of decoherence, after extensive experiments, still appears to be intrinsic.

id: cond-mat/0205280
title: Theory of Quantum Annealing of an Ising Spin Glass
authors: Giuseppe E. Santoro, Roman Martonak, Erio Tosatti, Roberto Car
comments: RevTex, 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: SCIENCE, vol 295, pp. 2427-2430 (29 March 2002) (with minor differences)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205280
abstract: Probing the lowest energy configuration of a complex system by quantum annealing was recently found to be more effective than its classical, thermal counterpart. Comparing classical and quantum Monte Carlo annealing protocols on the random two-dimensional Ising model we confirm the superiority of quantum annealing relative to classical annealing. We also propose a theory of quantum annealing, based on a cascade of Landau-Zener tunneling events. For both classical and quantum annealing, the residual energy after annealing is inversely proportional to a power of the logarithm of the annealing time, but the quantum case has a larger power which makes it faster

id: cond-mat/0205343
title: Manipulating the Quantum State of an Electrical Circuit
authors: D. Vion, A. Aassime, A. Cottet, P. Joyez, H. Pothier, C. Urbina, D. Esteve, M.H. Devoret
comments: 4 figures included
journal: Science 296, 886-889 (2002)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205343
abstract: We have designed and operated a superconducting tunnel junction circuit that behaves as a two-level atom: the ``quantronium''. An arbitrary evolution of its quantum state can be programmed with a series of microwave pulses, and a projective measurement of the state can be performed by a pulsed readout sub-circuit. The measured quality factor of quantum coherence Qphi=25000 is sufficiently high that a solid-state quantum processor based on this type of circuit can be envisioned.

id: cond-mat/0205443
title: The geometric structure of the Landau bands
authors: J. Bruening, S. Yu. Dobrokhotov, V. A. Geyler, K. V. Pankrashkin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figure, RevTeX 4
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205443
abstract: We have proposed a semiclassical explanation of the geometric structure of the spectrum for the two-dimensional Landau Hamiltonian with a two-periodic electric field without any additional assumptions on the potential. Applying an iterative averaging procedure we approximately, with any degree of accuracy, separate variables and describe a given Landau band as the spectrum of a Harper-like operator. The quantized Reeb graph for such an operator is used to obtain the following structure of the Landau band: localized states on the band wings and extended states near the middle of the band. Our approach also shows that different Landau bands have different geometric structure.

id: cond-mat/0205508
title: Quantum Smoluchowski equation: Escape from a metastable state
authors: Dhruba Banerjee, Bidhan Chandra Bag, Suman Kumar Banik, Deb Shankar Ray
comments: 10 pages, To appear in the Proceedings of Statphys - Kolkata IV
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205508
abstract: We develop a quantum Smoluchowski equation in terms of a true probability distribution function to describe quantum Brownian motion in configuration space in large friction limit at arbitrary temperature and derive the rate of barrier crossing and tunneling within an unified scheme. The present treatment is independent of path integral formalism and is based on canonical quantization procedure.

id: cond-mat/0205514
title: Design of Adiabatic Logic for a Quantum CNOT Gate
authors: V. Corato, P. Silvestrini, L. Stodolsky, J. Wosiek
comments: Simplified and clarified version, new material on adiabatic condition. Four pages, three figures
journal: Phys. Let. A309 206 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205514
abstract: We examine the realization of a quantum CNOT gate by adiabatic operations.The principles of such systems and their analysis are briefly discussed and a model consisting of two weakly coupled double- potential well qubits is studied numerically. Regions of the parameter space with suitable well-defined sets of wavefunctions are found, in which then an adiabatic sweep of an external bias produces the switching behavior of CNOT. Results are presented on the adiabatic condition and the identification with the parameters of a flux-coupled two-SQUID system is given.For typical parameters adiabatic times in the nanosecond regime are obtained.

id: cond-mat/0205535
title: Mean-Field Theory of Feshbach-Resonant Interactions in 85Rb Condensates
authors: Matt Mackie, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Juha Javanainen
comments: v2: numbers changed, not conclusions; 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 180403 (2002).
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205535
abstract: Recent Feshbach-resonance experiments with 85Rb Bose-Einstein condensates have led to a host of unexplained results: dramatic losses of condensate atoms for an across-resonance sweep of the magnetic field, a collapsing condensate with a burst of atoms emanating from the remnant condensate, increased losses for decreasing interaction times-- until short times are reached, and seemingly coherent oscillations between remnant and burst atoms. Using a simple yet realistic mean-field model, we find that rogue dissociation, molecular dissociation to noncondensate atom pairs, is strongly implicated as the physical mechanism responsible for these observations.

id: cond-mat/0205582
title: An analysis of reading out the state of a charge quantum bit
authors: Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: replaced with version to be published in March 2003
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 3, No. 2 (2003) 121-138
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205582
abstract: We provide a unified picture for the master equation approach and the quantum trajectory approach to a measurement problem of a two-state quantum system (a qubit), an electron coherently tunneling between two coupled quantum dots (CQD's) measured by a low transparency point contact (PC) detector. We show that the master equation of ``partially'' reduced density matrix can be derived from the quantum trajectory equation (stochastic master equation) by simply taking a ``partial'' average over the all possible outcomes of the measurement. If a full ensemble average is taken, the traditional (unconditional) master equation of reduced density matrix is then obtained. This unified picture, in terms of averaging over (tracing out) different amount of detection records (detector states), for these seemingly different approaches reported in the literature is particularly easy to understand using our formalism. To further demonstrate this connection, we analyze an important ensemble quantity for an initial qubit state readout experiment, $P(N,t)$, the probability distribution of finding $N$ electrons that have tunneled through the PC barrier in time $t$. The simulation results of $P(N,t)$ using 10000 quantum trajectories and corresponding measurement records are, as expected, in very good agreement with those obtained from the Fourier analysis of the ``partially'' reduced density matrix. However, the quantum trajectory approach provides more information and more physical insights into the ensemble and time averaged quantity $P(N,t)$. Each quantum trajectory resembles a single history of the qubit state in a single run of the continuous measurement experiment. We finally discuss, in this approach, the possibility of reading out the state of the qubit system in a single-shot experiment.

id: cond-mat/0205666
title: Hidden gauge structure and derivation of microcanonical ensemble theory of bosons from quantum principles
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Tsunehiro Kobayashi
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0205666
abstract: Microcanonical ensemble theory of bosons is derived from quantum mechanics by making use of a hidden gauge structure. The relative phase interaction associated with this gauge structure, described by the Pegg-Barnett formalism, is shown to lead to perfect decoherence in the thermodynamics limit and the principle of equal a priori probability, simultaneously.

id: gr-qc/0205013
title: The logic of causally closed spacetime subsets
authors: H. Casini
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 19 (2002) 6389-6404
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0205013
abstract: The causal structure of space-time offers a natural notion of an opposite or orthogonal in the logical sense, where the opposite of a set is formed by all points non time-like related with it. We show that for a general space-time the algebra of subsets that arises from this negation operation is a complete orthomodular lattice, and thus has several of the properties characterizing the algebra physical propositions in quantum mechanics. We think this fact could be used to investigate causal structure in an algebraic context. As a first step in this direction we show that the causal lattice is in addition atomic, find its atoms, and give necesary and sufficient conditions for ireducibility.

id: gr-qc/0205049
title: Probability Interpretation for Klein-Gordon Fields and the Hilbert Space Problem in Quantum Cosmology
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages, references added, slightly revised version
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0205049
abstract: We give an explicit construction of a positive-definite invariant inner-product for the Klein-Gordon fields, thus solving the old problem of the probability interpretation of Klein-Gordon fields without having to restrict to the subspaces of the positive-frequency solutions. Our method has a much wider domain of application and may be used to obtain the most general invariant inner-product on the solution space of a broad class of Klein-Gordon type evolution equations. We explore its consequences for the solutions of the Wheeler-DeWitt equation associated with the FRW-massive-real-scalar-field models.

id: gr-qc/0205056
title: Quantum mechanics without spacetime II : noncommutative geometry and the free point particle
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 8 pages
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 35 (2003) 869-876
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0205056
abstract: In a recent paper we have suggested that a formulation of quantum mechanics should exist, which does not require the concept of time, and that the appropriate mathematical language for such a formulation is noncommutative differential geometry. In the present paper we discuss this formulation for the free point particle, by introducing a commutation relation for a set of noncommuting coordinates. The sought for background independent quantum mechanics is derived from this commutation relation for the coordinates. We propose that the basic equations are invariant under automorphisms which map one set of coordinates to another- this is a natural generalization of diffeomorphism invariance when one makes a transition to noncommutative geometry. The background independent description becomes equivalent to standard quantum mechanics if a spacetime manifold exists, because of the proposed automorphism invariance. The suggested basic equations also give a quantum gravitational description of the free particle.

id: gr-qc/0205071
title: Time without time: a stochastic clock model
authors: H.-Th. Elze, O. Schipper
comments: 18 pages; LaTeX. 4 (.ps) plus 2 (.gif) figure files
journal: Phys.Rev. D66 (2002) 044020
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0205071
abstract: We study a classical reparametrization-invariant system, in which ``time'' is not a priori defined. It consists of a nonrelativistic particle moving in five dimensions, two of which are compactified to form a torus. There, assuming a suitable potential, the internal motion is ergodic or more strongly irregular. We consider quasi-local observables which measure the system's ``change'' in a coarse-grained way. Based on this, we construct a statistical timelike parameter, particularly with the help of maximum entropy method and Fisher-Rao information metric. The emergent reparametrization-invariant ``time'' does not run smoothly but is simply related to the proper time on the average. For sufficiently low energy, the external motion is then described by a unitary quantum mechanical evolution in accordance with the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: hep-ph/0205091
title: Large photon productions in a gravitational collapsing
authors: She-Sheng Xue
comments: 38 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0205091
abstract: We study a possible gravitational vacuum-effect, in which vacuum-energy variation is due to variation of gravitational field, vacuum state gains gravitational energy and releases it by spontaneous photon emissions. Based on the path-integral representation, we present a general formulation of vacuum transition matrix and energy-momentum tensor of a quantum scalar field theory in curved spacetime. Using analytical continuation of dimensionality of the phase space, we calculate the difference of vacuum-energy densities in the presence and absence of gravitational field. Using the dynamical equation of gravitational collapse, we compute the rate of vacuum state gaining gravitational energy. Computing the transition amplitude from initial vacuum state to final vacuum state in gravitational collapsing process, we show the rate and spectrum of spontaneous photon emissions for releasing gravitational energy. The possible connection of our study to the genuine origin of gamma ray bursts is discussed. We compare our idea with the Schwinger idea for Sonoluminiescence and contrast our scenario with the Hawking effect.

id: hep-th/0205024
title: Phases in noncommutative quantum mechanics on (pseudo)sphere
authors: Stefano Bellucci, Armen Nersessian
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. B542 (2002) 295-300
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205024
abstract: We compare the non-commutative quantum mechanics (NCQM) on sphere and the discrete part of the spectrum of NCQM on pseudosphere (Lobachevsky plane, or $AdS_2$) in the presence of a constant magnetic field $B$ with planar NCQM. We show, that (pseudo)spherical NCQM has a ``critical point'', where the system becomes effectively one-dimensional, and two different ``phases'', which the phases of the planar system originate from, specified by the sign of the parameter $\kappa=1-B\theta$. The ``critical point'' of (pseudo)spherical NCQM corresponds to the $\kappa\to\infty $ point of conventional planar NCQM, and to the ``critical point'' $\kappa=0$ of the so-called ``exotic'' planar NCQM, with a symplectic coupling of the (commutative) magnetic field.

id: hep-th/0205053
title: Magnetic translation groups in an n-dimensional torus
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX2e, title changed, re-organized, to be published in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 5926-5948
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205053
abstract: A charged particle in a uniform magnetic field in a two-dimensional torus has a discrete noncommutative translation symmetry instead of a continuous commutative translation symmetry. We study topology and symmetry of a particle in a magnetic field in a torus of arbitrary dimensions. The magnetic translation group (MTG) is defined as a group of translations that leave the gauge field invariant. We show that the MTG on an n-dimensional torus is isomorphic to a central extension of a cyclic group Z_{nu_1} x ... x Z_{nu_{2l}} x T^m by U(1) with 2l+m=n. We construct and classify irreducible unitary representations of the MTG on a three-torus and apply the representation theory to three examples. We shortly describe a representation theory for a general n-torus. The MTG on an n-torus can be regarded as a generalization of the so-called noncommutative torus.

id: hep-th/0205105
title: Reality, measurement and locality in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Daniele Tommasini
comments: 15 pages. Published version
journal: JHEP 0207 (2002) 039
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205105
abstract: It is currently believed that the local causality of Quantum Field Theory (QFT) is destroyed by the measurement process. This belief is also based on the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox and on the so-called Bell's theorem, that are thought to prove the existence of a mysterious, instantaneous action between distant measurements. However, I have shown recently that the EPR argument is removed, in an interpretation-independent way, by taking into account the fact that the Standard Model of Particle Physics prevents the production of entangled states with a definite number of particles. This result is used here to argue in favor of a statistical interpretation of QFT and to show that it allows for a full reconciliation with locality and causality. Within such an interpretation, as Ballentine and Jarret pointed out long ago, Bell's theorem does not demonstrate any nonlocality.

id: hep-th/0205124
title: Testing Abelian dyon - fermion Bound System
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 13 pages. Phys. Lett. B (in press)
journal: Phys.Lett. B532 (2002) 215-221
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205124
abstract: Characteristics of Abelian dyon - fermion bound system, parity - violating effects, a new series of energy spectra, effects related to the non - vanishing electric dipole moment, feature of spin orientation etc, are analyzed and compared with hydrogen - like atom. These analyses explore possibility of a new approach of searching for dyons under bound condition.

id: hep-th/0205125
title: q-Deformed Dynamics and Virial Theorem
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 11 pages. Phys. Lett. B (in press)
journal: Phys.Lett. B539 (2002) 162-167
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205125
abstract: In the framework of the q-deformed Heisenberg algebra the investigation of $q$-deformation of Virial theorem explores that q-deformed quantum mechanics possesses better dynamical property. It is clarified that in the case of the zero potential the theoretical framework for the q-deformed Virial theorem is self-consistent. In the selfadjoint states the q-deformed uncertainty relation essentially deviates from the Heisenberg one.

id: hep-th/0205168
title: Wormhole Spaces, Connes' "Points, Speaking to Each Other", and the Translocal Structure of Quantum Theory
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 35 pages, Latex, 4 figures, representation crisper and more focussed on wormhole structure, more rigorous results about connection to scale free small world networks, some new citations
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205168
abstract: We amalgamate three seemingly quite different fields of concepts and phenomena and argue that they actually represent closely related aspects of a more primordial space-time structure called by us wormhole spaces. Connes' framework of non-commutative topological spaces and ``points, speaking to each other'', a translocal web of (cor)relations, being hidden in the depth-structure of our macroscopic space-time and made visible by the application of a new geometric renormalisation process, and the apparent but difficult to understand translocal features of quantum theory. We argue that the conception of our space-time continuum as being basically an aggregate of structureless points is almost surely to poor and has to be extended and that the conceptual structure of quantum theory, in particular its translocal features like e.g. entanglement and complex superposition, are exactly a mesoscopic consequence of this microscopic wormhole structure. We emphasize the close connections with the ``small world phenomenon'' and rigorously show that the micro state of our space-time, viewed as a dynamical system, has to be critical in a scale free way as recently observed in other fields of network science. We then briefly indicate the mechanisms by which this non-local structure manages to appear in a seemingly local disguise on the surface level, thus invoking a certain Machian spirit.

id: hep-th/0205191
title: Anomalous Commutator Algebra for Conformal Quantum Mechanics
authors: Gino N. J. Ananos, Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos Gorrichategui, Ernesto Hernadez, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 23 pages. A few typos corrected in the final version (which agrees with the published Phys. Rev. D article)
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 045018
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0205191
abstract: The structure of the commutator algebra for conformal quantum mechanics is considered. Specifically, it is shown that the emergence of a dimensional scale by renormalization implies the existence of an anomaly or quantum-mechanical symmetry breaking, which is explicitly displayed at the level of the generators of the SO(2,1) conformal group. Correspondingly, the associated breakdown of the conservation of the dilation and special conformal charges is derived.

id: math-ph/0205002
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real and complex eigenvalues in a Lie-algebraic framework
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages, no figure, 1 reference added
journal: Phys.Lett.A300:18-26,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0205002
abstract: We show that complex Lie algebras (in particular sl(2,C)) provide us with an elegant method for studying the transition from real to complex eigenvalues of a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians: complexified Scarf II, generalized P\"oschl-Teller, and Morse. The characterizations of these Hamiltonians under the so-called pseudo-Hermiticity are also discussed.

id: math-ph/0205005
title: Jordan-Schwinger realizations of three-dimensional polynomial algebras
authors: V. Sunil Kumar, B. A. Bambah, R. Jagannathan
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A17:1559-1566,2002
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0205005
abstract: A three-dimensional polynomial algebra of order $m$ is defined by the commutation relations $[P_0, P_\pm]$ $=$ $\pm P_\pm$, $[P_+, P_-]$ $=$ $\phi^{(m)}(P_0)$ where $\phi^{(m)}(P_0)$ is an $m$-th order polynomial in $P_0$ with the coefficients being constants or central elements of the algebra. It is shown that two given mutually commuting polynomial algebras of orders $l$ and $m$ can be combined to give two distinct $(l+m+1)$-th order polynomial algebras. This procedure follows from a generalization of the well known Jordan-Schwinger method of construction of $su(2)$ and $su(1,1)$ algebras from two mutually commuting boson algebras.

id: math-ph/0205031
title: The two-dimensional hydrogen atom revisited
authors: D.G.W. Parfitt, M.E. Portnoi
comments: 10 pages, no figures, RevTex4
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 43, 4681 (2002)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0205031
abstract: The bound state energy eigenvalues for the two-dimensional Kepler problem are found to be degenerate. This "accidental" degeneracy is due to the existence of a two-dimensional analogue of the quantum-mechanical Runge-Lenz vector. Reformulating the problem in momentum space leads to an integral form of the Schroedinger equation. This equation is solved by projecting the two-dimensional momentum space onto the surface of a three-dimensional sphere. The eigenfunctions are then expanded in terms of spherical harmonics, and this leads to an integral relation in terms of special functions which has not previously been tabulated. The dynamical symmetry of the problem is also considered, and it is shown that the two components of the Runge-Lenz vector in real space correspond to the generators of infinitesimal rotations about the respective coordinate axes in momentum space.

id: math/0205187
title: On the digraph of a unitary matrix
authors: Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages
journal: SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, Volume 25, Number 1, pp. 295-300, July 2003
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0205187
abstract: Given a matrix M of size n, a digraph D on n vertices is said to be the digraph of M, when M_{ij} is different from 0 if and only if (v_{i},v_{j}) is an arc of D. We give a necessary condition, called strong quadrangularity, for a digraph to be the digraph of a unitary matrix. With the use of such a condition, we show that a line digraph, LD, is the digraph of a unitary matrix if and only if D is Eulerian. It follows that, if D is strongly connected and LD is the digraph of a unitary matrix then LD is Hamiltonian. We conclude with some elementary observations. Among the motivations of this paper are coined quantum random walks, and, more generally, discrete quantum evolution on digraphs.

id: math/0205244
title: Holonomy control operators in classical and quantum completely integrable Hamiltonian systems
authors: G.Giachetta, L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0205244
abstract: Completely integrable Hamiltonian systems look promising for controllability since their first integrals are stable under an internal evolution, and one may hope to find a perturbation of a Hamiltonian which drives the first integrals at will. Action-angle coordinates are most convenient for this purpose. Written with respect to these coordinates, a Hamiltonian and first integrals depend only on the action ones. We introduce a suitable perturbation of a Hamiltonian by a term containing time-dependent parameters so that an evolution of action variables is nothing else than a displacement along a curve in a parameter space. Therefore, one can define this evolution in full by an appropriate choice of parameter functions. Similar holonomy controllability of finite level quantum systems is of special interes in connection with quantum computation. We provide geometric quantization of a time-dependent completely integrable Hamiltonian system in action-angle variables. Its Hamiltonian and first integrals have time-independent countable spectra. The holonomy control operator in this countable level quantum system is constructed.

id: nlin/0205061
title: Darboux Covariant Equations of von Neumann Type and their Generalizations
authors: Jan L. Cieslinski, Marek Czachor, Nikolai V. Ustinov
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX, revised version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 44, 1763 (2003)
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0205061
abstract: Lax pairs with operator valued coefficients, which are explicitly connected by means of an additional condition, are considered. This condition is proved to be covariant with respect to the Darboux transformation of a general form. Nonlinear equations arising from the compatibility condition of the Lax pairs in the matrix case include, in particular, Nahm equations, Volterra, Bogoyavlenskii and Toda lattices. The examples of another one-, two- and multi-field lattice equations are also presented.

id: nlin/0205065
title: Comment on "Ehrenfest times for classically chaotic systems"
authors: Steven Tomsovic, Eric J. Heller
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0205065
abstract: In a recent Phys. Rev. E Rapid Communication, the authors, Silvestrov and Beenakker, introduce a way to lengthen the Ehrenfest time, $\tau$, for fully chaotic systems. We disagree with several statements made in their paper, and address the following points essential to their conclusions: 1) it is not true that all semiclassical approximations for chaotic systems fail at a so-called `logtime', $\tau \propto - \ln (\hbar)$, differing only by a numerical coefficient; and 2) the limitation of the semiclassical approximation as expressed in the authors' Eq. (8) is not limited by their argument leading to Eq. (12).

id: physics/0205083
title: Maxwell Optics: I. An exact matrix representation of the Maxwell equations in a medium
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan
comments: LaTeX-12pt 10 pages, Part-I of a series this http URL and this http URL
journal: Phys.Scripta 71:440-442,2005
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0205083
abstract: Matrix representations of the Maxwell equations are well-known. However, all these representations lack an exactness or/and are given in terms of a {\em pair} of matrix equations. We present a matrix representation of the Maxwell equation in presence of sources in a medium with varying permittivity and permeability. It is shown that such a representation necessarily requires $8 \times 8$ matrices and an explicit representation for them is presented.

id: physics/0205084
title: Maxwell Optics: II. An Exact Formalism
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan
comments: LaTeX-12pt 23 pages, Part-II of a series this http URL and this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0205084
abstract: We present a formalism for light optics starting with the Maxwell equations and casting them into an exact matrix form taking into account the spatial and temporal variations of the permittivity and permeability. This $8 \times 8$ matrix representation is used to construct the optical Hamiltonian. This has a close analogy with the algebraic structure of the Dirac equation, enabling the use of the rich machinery of the Dirac electron theory. We get interesting wavelength-dependent contributions which can not be obtained in any of the traditional approaches.

id: physics/0205085
title: Maxwell Optics: III. Applications
authors: Sameen Ahmed Khan
comments: LaTeX-12pt 13 pages, Part-III of a series this http URL and this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0205085
abstract: A new formalism of beam-optics and polarization has been recently presented, based on an exact matrix representation of the Maxwell equations. This is described in Part-I and Part-II. In this Part, we present the application of the above formalism to the specific example of the axially symmetric graded index fiber. This formalism leads to the wavelength-dependent modifications of the six aberrations present in the traditional prescriptions and further gives rise to the remaining three aberrations permitted by the axial symmetry. Besides, it also gives rise to a wavelength-dependent image rotation. The three extra aberrations and the image rotation are not found in any of the traditional approaches.

id: quant-ph/0205092
title: Brain as quantum-like computer
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: In particular, a review on quantum mental models: Whitehead (1929, 1933, 1939), Orlov (1982), Healey (1984), Albert and Loewer (1988, 1992), Lockwood (1989, 1996), Penrose (1989, 1994), Donald (1990, 1995, 1996), Jibu and Yasue (1992, 1994), Bohm and Hiley (1993), Stapp (1993), Hameroff (1994, 1998), Loewer (1996), Hiley and Pylkk\"anen (1997), Deutsch (1997), Barrett (1999), Khrennikov (1999, 2000), Hiley (2000), Vitiello (2001)
journal: BioSystems, 84, 225-241, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0205092
abstract: We present a contextualist statistical realistic model for quantum-like representations in physics, cognitive science and psychology. We apply this model to describe cognitive experiments to check quantum-like structures of mental processes. The crucial role is played by interference of probabilities for mental observables. Recently one of such experiments based on recognition of images was performed. This experiment confirmed our prediction on quantum-like behaviour of mind. In our approach ``quantumness of mind'' has no direct relation to the fact that the brain (as any physical body) is composed of quantum particles. We invented a new terminology ``quantum-like (QL) mind.'' Cognitive QL-behaviour is characterized by nonzero coefficient of interference $\lambda.$ This coefficient can be found on the basis of statistical data. There is predicted not only $\cos \theta$-interference of probabilities, but also hyperbolic $\cosh \theta$-interference. This interference was never observed for physical systems, but we could not exclude this possibility for cognitive systems. We propose a model of brain functioning as QL-computer (there is discussed difference between quantum and QL computers).

