id: quant-ph/0206001
title: The role of entanglement in dynamical evolution
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Revised version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 62, 615 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206001
abstract: Entanglement or entanglement generating interactions permit to achieve the maximum allowed speed in the dynamical evolution of a composite system, when the energy resources are distributed among subsystems. The cases of pre-existing entanglement and of entanglement-building interactions are separately addressed. The role of classical correlations is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0206002
title: Relationship between the wave function and space
authors: J. Besprosvany
comments: 16 pages, 10 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206002
abstract: We criticize the current standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, review its paradoxes with attention to non-locality, and conclude that a reconsideration of it must be made. We underline the incompatibility of the conceptions ascribed to space of field, and stage in modern theories, with differing roles for coordinates. We hence trace the non-locality difficulty to the identification of the basis space of the wave function and physical space. An interpretation of the wave function in which space loses its stage use at the local level, and its physical (field) meaning is assigned to the wave function, can solve this difficulty. An application of this proposal implies a field-equation extension based on a unified description of bosons and fermions able to provide new information on the standard model.

id: quant-ph/0206003
title: How Powerful is Adiabatic Quantum Computation?
authors: Wim van Dam, Michele Mosca, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e, requires fullpage, times, amssymb, and amsmath packages. This article appeared in the proceedings of FOCS'01; original submission date: April 27, 2001
journal: Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, pp. 279-287 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206003
abstract: We analyze the computational power and limitations of the recently proposed 'quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm'.

id: quant-ph/0206004
title: Aharanov Anandan Phase for the Quasi Exactly Solvable Bose Systems
authors: Anirban Pathak
comments: 6 pages LATEX, No figure
journal: Proc. of Nat. Conf. on Laser and Its Application (2001) 159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206004
abstract: An extended notion of quasi-exactly solvable potential model is used here to treat quasi exactly solvable (QES) Bose systems. We report an analytic expression for the Ahoronov Anandan non-adiabatic geometric phase for the QES Bose system in general. The generalized expression is then used to study some particular cases of physical interest and we observe that the geometric phase can be tuned.

id: quant-ph/0206005
title: SU(N) Coherent States
authors: Manu Mathur, H. S. Mani
comments: 25 pages, LaTex, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 43 (2002) 5351
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206005
abstract: We generalize Schwinger boson representation of SU(2) algebra to SU(N) and define coherent states of SU(N) using $2(2^{N-1}-1)$ bosonic harmonic oscillator creation and annihilation operators. We give an explicit construction of all (N-1) Casimirs of SU(N) in terms of these creation and annihilation operators. The SU(N) coherent states belonging to any irreducible representations of SU(N) are labelled by the eigenvalues of the Casimir operators and are characterized by (N-1) complex orthonormal vectors describing the SU(N) manifold. The coherent states provide a resolution of identity, satisfy the continuity property, and possess a variety of group theoretic properties.

id: quant-ph/0206006
title: Uncertainty In Quantum Computation
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206006
abstract: We examine the effect of previous history on starting a computation on a quantum computer. Specifically, we assume that the quantum register has some unknown state on it, and it is required that this state be cleared and replaced by a specific superposition state without any phase uncertainty, as needed by quantum algorithms. We show that, in general, this task is computationally impossible.

id: quant-ph/0206007
title: Conditional quantum logic using two atomic qubits
authors: I.E.Protsenko, G. Reymond, N. Schlosser, P. Grangier
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures in 11 files
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062306 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206007
abstract: In this paper we propose and analyze a feasible scheme where the detection of a single scattered photon from two trapped atoms or ions performs a conditional unitary operation on two qubits. As examples we consider the preparation of all four Bell states, the reverse operation that is a Bell measurement, and a CNOT gate. We study the effect of atomic motion and multiple scattering, by evaluating Bell inequalities violations, and by calculating the CNOT gate fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0206008
title: Separability of mixed quantum states: linear contractions approach
authors: Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: four pages, RevTeX4
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 13, 103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206008
abstract: Recently, a new and powerful separability criterion was introduced in [O. Rudolph, quant-ph/0202121] and [Chen {\it et al.}, quant-ph/0205017]. Composing the main idea behind the above criterion and the necessary and sufficient condition in terms of positive maps, we provide a characterization of separable states by means of linear contractions. The latter need not be positive maps. We extend the idea to multipartite systems, and find that, somewhat suprisingly, partial realigment (unlike partial transposition) can detect genuinely triparite entanglement. We also show that for multipartite system any permutation of indices of density matrix leads to separability criterion.

id: quant-ph/0206009
title: On a subject of diverse improvisations: The uncertainty relations on a circle
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 23 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206009
abstract: The disputed question of uncertainty relations (UR) on a circle is regarded as a particular element of a more general problem which refers to the quantum description of angular observables $L_z$ and $\phi$. The improvised $L_z-\phi$ UR are found to be affected by unsourmontable shortcomings. Also in contradiction with a largely accepted belief it is proved that the usual procedures of quantum mechanics are accurately applicable for the $L_z-\phi$ pair. The applicability regards both the known circular motions and the less known non-circular rotational motions. The presented facts contribute as arguments to the following indubitable conclusions: (i) the traditional interpretation of UR must be denied as an incorrect doctrine, (ii) for a natural physical consideration of the the $L_z-\phi$ pair the results from the usual quantum mechanics are sufficient while the improvised $L_z-\phi$ UR must be rejected as senseless formulas and (iii) the descriptions of quantum measurements have to be done in a framework which is distinct and additional in respect with the usual quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0206010
title: A possible new approach of quantum measurements
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206010
abstract: It is proposed a possible new approach of quantum measurements (QMS), disconnected of the traditional interpretation of uncertainty relations and independent of any appeal to the strange idea of collapse (reduction) of wave functions. The new approach regards QMS as a statistical samplings (but not as simple detection acts) and their description as a distinct task, independent of actual procedures of quantum mechanics. A QMS is described by means of transformations of probability density and probability current, from intrinsic into recorded readings. The quantum observables appear as random variables, described by usual operators and valuable through probabilistic numerical parameters (mean values, correlations and standard deviations). The values of the respective parameters are not the same in the two mentioned readings. Then the measurement uncertainties (errors) are described by means of the changes in the alluded values. The new QMS approach is illustrated through an one-dimensional example.

id: quant-ph/0206011
title: Classical and Quantum Oscillators of Sextic and Octic Anharmonicities
authors: Anirban Pathak, Swapan Mandal
comments: 13 pages, latex 2e, 1 figure Journal Reference: Phys. Lett. A (2002) in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206011
abstract: Classical oscillators of sextic and octic anharmonicities are solved analytically up to the linear power of \lambda (Anharmonic Constant) by using Taylor series method. These solutions exhibit the presence of secular terms which are summed up for all orders. The frequency shifts of the oscillators for small anharmonic constants are obtained. It is found that the calculated shifts agree nicely with the available results to-date. The solutions for classical anharmonic oscillators are used to obtain the solutions corresponding to quantum anharmonic oscillators by imposing fundamental commutation relations between position and momentum operators.

id: quant-ph/0206012
title: Coherent states, entanglement, and geometric invariant theory
authors: Alexander Klyachko
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206012
abstract: The main objective of the paper is to unveil an adequate mathematics hidden behind entanglement, that is Geometric Invariant Theory. More specifically relation between these two subjects can be described by the following theses. (i) Total variance of completely entangled state is maximal. (ii) This distinguishes the state as a minimal vector in its orbit under action of complexified dynamic group. (iii) An ultimate aim of Geometric Invariant Theory is a description of complex orbits and their minimal vectors. It suggests that noncompletely entangled states are just GIT semistable vectors.

id: quant-ph/0206013
title: The interplay of supersymmetry and PT symmetry in quantum mechanics: a case study for the Scarf II potential
authors: G. Levai, M. Znojil
comments: 14 pages, including 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 8793
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206013
abstract: Motivated by the duality of normalizable states and the presence of the quasi-parity quantum number q=+/-1 in PT symmetric (non-Hermitian) quantum mechanical potential models, the relation of PT symmetry and supersymmetry (SUSY) is studied. As an illustrative example the PT invariant version of the Scarf II potential is presented, and it is shown that the "bosonic" Hamiltonian has two different "fermionic" SUSY partner Hamiltonians (potentials) generated from the ground-state solutions with q=1 and q=-1. It is shown that the "fermionic" potentials cease to be PT invariant when the PT symmetry of the "bosonic" potential is spontaneously broken. A modified PT symmetry inspired SUSY construction is also discussed, in which the SUSY charge operators contain the antilinear operator T. It is shown that in this scheme the "fermionic" Hamitonians are just the complex conjugate of the original "fermionic" Hamiltonians, and thus possess the same energy eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0206014
title: Survival of the Fittest and Zero Sum Games
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 6 pages, formatted according to journal style. Special Issue on Game Theory and Evolutionary Processes. (v2) Published version. Some clarifications added. Topological interpretation pointed out
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters 2 (2002) L279-L284
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206014
abstract: Competition for available resources is natural amongst coexisting species, and the fittest contenders dominate over the rest in evolution. The dynamics of this selection is studied using a simple linear model. It has similarities to features of quantum computation, in particular conservation laws leading to destructive interference. Compared to an altruistic scenario, competition introduces instability and eliminates the weaker species in a finite time.

id: quant-ph/0206015
title: Ladder proof of nonlocality for two spin-half particles revisited
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages, 1 figure, journal version
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 9105; www.iop.org/Journals/JPhysA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206015
abstract: In this paper we extend the ladder proof of nonlocality without inequalities for two spin-half particles given by Boschi et al [PRL 79, 2755 (1997)] to the case in which the measurement settings of the apparatus measuring one of the particles are different from the measurement settings of the apparatus measuring the other particle. It is shown that, in any case, the proportion of particle pairs for which the contradiction with local realism goes through is maximized when the measurement settings are the same for each apparatus. Also we write down a Bell inequality for the experiment in question which is violated by quantum mechanics by an amount which is twice as much as the amount by which quantum mechanics violates the Bell inequality considered in the above paper by Boschi et al.

id: quant-ph/0206016
title: The Dirac Equation in Classical Statistical Mechanics
authors: G.N. Ord
comments: Condensed version of a talk given at the MRST conference, 05/02, Waterloo, Ont. 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206016
abstract: The Dirac equation, usually obtained by `quantizing' a classical stochastic model is here obtained directly within classical statistical mechanics. The special underlying space-time geometry of the random walk replaces the missing analytic continuation, making the model `self-quantizing'. This provides a new context for the Dirac equation, distinct from its usual context in relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0206017
title: Experimental demonstration of continuous variable polarization entanglement
authors: Warwick P. Bowen, Nicolas Treps, Roman Schnabel, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 89, 253601 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206017
abstract: We report the experimental transformation of quadrature entanglement between two optical beams into continuous variable polarization entanglement. We extend the inseparability criterion proposed by Duan, et al. [Duan00] to polarization states and use it to quantify the entanglement between the three Stokes operators of the beams. We propose an extension to this scheme utilizing two quadrature entangled pairs for which all three Stokes operators between a pair of beams are entangled.

id: quant-ph/0206018
title: Enhancement of thermal entanglement in two-qubit XY models
authors: Celia Anteneodo, Andre M.C.Souza
comments: 4 PS figures, to appear in Journal of Optics B
journal: J. Opt. B 5, 73 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206018
abstract: We analyze conditions leading to enhancement of thermal entanglement in two-qubit XY models. The effect of including cross-product terms, besides the standard XY exchange interactions, in the presence of an external magnetic field, is investigated. We show that entanglement can be yield at elevated temperatures by tuning the orientation of the external magnetic field. The details of the intrinsic exchange interactions determine the optimal orientation.

id: quant-ph/0206019
title: The Innsbruck quantum teleportation experimental scheme can be modified to the unconditional one
authors: Wang Xiang-bin
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. It is a very simple short note. One can read through it in 5 minutes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206019
abstract: We show that the Innsbruck quantum teleportation experiment(Bouwmeester D et al, Nature 390, 575(1997)) can be modified by using the polarized beam splitter. In this modified scheme, Bob does not have to do any meassurement and an unknown state from Victor can be verified to be teleported to Bob from Alice by the currently exisiting technology, i.e., by using the normal photon detectors which do not distinguish one photon and two photons.

id: quant-ph/0206020
title: Time scale of forerunners in quantum tunneling
authors: G. Garcia-Calderon, Jorge Villavicencio, F. Delgado, J. G. Muga
comments: Revtex4, 14 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206020
abstract: The forerunners preceding the main tunneling signal of the wave created by a source with a sharp onset or by a quantum shutter, have been generally associated with over-the-barrier (non-tunneling) components. We demonstrate that, while this association is true for distances which are larger than the penetration lenght, for smaller distances the forerunner is dominated by under-the-barrier components. We find that its characteristic arrival time is inversely proportional to the difference between the barrier energy and the incidence energy, a tunneling time scale different from both the phase time and the B\"uttiker-Landauer (BL) time.

id: quant-ph/0206021
title: Entanglement and Properties
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 10 pages, Latex, corrected typos
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 51, 379-387 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206021
abstract: Various topics concerning the entanglement of composite quantum systems are considered with particular emphasis concerning the strict relations of such a problem with the one of attributing objective properties to the constituents. In particular we will focus our attention to composite quantum systems composed of identical constituents, with the purpose of dealing with subtle issues, which have never been adequately discussed in the literature, originating from the true indistinguishability of the subsystems involved.

id: quant-ph/0206022
title: Covariant Effective Action for Quantum Particle with Coordinate-Dependent Mass
authors: H. Kleinert, A.Chervyakov
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Phys.Lett. A299 (2002) 319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206022
abstract: Using a covariant background field method we calculate the one-loop quantum effective action for a particle with coordinate-dependent mass moving slowly through a one-dimensional configuration space. The procedure can easily be extended to any desired loop order.

id: quant-ph/0206023
title: Tractability of Approximation for Weighted Korobov Spaces on Classical and Quantum Computers
authors: E. Novak, I. H. Sloan, H. Wozniakowski
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206023
abstract: The paper studies quantum complexity, tractability, and strong tractability for high dimensional multivariate approximation. We study a space of functions important in many applications. A function space is weighted if certain variables are more important than others; the weights show the relative importance of the variables. In an unweighted space all variables are equally important and multivariate approximation is intractable. We want to study when the complexity of multivariate approximation is independent of the number of variables and depends polynomially on 1/E. The main conclusions are: Multivariate approximation on a quantum computer can be solved roughly (1/E)^(1+r) times faster than on a classical computer using randomization. Here, r is a positive parameter that depends on the weights and may be large. This means that the speed-up of quantum over classical computers may be much larger than quadratic. Multivariate approximation on a quantum computer is exponentially faster than on a classical computer with a worst case assurance even if the sum of weights is infinite but a certain power of them is finite. We have designed a quantum algorithm with error at most E that uses about d+log(1/E) qubits. Hence, we have only linear dependence on the dimension d and logarithmic dependence on 1/E. Therefore, for some applications the number of qubits is quite modest.

id: quant-ph/0206024
title: Two-photon linewidth of light "stopping" via electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Claudia Mewes, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206024
abstract: We analyze the two-photon linewidth of the recently proposed adiabatic transfer technique for ``stopping'' of light using electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We shown that a successful and reliable transfer of excitation from light to atoms and back can be achieved if the spectrum of the input probe pulse lies within the initial transparency window of EIT, and if the two-photon detuning $\delta$ is less than the collective coupling strength (collective vacuum Rabi-frequency) $g\sqrt{N}$ divided by $\sqrt{\gamma T}$, with $\gamma$ being the radiative decay rate, $N$ the effective number of atoms in the sample, and $T$ the pulse duration. Hence in an optically thick medium light ``storage'' and retrieval is possible with high fidelity even for systems with rather large two-photon detuning or inhomogeneous broadening.

id: quant-ph/0206025
title: Universal Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation in the Presence of Spontaneous Emission and Collective Dephasing
authors: Kaveh L. Khodjasteh, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, no figures. This version to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 197904 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206025
abstract: A universal and fault tolerant scheme for quantum computation is proposed which utilizes a class of error correcting codes that is based on the detection of spontaneous emission (of, e.g., photons, phonons, and ripplons). The scheme is compatible with a number of promising solid-state and quantum-optical proposals for quantum computer implementations, such as quantum dots in cavities, electrons on helium, and trapped ions.

id: quant-ph/0206026
title: The Spirit and the Letter of Copenhagen: A Response to Andrei Khrennikov
authors: Arkady Plotnitsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206026
abstract: The present communication addresses (by way of a response to Andrei Khrennikov's recent argument), the epistemology of quantum mechanics and Bohr's interpretation of quantum mechanics as complementarity.

id: quant-ph/0206027
title: Understanding Quantum Superarrivals using the Bohmian model
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, A. S. Majumdar, Dipankar Home
comments: 5 pages, Latex, 4 .eps figures, typos corrected, comments added, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 304 (2002) 61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206027
abstract: We investigate the orgin of ``quantum superarrivals'' in the reflection and transmission probabilities of a Gaussian wave packet for a rectangular potential barrier while it is perturbed by either reducing or increasing its height. There exists a finite time interval during which the probability of reflection is {\it larger} (superarrivals) while the barrier is {\it lowered} compared to the unperturbed case. Similarly, during a certain interval of time, the probability of transmission while the barrier is {\it raised} {\it exceeds} that for free propagation. We compute {\it particle trajectories} using the Bohmian model of quantum mechanics in order to understand {\it how} this phenomenon of superarrivals occurs.

id: quant-ph/0206028
title: Quantum Plain and Carry Look-Ahead Adders
authors: Kai-Wen Cheng, Chien-Cheng Tseng
comments: 16 pages, 18 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206028
abstract: In this paper, two quantum networks for the addition operation are presented. One is the Modified Quantum Plain (MQP) adder, and the other is the Quantum Carry Look-Ahead (QCLA) adder. The MQP adder is obtained by modifying the Conventional Quantum Plain (CQP) adder. The QCLA adder is an extension of conventional digital Carry Look-Ahead adder. Compared with the CQP adder, two main advantages are as follows: First, the proposed MQP and QCLA adders have less number of elementary gates than the CQP adder. Secondly, the number of processing stages of the MQP and QCLA adder are less than ones of the CQP adder. As a result, the throughput time for computing the sum of two numbers on the quantum computer can be improved.

id: quant-ph/0206029
title: The classical limit for a class of quantum baker's maps
authors: Mark M. Tracy, A.J. Scott
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 35, 8341 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206029
abstract: We show that the class of quantum baker's maps defined by Schack and Caves have the proper classical limit provided the number of momentum bits approaches infinity. This is done by deriving a semi-classical approximation to the coherent-state propagator.

id: quant-ph/0206030
title: Nonclassical Total Probability Formula and Quantum Interference of Probabilities
authors: Alexander Bulinski, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206030
abstract: Interpretation of the nonclassical total probability formula arising in some quantum experiments is provided based on stochastic models described by means of a sequence of random vectors changing in the measurement procedures.

id: quant-ph/0206031
title: Better detection of Multipartite Bound Entanglement with Three-Setting Bell Inequalities
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, L.C. Kwek, Jingling Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: Revtex4, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206031
abstract: It was shown in Phys. Rev. Lett., 87, 230402 (2001) that N (N >= 4) qubits described by a certain one parameter family F of bound entangled states violate Mermin-Klyshko inequality for N >= 8. In this paper we prove that the states from the family F violate Bell inequalities derived in Phys. Rev. A, 56, R1682 (1997), in which each observer measures three non-commuting sets of orthogonal projectors, for N >=7. We also derive a simple one parameter family of entanglement witnesses that detect entanglement for all the states belonging to F. It is possible that these new entanglement witnesses could be generated by some Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0206032
title: PT symmetry breaking and explicit expressions for the pseudo-norm in the Scarf II potential
authors: G. Levai, F. Cannata, A. Ventura
comments: 16 pages; to appear in Phys. lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 300 (2002) 271.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206032
abstract: Closed expressions are derived for the pseudo-norm, norm and orthogonality relations for arbitrary bound states of the PT symmetric and the Hermitian Scarf II potential for the first time. The pseudo-norm is found to have indefinite sign in general. Some aspects of the spontaneous breakdown of PT symmetry are analysed.

id: quant-ph/0206033
title: Manipulating the shape of electronic non-dispersive wave-packets in the hydrogen atom: numerical tests in realistic experimental conditions
authors: Dominique Delande, Krzysztof Sacha, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures, talk given at the Photons, Atoms and All That (PAAT2002) conference (to commemorate 60th anniversary of Tomasz Dohnalik)
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B, 33, 2097 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206033
abstract: We show that combination of a linearly polarized resonant microwave field and a parallel static electric field may be used to create a non-dispersive electronic wavepacket in Rydberg atoms. The static electric field allows for manipulation of the shape of the elliptical trajectory the wavepacket is propagating on. Exact quantum numerical calculations for realistic experimental parameters show that the wavepacket evolving on a linear orbit can be very easily prepared in a laboratory either by a direct optical excitation or by preparing an atom in an extremal Stark state and then slowly switching on the microwave field. The latter scheme seems to be very resistant to experimental imperfections. Once the wavepacket on the linear orbit is excited, the static field may be used to manipulate the shape of the orbit.

id: quant-ph/0206034
title: Critique of an Experiment Regarding Quantum States in a Gravitational Field and Possible Geometrical Explanations
authors: D. Olevik, C. Turk, H. Wiklund, J. Hansson
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, Student project in applied quantum mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206034
abstract: We discuss an experiment conducted by Nesvizhevsky et al. As it is the first experiment claimed to have observed gravitational quantum states, it is imperative to investigate all alternative explanations of the result. In a student project course in applied quantum mechanics, we consider the possibility of quantummechanical effects arising from the geometry of the experimental setup, due to the "cavity" formed. We try to reproduce the experimental result using geometrical arguments only. Due to the influence of several unknown parameters our result is still inconclusive.

id: quant-ph/0206035
title: Kochen-Specker Theorem for Finite Precision Spin One Measurements
authors: Thomas Breuer
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 240402, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206035
abstract: Unsharp spin 1 observables arise from the fact that a residual uncertainty about the actual orientation of the measurement device remains. If the uncertainty is below a certain level, and if the distribution of measurement errors is covariant under rotations, a Kochen-Specker theorem for the unsharp spin observables follows: There are finite sets of directions such that not all the unsharp spin observables in these directions can consistently be assigned approximate truth-values in a non-contextual way.

id: quant-ph/0206036
title: Geometric phases for wave packets in a uniform magnetic field
authors: Qiong-Gui Lin
comments: REVTeX4, 7 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 298 (2002) 67-72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206036
abstract: A wave packet of a charged particle always make cyclic circular motion in a uniform magnetic field, just like a classical particle. The nonadiabatic geometric phase for an arbitrary wave packet can be expressed in terms of the mean value of a number operator. For a large class of wave packets, the geometric phase is proportional to the magnetic flux encircled by the orbit of the wave packet. For more general wave packets, however, the geometric phase contains an extra term.

id: quant-ph/0206037
title: Experimentally realizable characterizations of continuous variable Gaussian states
authors: M. S. Kim, Jinhyoung Lee, W. J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, This paper supersedes quant-ph/0203151
journal: Phys. Rev. A66, 030301(Rapid Comm) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206037
abstract: Measures of entanglement, fidelity and purity are basic yardsticks in quantum information processing. We propose how to implement these measures using linear devices and homodyne detectors for continuous variable Gaussian states. In particular, the test of entanglement becomes simple with some prior knowledge which is relevant to current experiments.

id: quant-ph/0206038
title: Spatial antibunching of photons with parametric down-conversion
authors: W.A.T. Nogueira, S.P. Walborn, S. Padua, C.H. Monken
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes made, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206038
abstract: The theoretical framework behind a recent experiment by Nogueira et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86}, 4009 (2001)] of spatial antibunching in a two-photon state generated by collinear type II parametric down-conversion and a birefringent double-slit is presented. The fourth-order quantum correlation function is evaluated and shown to violate the classical Schwarz-type inequality, ensuring that the field does not have a classical analog. We expect these results to be useful in the rapidly growing fields of quantum imaging and quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0206039
title: Experimental observation of spatial antibunching of photons
authors: W. A. T. Nogueira, S. P. Walborn, S. Padua, C. H. Monken
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4009 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206039
abstract: We report an interference experiment that shows transverse spatial antibunching of photons. Using collinear parametric down-conversion in a Young-type fourth-order interference setup we show interference patterns that violate the classical Schwarz inequality and should not exist at all in a classical description.

id: quant-ph/0206040
title: Producing the {\it a priori} pure entangled states by type II prametric downconversion
authors: Wang Xiang-Bin
comments: 8 pages. 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206040
abstract: We propose a scheme to produce the pure entangled states through type II downconversion. In the scheme, the vacuum states are excluded and the a prori pure entangled states are produced and verified without destroying the state itself. This can help to carry out the many unditional experiments related to quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0206041
title: Entanglement of individual photon and atomic ensembles
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation (QIC), Vol. 3, No. 6 (2003) 627-634
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206041
abstract: Here we present an experimentally feasible scheme to entangle flying qubit (individual photon with polarization modes) and stationary qubit (atomic ensembles with long-lived collective excitations). This entanglement integrate two different species can act as a critical element for the coherent transform of quantum information between flying and stationary qubits. The entanglement degree can be also adjusted expediently with linear optics. Furthermore, the present scheme can be modified to generate this entanglement in a way event-ready with the employment of a pair of entangled photons. Then successful preparation can be unambiguously heralded by coincident between two single-photon detectors. Its application for individal photons quantum memory is also analyzed. The physical requirements of all those preparation and applications processing are moderate, and well fit the present technique.

id: quant-ph/0206042
title: Does Excess Quantum Noise Exist in Spontaneous Processes?
authors: A. Aiello, M. P. van Exter, G. Nienhuis, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 7 pages, 3 figure in the text. Submitted to Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206042
abstract: We investigate the role of excess quantum noise in type-II degenerate parametric down conversion in a cavity with non-orthogonal polarization eigenmodes. Since only two modes are involved we are able to derive an analytical expression for the twin-photon generation rate measured outside the cavity as a function of the degree of mode nonorthogonality. Contrary to recent claims we conclude that there is no evidence of excess quantum noise for a parametric amplifier working so far below threshold that spontaneous processes dominate.

id: quant-ph/0206043
title: Stability properties of |Psi|^2 in Bohmian dynamics
authors: G. Potel, M. Munoz-Alenar, F. Barranco, E. Vigezzi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206043
abstract: According to Bohmian dynamics, the particles of a quantum system move along trajectories, following a velocity field determined by the wave-function Psi(x,t). We show that for simple one-dimensional systems any initial probability distribution of a statistical ensemble approaches asymptotically |Psi(x,t)}|^2 if the system is subject to a random noise of arbitrarily small intensity.

id: quant-ph/0206044
title: Local Detection of Entanglement
authors: G. Rigolin, C. O. Escobar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, title changed, published version: to appear in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37, 291 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206044
abstract: We construct an explicit model where it can be established if a two mode pure Gaussian system is entangled or not by acting only on one of the parts that constitute the system. Measuring the dispersion in momentum and the time evolution of the dispersion in position of one particle we can tell if entanglement is present as well as the degree of entanglement of the system.

id: quant-ph/0206045
title: Equations of motion in odd-dimensional spaces and T-, C-invariance
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 7 pages
journal: Preprint of Institute of Theor. Phys., N 69-17, Kiev, 1969, 13 p
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206045
abstract: The properties of the equation of Dirac type in three-dimensional and five-dimensional Minkowski space-time with respect to time reflection (in sense of Pauli and Wigner) as well as to the operation of charge conjugation are investigated. P-, T-, C-invariance of Dirac equation for the cases of four components (in three-dimentional space) and eight components (in five-dimensional space) is established. Within the framework of the Poincare group a relativistic equation is suggested wich describes the movement of a particle with non-fixed (indefinite) mass in external electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0206046
title: Logical Inconsistencies in Proofs of the Theorem of Bell
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206046
abstract: We discuss a class of proofs of Bell-type inequalities that are based on tables of potential outcomes. These proofs state in essence: if one can only imagine (or write down in a table) the potential outcome of a hidden parameter model for EPR experiments then a contradiction to experiment and quantum mechanics follows. We show that these proofs do not contain hidden variables that relate to time or, if they do, lead to logical contradictions that render them invalid.

id: quant-ph/0206047
title: On representations of the inhomogeneous de Sitter group and equations in five-dimensional Minkowski space
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, Ivan Yu. Krivsky
comments: 12 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys. B14 (1969) 573-585
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206047
abstract: This paper is a continuation and elaboration of our brief notice quant-ph/0206057 (Nucl. Phys. B, 1968, 7, 79) where some approach to the variable-mass problem was proposed. Here we have found a definite realization of irreducible representations of the inhomogeneous group P(1,n), the group of translations and rotations in (1+n)-dimensional Minkowski space, in two classes (when P_0^2-P_k^2>0 and P_0^2-P_k^2<0). All P(1,n)-invariant equations of the Schrodinger-Foldy type are written down. Some equations of physical interpretation of the quantal scheme based on the inhomogeneous de Sitter group P(1,4) are discussed. The analysis of the Dirac and Kemmer-Duffin type equations in the P(1,4) scheme is carried out. A concrete realization of representations of the algebra P(1,4) connected with this equations, is obtained. The transformations of the Foldy-Wouthuysen type for this equations are found. It is shown that in the P(1,4) scheme of the Kemmer-Duffin type equation describes a fermion multiplet like the nucleon-antinucleon.

id: quant-ph/0206048
title: On representations of the inhomogeneous de Sitter group and on equations of the Schrodinger-Foldy type
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, Ivan Yu. Krivsky
comments: Report presented at the Conference on Composite Models of Elementary Particles (Institute for Theoretical Physics, Kiev, Ukrainian SSR, June 1968)
journal: Preprint of Institute of Theor. Phys., N 69-1, Kiev, 1969, 13 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206048
abstract: This paper is a continuation and elaboration of our work quant-ph/0206057 (Nucl. Phys. B, 1968, 7, 79) where some approach to the variable-mass problem were proposed. Here we have found a concret realization of irreducible representations of the inhomogeneous group P(1,n) - the group of translations and rotations in (1+n)-dimensional Minkowski space in two classes (when P_0^2-P_k^2>0 and P_0^2-P_k^2<0). All the P(1,n)-invariant equations of the Schrodinger-Foldy type are written down. Some questions of a physical interpretation of the quantum, mechanical scheme based on the inhomogeneous de Sitter group P(1,n) are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0206049
title: Atomic vapor-based high efficiency optical detectors with photon number resolution
authors: Daniel James, Paul Kwiat
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206049
abstract: We propose a novel approach to the important fundamental problem of detecting weak optical fields at the few photon level. The ability to detect with high efficiency (>99%), and to distinguish the number of photons in a given time interval is a very challenging technical problem with enormous potential pay-offs in quantum communications and information processing. Our proposal diverges from standard solid-state photo-detector technology by employing an atomic vapor as the active medium, prepared in a specific quantum state using laser radiation. The absorption of a photon will be aided by a dressing laser, and the presence or absence of an excited atom will be detected using the ``cycling transition'' approach perfected for ion traps. By first incorporating an appropriate upconversion scheme, our method can be applied to a wide variety of optical wavelengths.

id: quant-ph/0206050
title: Phase space localization of a scalar charged particle
authors: A.A. Semenov
comments: Review of PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206050
abstract: The thesis is devoted to the phase space representation of relativistic quantum mechanics. For a class of observables with matrix-valued Weyl symbols proportional to the identity matrix, the Weyl-Wigner-Moyal formalism is proposed. The evolution equations are found to coincide with their counterparts in relativistic quantum mechanics with non-local Hamiltonian. The difference between the theories is connected with peculiarities of the constraints on the initial conditions. Effective increase in coherence between eigenstates of the Hamiltonian is found. Relativistic coherent states that take into account a non-trivial charge structure of the position and momentum operators and satisfy the charge superselection rule are considered. On this basis, the entangled coherent states are developed.

id: quant-ph/0206051
title: Hydrodynamic Models of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Oscar Chavoya-Aceves
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206051
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: quant-ph/0206052
title: Non-locality of Quantum Mechanics and the Locality of General Relativity
authors: Jeeva Anandan
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Invited talk at the Meeting on the Interface of Gravitational and Quantum Realms, IUCAA, Pune, India, Dec. 17-21, 2001. To be published in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206052
abstract: The conflict between the locality of general relativity, reflected in its space-time description, and the non-locality of quantum mechanics, contained in its Hilbert space description, is discussed. Gauge covariant non-local observables that depend on gauge fields and gravity as well as the wave function are used in order to try to understand and minimize this conflict within the frame-work of these two theories. Applications are made to the Aharonov-Bohm effect and its generalizations to non Abelian gauge fields and gravity.

id: quant-ph/0206053
title: Quantum random walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 9 pages, journal reference added
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol.1, Issue 5, pp.345-354 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206053
abstract: This letter treats the quantum random walk on the line determined by a 2 times 2 unitary matrix U. A combinatorial expression for the mth moment of the quantum random walk is presented by using 4 matrices, P, Q, R and S given by U. The dependence of the mth moment on U and initial qubit state phi is clarified. A new type of limit theorems for the quantum walk is given. Furthermore necessary and sufficient conditions for symmetry of distribution for the quantum walk is presented. Our results show that the behavior of quantum random walk is striking different from that of the classical ramdom walk.

id: quant-ph/0206054
title: Cornelius Lanczos -- Discoveries in the Quantum and General Relativity Theories
authors: Mendel Sachs
comments: 7 pages. To appear in Annales Fond. Louis de Broglie (2002)
journal: Annales Fondation L. de Broglie, Vol.27, No.1, (2002) 85-91
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206054
abstract: Two of Lanczos' seminal contributions in physics that are not generally known about in the physics community are discussed and commented in relation to more recent investigations: First, his integral formulation of the Schroedinger equation that he published just before Schroedinger himself published his differential equation formulation of quantum mechanics, and, second, his solution to the problem of equations of motion of material particles in the theory of general relativity.

id: quant-ph/0206055
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity, weak pseudo-Hermiticity and eta-orthogonality condition
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX, no figure
journal: Phys.Lett. A301 (2002) 173-176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206055
abstract: We discuss certain features of pseudo-Hermiticity and weak pseudo-Hermiticity conditions and point out that, contrary to a recent claim, there is no inconsistency if the correct orthogonality condition is used for the class of pseudo-Hermitian, PT-symmetric Hamiltonians of the type $H_{\beta} = [p + {\rm i} \beta \nu(x)]^2/2m + V(x)$.

id: quant-ph/0206056
title: A relativistically invariant mass operator
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 11 pages
journal: Ukr.J.Phys. 13 (1968) 256-262
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206056
abstract: In Ukrain. J. Phys., 1967, V.12, N 5, p.741-746 it was shown how, for a given (discrete) mass spectrum of elementary or hypothetical particles, it was possible to construct a non-trivial algebra G containing a Poincare algebra P as a subalgebra so that the mass operator, defined throughout the space where one of the irreducible representations G is given, is self-conjugate and its spectrum coincides with the given mass spectrum. Such an algebra was constructed in explicit form for the nonrelativistic case, i.e., the generators were written for the algebra. However, the problem of how to assign the algebra G constructively and determine an explicit form of the mass operator in the relativistic case has remained unsolved. In the present work we present a solution of this problem, construct continuum analogs of the classical algebras U(N) and Sp(2N), and show that the problem of including the Poincare algebra can be formulated in the language of wave function equations.

id: quant-ph/0206057
title: On a possible approach to the variable-mass problem
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, Ivan Yu. Krivsky
comments: 4 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys. B7 (1968) 79-82
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206057
abstract: The mass operator M is introduced as an independent dynamical variable which is taken as the translation generator P_4 of the inhomogenous De Sitter group. The classification of representations of the algebra P(1,4) of this group is performed and the corresponding P(1,4) invariant equations for variable-mass particles are written out. In this way we have succeeded, in particular, in uniting the ``external'' and ``internal'' (SU_2) symmetries in a non-trivial fashion.

id: quant-ph/0206058
title: The Adaptive Classical Capacity of a Quantum Channel, or Information Capacities of Three Symmetric Pure States in Three Dimensions
authors: Peter W. Shor
comments: 44 pages, 17 figures, minor errors corrected and new Conjecture 1 added (thus renumbering all conjectures); replaced in May, 2003 to correct more minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206058
abstract: We investigate the capacity of three symmetric quantum states in three real dimensions to carry classical information. Several such capacities have already been defined, depending on what operations are allowed in the sending and receiving protocols. These include the C_{1,1} capacity, which is the capacity achievable if separate measurements must be used for each of the received states, and the C_{1,infinity} capacity, which is the capacity achievable if joint measurements are allowed on the tensor product of all the received states. We discover a new classical information capacity of quantum channels, the adaptive capacity C_{1,A}, which lies strictly between the C_{1,1} and the C_{1,infinity} capacities. The adaptive capacity requires each of the signals to be measured by a separate apparatus, but allows the quantum states of these signals to be measured in stages, with the first stage partially reducing their quantum states, and where measurements in subsequent stages which further reduce the quantum states may depend on the results of a classical computation taking as input the outcomes of the first round of measurements.

id: quant-ph/0206059
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computing for Random Satisfiability Problems
authors: Tad Hogg
comments: added discussion of discrete adiabatic method, and simulations with 30 bits 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 67 022314 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206059
abstract: The discrete formulation of adiabatic quantum computing is compared with other search methods, classical and quantum, for random satisfiability (SAT) problems. With the number of steps growing only as the cube of the number of variables, the adiabatic method gives solution probabilities close to 1 for problem sizes feasible to evaluate via simulation on current computers. However, for these sizes the minimum energy gaps of most instances are fairly large, so the good performance scaling seen for small problems may not reflect asymptotic behavior where costs are dominated by tiny gaps. Moreover, the resulting search costs are much higher than for other methods. Variants of the quantum algorithm that do not match the adiabatic limit give lower costs, on average, and slower growth than the conventional GSAT heuristic method.

id: quant-ph/0206060
title: Does particle decay cause wave function collapse: An experimental test
authors: Spencer R. Klein, Joakim Nystrand
comments: Slightly revised version, to appear in Phys. Lett. A. 11 pgs., including 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A308 (2003) 323-328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206060
abstract: We describe an experimental test of whether particle decay causes wave function collapse. The test uses interference between two well separated, but coherent, sources of vector mesons. The short-lived mesons decay before their wave functions can overlap, so any interference must involve identical final states. Unlike previous tests of nonlocality, the interference involves continuous variables, momentum and position. Interference can only occur if the wave function retains amplitudes for all possible decays. The interference can be studied through the transverse momentum spectrum of the reconstructed mesons.

id: quant-ph/0206061
title: Exact Performance of Concatenated Quantum Codes
authors: Benjamin Rahn, Andrew C. Doherty, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: An expanded presentation of the analytic methods and results from quant-ph/0111003; 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206061
abstract: When a logical qubit is protected using a quantum error-correcting code, the net effect of coding, decoherence (a physical channel acting on qubits in the codeword) and recovery can be represented exactly by an effective channel acting directly on the logical qubit. In this paper we describe a procedure for deriving the map between physical and effective channels that results from a given coding and recovery procedure. We show that the map for a concatenation of codes is given by the composition of the maps for the constituent codes. This perspective leads to an efficient means for calculating the exact performance of quantum codes with arbitrary levels of concatenation. We present explicit results for single-bit Pauli channels. For certain codes under the symmetric depolarizing channel, we use the coding maps to compute exact threshold error probabilities for achievability of perfect fidelity in the infinite concatenation limit.

id: quant-ph/0206062
title: Can "quantumness" be an origin of dissipation?
authors: T. Arimitsu
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206062
abstract: In their constructions of system of quantum stochastic differential equations, mathematicians and/or several physicists interpret that the function of random force operator is to preserve the canonical commutation relation in time, i.e., to secure the unitarity of time evolution generator even for dissipative systems. If this is the case, it means physically that the origin of dissipation is attributed to quantum non-commutativity ({\it quantumness}). The mechanism that the mathematician's approaches rest on will be investigated from the unified view point of Non-Equilibrium Thermo Field Dynamics (NETFD) which is a canonical operator formalism of quantum systems in far-from-equilibrium state including the system of quantum {\it stochastic} equations.

id: quant-ph/0206063
title: Mixed state geometric phases, entangled systems, and local unitary transformations
authors: Marie Ericsson, Arun K. Pati, Erik Sj?qvist, Johan Br?nnlund, Daniel. K. L. Oi
comments: minor changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 090405 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206063
abstract: The geometric phase for a pure quantal state undergoing an arbitrary evolution is a ``memory'' of the geometry of the path in the projective Hilbert space of the system. We find that Uhlmann's geometric phase for a mixed quantal state undergoing unitary evolution not only depends on the geometry of the path of the system alone but also on a constrained bi-local unitary evolution of the purified entangled state. We analyze this in general, illustrate it for the qubit case, and propose an experiment to test this effect. We also show that the mixed state geometric phase proposed recently in the context of interferometry requires uni-local transformations and is therefore essentially a property of the system alone.

id: quant-ph/0206064
title: Consciousness: The rules of engagement
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, v2. - v5., reword rules, stylistic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206064
abstract: We examine the role of a conscious observer in a typical quantum mechanical measurement. Four rules are given that govern stochastic choice and state reduction in several cases of continuous and intermittent observation. It is found that consciousness always accompanies a state reduction leading to observation, but its presence is not sufficient to 'cause' a reduction. The distinction is clarified and codified by the rules that are given below. This is the first of several papers that lead to an experimental test of the rules, and of the "parallel principle" that is described elsewhere. Key words: Brain states, boundary conditions, consciousness, conscious observer, environment, decoherence, macroscopic superposition, measurement, state reduction, state collapse, von Neumann.

id: quant-ph/0206065
title: Schrodinger's cat: The rules of engagement
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 13 pages, v2. - v6: reword rules, stylistic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206065
abstract: In a previous paper we examined the role of a conscious observer in a typical quantum mechanical measurement. Four rules were given that were found to govern the stochastic choice and state reduction in several cases of continuous and intermittent observation. It was shown that consciousness always accompanies a state reduction leading to observation, but its presence is not sufficient to 'cause' a reduction. The distinction is clarified and codified by the rules that are repeated below. In this paper, these rules are successfully applied to two different versions of the Schrodinger cat experiment. Key Words: Brain states, boundary conditions, cat paradox, consciousness, conscious observer, environment, decoherence, macroscopic superposition, measurement, state reduction, state collapse, von Neumann.

id: quant-ph/0206066
title: Quantum searching a classical database (or how we learned to stop worrying and love the bomb)
authors: Terry Rudolph, Lov Grover
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206066
abstract: We show how to perform a quantum search for a classical object, specifically for a classical object which performs no coherent evolution on the quantum computer being used for the search. We do so by using interaction free measurement as a subroutine in a quantum search algorithm. In addition to providing a simple example of how non-unitary processes which approximate unitary ones can be useful in a quantum algorithm, our procedure requires only one photon regardless of the size of the database, thereby establishing an upper bound on the amount of energy required to search an arbitrarily large database. Alternatively, our result can be interpreted as showing how to perform an interaction free measurement with a single photon on an arbitrarily large number of possible bomb positions simultaneously. We also provide a simple example demonstrating that in terms of the number of database queries, the procedure outlined here can outperform the best classical one.

id: quant-ph/0206067
title: Complete eigenstates of identical qubits arranged in regular polygons
authors: Terry Rudolph, Itay Yavin, Helen Freedhoff
comments: Added a figure showing how these results can be used to compute deviations from "equal collective decoherence" approximations
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 69, 013815 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206067
abstract: We calculate the energy eigenvalues and eigenstates corresponding to coherent single and multiple excitations of an array of N identical qubits or two-level atoms (TLA's) arranged on the vertices of a regular polygon. We assume only that the coupling occurs via an exchange interaction which depends on the separation between the qubits. We include the interactions between all pairs of qubits, and our results are valid for arbitrary distances relative to the radiation wavelength. To illustrate the usefulness of these states, we plot the distance dependence of the decay rates of the n=2 (biexciton) eigenstates of an array of 4 qubits, and tabulate the biexciton eigenvalues and eigenstates, and absorption frequencies, line widths, and relative intensities for polygons consisting of N=2,...,9 qubits in the long-wavelength limit.

id: quant-ph/0206068
title: Constructing physically intuitive graph invariants
authors: Terry Rudolph
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206068
abstract: In this brief note I try to give a simple example of where physical intuition about a collection of interacting qubits can lead to the construction of "natural" versions of what are, generically, quite abstract mathematical objects - in this case graph invariants. This note is written primarily for physicists who do not want to go through the painful process of trying to understand Ed Witten's vastly more complicated construction of physically intuitive knot invariants, but who'd like some idea of how physical intuition can play a role in such things.

id: quant-ph/0206069
title: Parameter scaling in the decoherent quantum-classical transition for chaotic systems
authors: Arjendu K. Pattanayak, Bala Sundaram
comments: Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206069
abstract: The quantum to classical transition has been shown to depend on a number of parameters. Key among these are a scale length for the action, $\hbar$, a measure of the coupling between a system and its environment, $D$, and, for chaotic systems, the classical Lyapunov exponent, $\lambda$. We propose computing a measure, reflecting the proximity of quantum and classical evolutions, as a multivariate function of $(\hbar,\lambda,D)$ and searching for transformations that collapse this hyper-surface into a function of a composite parameter $\zeta = \hbar^{\alpha}\lambda^{\beta}D^{\gamma}$. We report results for the quantum Cat Map, showing extremely accurate scaling behavior over a wide range of parameters and suggest that, in general, the technique may be effective in constructing universality classes in this transition.

id: quant-ph/0206070
title: A simple demonstration of Bell's theorem involving two observers and no probabilities or inequalities
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: 8 pages, 1 table, 4 figures (some in color).This is a much briefer version of the earlier paper (with an altered title!) that gives a tighter description of the main gedanken experiment and also eliminates some obscurities in its presentation. Sections 4-6 plus the appendix of the earlier version, which treat specialized topics that do not bear on the main theme, have now been eliminated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206070
abstract: This paper describes a device, consisting of a central source and two widely separated detectors with six switch settings each, that provides a simple gedanken demonstration of Bell's theorem without relying on either statistical effects or the occurrence of rare events. The mechanism underlying the operation of the device is revealed for readers with a knowledge of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0206071
title: On first-arrival-time distributions for a Dirac electron in 1+1 dimensions
authors: D. Alonso, R. Sala Mayato, C. R. Leavens
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, (revtex4)
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 42108 Vol 66 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206071
abstract: For the special case of freely evolving Dirac electrons in $1 + 1$ dimensions, Feynman checkerboard paths have previously been used to derive Wigner's arrival-time distribution which includes all arrivals. Here, an attempt is made to use these paths to determine the corresponding distribution of first-arrival times. Simple analytic expressions are obtained for the relevant components of the first-arrival propagator. These are used to investigate the relative importance of the first-arrival contribution to the Wigner arrival-time distribution and of the contribution arising from interference between first and later (i.e. second, third, ...) arrivals. It is found that a distribution of (intrinsic) first-arrival times for a Dirac electron cannot in general be consistently defined using checkerboard paths, not even approximately in the nonrelativistic regime.

id: quant-ph/0206072
title: Pulse-mode quantum projection synthesis: Effects of mode mismatch on optical state truncation and preparation
authors: Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Adam Miranowicz, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 053809 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206072
abstract: Quantum projection synthesis can be used for phase-probability-distribution measurement, optical-state truncation and preparation. The method relies on interfering optical lights, which is a major challenge in experiments performed by pulsed light sources. In the pulsed regime, the time frequency overlap of the interfering lights plays a crucial role on the efficiency of the method when they have different mode structures. In this paper, the pulsed mode projection synthesis is developed, the mode structure of interfering lights are characterized and the effect of this overlap (or mode match) on the fidelity of optical-state truncation and preparation is investigated. By introducing the positive-operator-valued measure (POVM) for the detection events in the scheme, the effect of mode mismatch between the photon-counting detectors and the incident lights are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0206073
title: Laser induced breakdown of the magnetic field reversal symmetry in the propagation of unpolarized light
authors: G.S. Agarwal, Shubhrangshu Dasgupta
comments: RevTex, 6 pages, 10 figures, Two Column format, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 023814 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206073
abstract: We show how a medium, under the influece of a coherent control field which is resonant or close to resonance to an appropriate atomic transition, can lead to very strong asymmetries in the propagation of unpolarized light when the direction of the magnetic field is reversed. We show how EIT can be used to mimic effects occuring in natural systems and that EIT can produce very large asymmetries as we use electric dipole allowed transitions. Using density matrix calculations we present results for the breakdown of the magnetic field reversal symmetry for two different atomic configurations.

id: quant-ph/0206074
title: How One Shutter Can Close N Slits
authors: Y. Aharonov, L. Vaidman
comments: 3 pages RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206074
abstract: It is shown that a quantum shutter, pre- and post-selected in particular quantum states, can close simultaneously arbitrary number of slits preventing the passage of a single photon in an arbitrary state. A set of K pre- and post-selected shutters can close the slits preventing the passage of K or less photons. This result indicates that the surprising properties of pre- and post-selected quantum systems are even more robust than previously expected.

id: quant-ph/0206075
title: Two-electron quantum dots as scalable qubits
authors: J.H. Jefferson, M. Fearn, D.L.J. Tipton, T.P. Spiller
comments: Revised version, accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206075
abstract: We show that two electrons confined in a square semiconductor quantum dot have two isolated low-lying energy eigenstates, which have the potential to form the basis of scalable computing elements (qubits). Initialisation, one-qubit and two-qubit universal gates, and readout are performed using electrostatic gates and magnetic fields. Two-qubit transformations are performed via the Coulomb interaction between electrons on adjacent dots. Choice of initial states and subsequent asymmetric tuning of the tunnelling energy parameters on adjacent dots control the effect of this interaction.

id: quant-ph/0206076
title: Are simultaneous Bell measurements possible?
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: several changes and corrections
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 39 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206076
abstract: All experimental tests of Bell-type inequalities and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger setups rely on the separate and successive measurement of the terms involved. We discuss possibilities of experimental setups to measure all relevant terms simultaneously in a single experiment and find this to be impossible. One reason is the lack of multi-partite states which are unique in the sense that a measurement of some observable on one particle fixes the value of the corresponding observables of the other particles as well.

id: quant-ph/0206077
title: On the P- and T-non-invariant two-component equation for the neutrino
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 8 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys. B21 (1970) 321-330
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206077
abstract: The relativistic two-component equation describing the free motion of particles with zero mass and spin 1/2, which is P- and T-non-invariant but C-invariant, is found. The representation of the Poincare group for zero mass and discrete spin is constructed. The position operator for such a particle is defined.

id: quant-ph/0206078
title: On the CP-noninvariant equations for the particle with zero mass and spin s=1/2
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, A.L. Grishchenko
comments: 2 pages
journal: Lett.Nuovo Cim. 4S1 (1970) 927-928
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206078
abstract: One of us quant-ph/0206077 (Nucl. Phys. B, 1970, 21, 321) has shown that for the particle with zero mass and spin s=1/2 there are three types of two-component equations (or one four-component equation with three different subsidiary conditions) which differ from one another by P, T and C properties. One of these equations is the two-component Weyl equation. In this note we give two other relativistic invariant equations.

id: quant-ph/0206079
title: On two-component equations for zero mass particles
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, A.L. Grishchenko
comments: 12 pages
journal: Preprint of Institute of Theor. Phys., N 70-40, Kiev, 1970
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206079
abstract: The paper presents a detailed theoretical-group analysis of three types of two-component equations of motion which describe the particle with zero mass and spin 1/2. There are studied P-, T- and C-propertias of the equations obtained.

id: quant-ph/0206080
title: Spontaneous emission of an atom in front of a mirror
authors: Almut Beige, Jiannis Pachos, Herbert Walther
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, revised version, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 063801 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206080
abstract: Motivated by a recent experiment [J. Eschner {\it et al.}, Nature {\bf 413}, 495 (2001)], we now present a theoretical study on the fluorescence of an atom in front of a mirror. On the assumption that the presence of the distant mirror and a lens imposes boundary conditions on the electric field in a plane close to the atom, we derive the intensities of the emitted light as a function of an effective atom-mirror distance. The results obtained are in good agreement with the experimental findings.

id: quant-ph/0206081
title: Comment on "Quantum optimization for combinatorial searches"
authors: Christof Zalka, Todd A. Brun
comments: Final version. Minor changes. Appeared in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 4, C1 (2002). http://www.njp.org
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206081
abstract: This is a comment on a recent publication claiming to have found a ``quantum optimization'' algorithm which outperforms known algorithms for minimizing some ``cost function''. Unfortunately, this algorithm is no better than choosing a state at random and checking whether it has low cost.

id: quant-ph/0206082
title: Distributed entanglement as a probe for the quantum structure of spacetime
authors: Pieter Kok, Ulvi Yurtsever, Samuel L. Braunstein, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206082
abstract: Simultaneity is a well-defined notion in special relativity once a Minkowski metric structure is fixed on the spacetime continuum (manifold) of events. In quantum gravity, however, the metric is not expected to be a fixed, classical structure, but a fluctuating quantum operator which may assume a coherent superposition of two classically-distinguishable values. A natural question to ask is what happens to the notion of simultaneity and synchronization when the metric is in a quantum superposition. Here we show that the resource of distributed entanglement of the same kind as used by Jozsa et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2010 (2000)] gives rise to an experimental probe that is sensitive to coherent quantum fluctuations in the spacetime metric.

id: quant-ph/0206083
title: Fresnel Representation of the Wigner Function: An Operational Approach
authors: P. Lougovski, E. Solano, Z. M. Zhang, H. Walther, H. Mack, W. P. Schleich
comments: 4 pages include 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 010401 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206083
abstract: We present an operational definition of the Wigner function. Our method relies on the Fresnel transform of measured Rabi oscillations and applies to motional states of trapped atoms as well as to field states in cavities. We illustrate this technique using data from recent experiments in ion traps [D. M. Meekhof et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 1796 (1996)] and in cavity QED [B. Varcoe et al., Nature 403, 743 (2000)]. The values of the Wigner functions of the underlying states at the origin of phase space are W(0)=+1.75 for the vibrational ground state and W(0)=-1.4 for the one-photon number state. We generalize this method to wave packets in arbitrary potentials.

id: quant-ph/0206084
title: Bell inequalities and distillability in N-quantum-bit systems
authors: Antonio Acin, Valerio Scarani, Michael M. Wolf
comments: REVTEX, 12 pages, two figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042323 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206084
abstract: The relation between Bell inequalities with two two-outcome measurements per site and distillability is analyzed in systems of an arbitrary number of quantum bits. We observe that the violation of any of these inequalities by a quantum state implies that pure-state entanglement can be distilled from it. The corresponding distillation protocol may require that some of the parties join into several groups. We show that there exists a link between the amount of the Bell inequality violation and the size of the groups they have to form for distillation. Thus, a strong violation is always sufficient for full N-partite distillability. This result also allows for a security proof of multi-partite quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols.

id: quant-ph/0206085
title: Pseudo-Hermitian version of the charged harmonic oscillator and its "forgotten" exact solutions
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pages incl. 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206085
abstract: An unusual type of the exact solvability is reported. It is exemplified by the Coulomb plus harmonic oscillator in D dimensions after a complexification of its Hamiltonian which keeps the energies real. Infinitely many bound states are found in closed form which generalizes the even-parity harmonic-oscillator states at zero charge. Apparently, the model is halfway between exact and quasi-exact.

id: quant-ph/0206086
title: How to correct small quantum errors
authors: M. Keyl, R. F. Werner
comments: LaTeX2e, 23 pages, 6 figures (3 eps, 3 pstricks)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206086
abstract: The theory of quantum error correction is a cornerstone of quantum information processing. It shows that quantum data can be protected against decoherence effects, which otherwise would render many of the new quantum applications practically impossible. In this paper we give a self contained introduction to this theory and to the closely related concept of quantum channel capacities. We show, in particular, that it is possible (using appropriate error correcting schemes) to send a non-vanishing amount of quantum data undisturbed (in a certain asymptotic sense) through a noisy quantum channel T, provided the errors produced by T are small enough.

id: quant-ph/0206087
title: Reply to: Comment on "Quantum Optimization for Combinatorial Searches"
authors: C. A. Trugenberger
comments: 3 pages, harvmac
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206087
abstract: This is my reply to Zalka and Brun's criticism of my recent paper on quantum optimization heuristics. Essentially, this criticism is shown to be utterly irrelevant.

id: quant-ph/0206088
title: An introduction to quantum coin-tossing
authors: C. Doescher, M. Keyl
comments: LaTeX2e, 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206088
abstract: We review the quantum version of a well known problem of cryptography called coin tossing (``flipping a coin via telephone''). It can be regarded as a game where two remote players (who distrust each other) tries to generate a uniformly distributed random bit which is common to both parties. The only resource they can use to perform this task is a classical or quantum communication channel. In this paper we provide a general overview over such coin tossing protocols, concerning in particular their security.

id: quant-ph/0206089
title: Book Review: 'A New Kind of Science'
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: Revised version. 14 pages, to appear in Quantum Information & Computation, September 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206089
abstract: This is a critical review of the book 'A New Kind of Science' by Stephen Wolfram. We do not attempt a chapter-by-chapter evaluation, but instead focus on two areas: computational complexity and fundamental physics. In complexity, we address some of the questions Wolfram raises using standard techniques in theoretical computer science. In physics, we examine Wolfram's proposal for a deterministic model underlying quantum mechanics, with 'long-range threads' to connect entangled particles. We show that this proposal cannot be made compatible with both special relativity and Bell inequality violation.

id: quant-ph/0206090
title: Some Reflections on the Status of Conventional Quantum Theory when Applied to Quantum Gravity
authors: C.J. Isham
comments: Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206090
abstract: All current approaches to quantum gravity employ essentially standard quantum theory including, in particular, continuum quantities such as the real or complex numbers. However, I wish to argue that this may be fundamentally wrong in so far as the use of these continuum quantities in standard quantum theory can be traced back to certain {\em a priori} assumptions about the nature of space and time: assumptions that may be incompatible with the view of space and time adopted by a quantum gravity theory. My conjecture is that in, some yet to be determined sense, to each type of space-time there is associated a corresponding type of quantum theory in which continuum quantities do not necessarily appear, being replaced with structures that are appropriate to the specific space-time. Topos theory then arises as a possible tool for `gluing' together these different theories associated with the different space-times. As a concrete example of the use of topos ideas, I summarise recent work applying presheaf theory to the Kochen-Specher theorem and the assignment of values to physical quantities in a quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0206091
title: Quantum Technology: The Second Quantum Revolution
authors: Jonathan P. Dowling, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 24 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206091
abstract: We are currently in the midst of a second quantum revolution. The first quantum revolution gave us new rules that govern physical reality. The second quantum revolution will take these rules and use them to develop new technologies. In this review we discuss the principles upon which quantum technology is based and the tools required to develop it. We discuss a number of examples of research programs that could deliver quantum technologies in coming decades including; quantum information technology, quantum electromechanical systems, coherent quantum electronics, quantum optics and coherent matter technology.

id: quant-ph/0206092
title: Practical free-space quantum key distribution over 10 km in daylight and at night
authors: Richard J. Hughes, Jane E. Nordholt, Derek Derkacs, Charles G. Peterson
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, 1 table; to be published in New Journal of Physics: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206092
abstract: We have demonstrated quantum key distribution (QKD) over a 10-km, 1-airmass atmospheric range during daylight and at night. Secret random bit sequences of the quality required for the cryptographic keys used to initialize secure communications devices were transferred at practical rates with realistic security. By identifying the physical parameters that determine the system's secrecy efficiency, we infer that free-space QKD will be practical over much longer ranges under these and other atmospheric and instrumental conditions.

id: quant-ph/0206093
title: A Semidefinite Programming Approach to Optimal Unambiguous Discrimination of Quantum States
authors: Yonina C. Eldar
comments: To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 49, pp. 446-456, Feb. 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206093
abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of unambiguous discrimination between a set of linearly independent pure quantum states. We show that the design of the optimal measurement that minimizes the probability of an inconclusive result can be formulated as a semidefinite programming problem. Based on this formulation, we develop a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for an optimal quantum measurement. We show that the optimal measurement can be computed very efficiently in polynomial time by exploiting the many well-known algorithms for solving semidefinite programs, which are guaranteed to converge to the global optimum. Using the general conditions for optimality, we derive necessary and sufficient conditions so that the measurement that results in an equal probability of an inconclusive result for each one of the quantum states is optimal. We refer to this measurement as the equal-probability measurement (EPM). We then show that for any state set, the prior probabilities of the states can be chosen such that the EPM is optimal. Finally, we consider state sets with strong symmetry properties and equal prior probabilities for which the EPM is optimal. We first consider geometrically uniform state sets that are defined over a group of unitary matrices and are generated by a single generating vector. We then consider compound geometrically uniform state sets which are generated by a group of unitary matrices using multiple generating vectors, where the generating vectors satisfy a certain (weighted) norm constraint.

id: quant-ph/0206094
title: An Inverse-Problem Approach to Designing Photonic Crystals for Cavity QED Experiments
authors: JM Geremia, Jon Williams, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, preprint available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206094
abstract: Photonic band gap (PBG) materials are attractive for cavity QED experiments because they provide extremely small mode volumes and are monolithic, integratable structures. As such, PBG cavities are a promising alternative to Fabry-Perot resonators. However, the cavity requirements imposed by QED experiments, such as the need for high Q (low cavity damping) and small mode volumes, present significant design challenges for photonic band gap materials. Here, we pose the PBG design problem as a mathematical inversion and provide an analytical solution for a two-dimensional crystal. We then address a planar (2D crystal with finite thickness) structure using numerical techniques.

id: quant-ph/0206095
title: Entwined Pairs and Schroedinger 's Equation
authors: G.N. Ord, R.B. Mann
comments: 16 pg. 1 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206095
abstract: We show that a point particle moving in space-time on entwined-pair paths generates Schroedinger's equation in a static potential in the appropriate continuum linit. This provides a new realist context for the Schroedinger equation within the domain of classical stochastic processes. It also suggests that self-quantizing systems may provide considerable insight into conventional quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0206096
title: Quantum computing in optical microtraps based on the motional states of neutral atoms
authors: K. Eckert, J. Mompart, X. X. Yi, J. Schliemann, D. Bruss, G. Birkl, M. Lewenstein
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, for animations of the gate operation, see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042317 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206096
abstract: We investigate quantum computation with neutral atoms in optical microtraps where the qubit is implemented in the motional states of the atoms, i.e., in the two lowest vibrational states of each trap. The quantum gate operation is performed by adiabatically approaching two traps and allowing tunneling and cold collisions to take place. We demonstrate the capability of this scheme to realize a square-root of swap gate, and address the problem of double occupation and excitation to other unwanted states. We expand the two-particle wavefunction in an orthonormal basis and analyze quantum correlations throughout the whole gate process. Fidelity of the gate operation is evaluated as a function of the degree of adiabaticity in moving the traps. Simulations are based on rubidium atoms in state-of-the-art optical microtraps with quantum gate realizations in the few tens of milliseconds duration range.

id: quant-ph/0206097
title: Error exponents for entanglement concentration
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Masato Koashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Fumiaki Morikoshi, Andreas Winter
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, LaTeX2e, iopart.cls, minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36, 527 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206097
abstract: Consider entanglement concentration schemes that convert n identical copies of a pure state into a maximally entangled state of a desired size with success probability being close to one in the asymptotic limit. We give the distillable entanglement, the number of Bell pairs distilled per copy, as a function of an error exponent, which represents the rate of decrease in failure probability as n tends to infinity. The formula fills the gap between the least upper bound of distillable entanglement in probabilistic concentration, which is the well-known entropy of entanglement, and the maximum attained in deterministic concentration. The method of types in information theory enables the detailed analysis of the distillable entanglement in terms of the error rate. In addition to the probabilistic argument, we consider another type of entanglement concentration scheme, where the initial state is deterministically transformed into a (possibly mixed) final state whose fidelity to a maximally entangled state of a desired size converges to one in the asymptotic limit. We show that the same formula as in the probabilistic argument is valid for the argument on fidelity by replacing the success probability with the fidelity. Furthermore, we also discuss entanglement yield when optimal success probability or optimal fidelity converges to zero in the asymptotic limit (strong converse), and give the explicit formulae for those cases.

id: quant-ph/0206098
title: Fractional Schrodinger equation
authors: N. Laskin
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.E66:056108,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206098
abstract: Properties of the fractional Schrodinger equation have been studied. We have proven the hermiticity of fractional Hamilton operator and established the parity conservation law for the fractional quantum mechanics. As physical applications of the fractional Schrodinger equation we have found the energy spectrum for a hydrogen-like atom - fractional ''Bohr atom'' and the energy spectrum of fractional oscillator in the semiclassical approximation. A new equation for the fractional probability current density has been developed and discussed. We also discuss the relationships between the fractional and the standard Schrodinger equations.

id: quant-ph/0206099
title: Measurement as soft final-state interaction with a stochastic system
authors: Karl-Erik Eriksson
comments: 19 pages, v2 email address added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206099
abstract: A small quantum scattering system (the microsystem) is studied in interaction with a large quantum system (the macrosystem) described by unknown stochastic variables. The interaction between the two systems is diagonal for the microsystem in a certain basis, and it leads to an imprint on the macrosystem. Moreover, the interaction is assumed to involve only small transfers of energy and momentum between the two systems (as compared to typical energies/momenta within the microsystem). This makes it suitable to carry out the analysis in scattering theory, where the transition amplitude for the whole system factorizes. The interaction taking place within the macrosystem is assumed to depend on the stochastic variables in such a way that, on the average, no particular channel is favoured. The result is then, in the thermodynamic limit of the macrosystem, that the whole system bifurcates and the microsystem ends up in a state described by one of the basis vectors (in the mentioned basis). The macrosystem ends up in an entangled state tied to this basis vector. For the ensemble of macrosystems, the interaction with the microsystem leads, on the average, to the usual decoherence and diagonal density matrix for the microsystem. The macrosystem can be interpreted as representing a measurement device for performing a measurement on the microsystem. The whole discussion is carried out within quantum mechanics itself without any modification or generalization.

id: quant-ph/0206100
title: Efficiency of free energy calculations of spin lattices by spectral quantum algorithms
authors: Cyrus P. Master, Fumiko Yamaguchi, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; corrected typographical and minor mathematical errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206100
abstract: Quantum algorithms are well-suited to calculate estimates of the energy spectra for spin lattice systems. These algorithms are based on the efficient calculation of the discrete Fourier components of the density of states. The efficiency of these algorithms in calculating the free energy per spin of general spin lattices to bounded error is examined. We find that the number of Fourier components required to bound the error in the free energy due to the broadening of the density of states scales polynomially with the number of spins in the lattice. However, the precision with which the Fourier components must be calculated is found to be an exponential function of the system size.

id: quant-ph/0206101
title: A pseudo-simulation of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm
authors: J.F.Schneiderman, M.E.Stanley, P.K.Aravind
comments: 20 pages, 4 tables, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206101
abstract: This paper presents a computer program, written in Maple, that allows a user to simulate certain aspects of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm on a desktop or laptop computer. The program does not simulate the unitary operations carried out by a quantum computer but does faithfully mimic its output at the crucial "readout" step of the order-finding process. The program reqires only two inputs from the user - the number to be factored (which can be up to 10 digits long) and the number of qubits to be used in the factoring (for which a helpful hint is given). The program then returns a detailed history of all its attempts at factoring the number, beginning with its various unsuccessful attempts and ending with the final successful attempt that leads to the correct factors. The structure of the simulation is described, a typical output produced by it is shown, and the factors limiting its performance are discussed. The purpose of this simulation is to provide the user with some "hands-on" experience of how quantum factoring works on integers somewhat larger than can be handled by today's quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0206102
title: Solving the quantum search problem in polynomial time on an NMR quantum computer
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 34 pages without figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206102
abstract: The quantum search problem is an important problem due to the fact that a general NP problem can be solved efficiently by an unsorted quantum search algorithm. Here it has been shown that the quantum search problem could be solved in polynomial time on an NMR quantum computer. The NMR ensemble quantum computation is based on the quantum mechanical unitary dynamics that both a closed quantum system and its ensemble obey the same quantum mechanical unitary dynamics instead of on the pseudopure state or the effective pure state of the classical NMR quantum computation. Based on the new principle the conventional NMR multiple-quantum spectroscopy has been developed to solve experimentally the search problem. The solution information of the search problem is first loaded on the unitary evolution propagator which is constructed with the oracle unitary operation and oracle-independent unitary operations and is used to excite the multiple-quantum coherence in a spin ensemble. Then the multiple- quantum spectroscopy is used to extract experimentally the solution information. It has been discussed how to enhance the output NMR signal of the quantum search NMR multiple-quantum pulse sequence and some approaches to enhancing the NMR signal are also proposed. The present work could be helpful for conventional high field NMR machines to solve efficiently the quantum search problem.

id: quant-ph/0206103
title: A New Type of Limit Theorems for the One-Dimensional Quantum Random Walk
authors: Norio Konno
comments: Final version; Journal-ref added; 14 pages; this arXiv version has no figures
journal: Journal of the Mathematical Society of Japan, Vol.57, No.4, pp.1179-1195 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206103
abstract: In this paper we consider the one-dimensional quantum random walk X^{varphi} _n at time n starting from initial qubit state varphi determined by 2 times 2 unitary matrix U. We give a combinatorial expression for the characteristic function of X^{varphi}_n. The expression clarifies the dependence of it on components of unitary matrix U and initial qubit state varphi. As a consequence of the above results, we present a new type of limit theorems for the quantum random walk. In contrast with the de Moivre-Laplace limit theorem, our symmetric case implies that X^{varphi}_n /n converges in distribution to a limit Z^{varphi} as n to infty where Z^{varphi} has a density 1 / pi (1-x^2) sqrt{1-2x^2} for x in (- 1/sqrt{2}, 1/sqrt{2}). Moreover we discuss some known simulation results based on our limit theorems.

id: quant-ph/0206104
title: On the three types of relativistic equations for particles with nonzero mass
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 3 pages
journal: Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 1972, V. 4, N 9, P. 344-346
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206104
abstract: In previous papers quant-ph/0206077, quant-ph/0206078, quant-ph/0206079 we have shown that there exist three types of the relativistic equations for the massless particles. Here we show that for the free particles and antiparticles with the mass m>0 and the arbitrary spin $s \geq 1/2$ there also exist three types of nonequivalent equations.

id: quant-ph/0206105
title: P, T, C properties of the Poincare invariant equations for massive particles
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 5 pages
journal: Lett.Nuovo Cim. 6 (1973) 133-137
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206105
abstract: We have shown quant-ph/0206104 (Lett. Nuovo Cimento, 1972, 4, 344) that for free particles and antiparticles with mass m>0 and arbitrary spin s>0, in the framework of the Poincare group P(1,3), there exist three types of nonequivalent equations. In the present paper we study the P, T, C properties of these equations.

id: quant-ph/0206106
title: Schemes of implementation in NMR of quantum processors and Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm by using virtual spin representation
authors: Alexander R. Kessel, Natalia M. Yakovleva
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062322 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206106
abstract: Schemes of experimental realization of the main two qubit processors for quantum computers and Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm are derived in virtual spin representation. The results are applicable for every four quantum states allowing the required properties for quantum processor implementation if for qubit encoding virtual spin representation is used. Four dimensional Hilbert space of nuclear spin 3/2 is considered in details for this aim

id: quant-ph/0206107
title: Distorted Waves with Exact Non-Local Exchange: a Canonical Function Approach
authors: K. Fakhreddine, R. J. Tweed, G. Nguyen Vien, C. Tannous, J. Langlois, O. Robaux
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. B (June 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206107
abstract: It is shown how the Canonical Function approach can be used to obtain accurate solutions for the distorted wave problem taking account of direct static and polarisation potentials and exact non-local exchange. Calculations are made for electrons in the field of atomic hydrogen and the phaseshifts are compared with those obtained using a modified form of the DWPO code of McDowell and collaborators: for small wavenumbers our approach avoids numerical instabilities otherwise present. Comparison is also made with phaseshifts calculated using local equivalent-exchange potentials and it is found that these are inaccurate at small wavenumbers. Extension of our method to the case of atoms having other than s-type outer shells is dicussed.

id: quant-ph/0206108
title: Damped Bloch oscillations of cold atoms in optical lattices
authors: A. R. Kolovsky, A. V. Ponomarev, H. J. Korsch
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002) 053405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206108
abstract: The paper studies Bloch oscillations of cold neutral atoms in the optical lattice. The effect of spontaneous emission on the dynamics of the system is analyzed both analytically and numerically. The spontaneous emission is shown to cause (i) the decay of Bloch oscillations with the decrement given by the rate of spontaneous emission and (ii) the diffusive spreading of the atoms with a diffusion coefficient depending on {\em both} the rate of spontaneous emission and the Bloch frequency.

id: quant-ph/0206109
title: On the possible types of equations for zero-mass particles
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, Anatoly G. Nikitin
comments: 4 pages
journal: Lett.Nuovo Cim. 7 (1973) 439-442
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206109
abstract: There are a number of papers dedicated to the description of free particles and antiparticles with zero mass and spin 1/2. A great many equations with different C, P, T properties have been proposed and the impression could be formed that there are many nonequivalent theories for zero-mass particles. The purpose or this paper is to show that it is not the case and to describe all nonequivalent equations.

id: quant-ph/0206110
title: Conditions for compatibility of quantum state assignments
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: REVTEX 4, 19 pages, 1 postscript figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062111 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206110
abstract: Suppose N parties describe the state of a quantum system by N possibly different density operators. These N state assignments represent the beliefs of the parties about the system. We examine conditions for determining whether the N state assignments are compatible. We distinguish two kinds of procedures for assessing compatibility, the first based on the compatibility of the prior beliefs on which the N state assignments are based and the second based on the compatibility of predictive measurement probabilities they define. The first procedure leads to a compatibility criterion proposed by Brun, Finkelstein, and Mermin [BFM, Phys. Rev. A 65, 032315 (2002)]. The second procedure leads to a hierarchy of measurement-based compatibility criteria which is fundamentally different from the corresponding classical situation. Quantum mechanically none of the measurement-based compatibility criteria is equivalent to the BFM criterion.

id: quant-ph/0206111
title: Classification of multipartite entangled states by multidimensional determinants
authors: Akimasa Miyake
comments: revtex4, 10 pages, 4 eps figures with psfrag; v2 title changed, 1 appendix added, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012108 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206111
abstract: We find that multidimensional determinants "hyperdeterminants", related to entanglement measures (the so-called concurrence or 3-tangle for the 2 or 3 qubits, respectively), are derived from a duality between entangled states and separable states. By means of the hyperdeterminant and its singularities, the single copy of multipartite pure entangled states is classified into an onion structure of every closed subset, similar to that by the local rank in the bipartite case. This reveals how inequivalent multipartite entangled classes are partially ordered under local actions. In particular, the generic entangled class of the maximal dimension, distinguished as the nonzero hyperdeterminant, does not include the maximally entangled states in Bell's inequalities in general (e.g., in the $n \geq 4$ qubits), contrary to the widely known bipartite or 3-qubit cases. It suggests that not only are they never locally interconvertible with the majority of multipartite entangled states, but they would have no grounds for the canonical n-partite entangled states. Our classification is also useful for the mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0206112
title: Point Interactions: PT-Hermiticity and Reality of the Spectrum
authors: S. Albeverio, S.M. Fei, P. Kurasov
comments: 17 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 59, 2002(227-242)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206112
abstract: General point interactions for the second derivative operator in one dimension are studied. In particular, ${\mathcal P \mathcal T}$-self-adjoint point interactions with the support at the origin and at points $\pm l$ are considered. The spectrum of such non-Hermitian operators is investigated and conditions when the spectrum is pure real are presented. The results are compared with those for standard self-adjoint point interactions.

id: quant-ph/0206113
title: Geometric coupling thresholds in a two-dimensional strip
authors: D. Borisov, P. Exner, R. Gadyl'shin
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics. 2002. V. 43. No. 12. P. 6265-6278.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206113
abstract: We consider the Laplacian in a strip $\mathbb{R}\times (0,d)$ with the boundary condition which is Dirichlet except at the segment of a length $2a$ of one of the boundaries where it is switched to Neumann. This operator is known to have a non-empty and simple discrete spectrum for any $a>0$. There is a sequence $0<a_1<a_2<...$ of critical values at which new eigenvalues emerge from the continuum when the Neumann window expands. We find the asymptotic behavior of these eigenvalues around the thresholds showing that the gap is in the leading order proportional to $(a-a_n)^2$ with an explicit coefficient expressed in terms of the corresponding threshold-energy resonance eigenfunction.

id: quant-ph/0206114
title: Comments on Bouda and Djama's "Quantum Newton's law"
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 6 pages LaTeX 2e. No figures. Bouda and Djama's "Quantum Newton's law" has been published in Phys. Lett. A 285 (2001) 27, quant-ph/0103071. Bouda and Djama are submitting to quant-ph a rebuttal, which also has been published in Phys. Lett. A 296 (2002) 312-316
journal: Phys. Lett. A (2002) 307-311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206114
abstract: Discussion of the differences between the trajectory representation of Floyd and that of Bouda and Djama [Phys. Lett. A 285 (2001) 27, quant-ph/0103071] renders insight: while Floyd's trajectories are related to group velocities, Bouda and Djama's are not. Bouda and Djama's reasons for these differences are also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0206115
title: Quantum theory of resonantly enhanced four-wave mixing: mean-field and exact numerical solutions
authors: Mattias T. Johnsson, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206115
abstract: We present a full quantum analysis of resonant forward four-wave mixing based on electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). In particular, we study the regime of efficient nonlinear conversion with low-intensity fields that has been predicted from a semiclassical analysis. We derive an effective nonlinear interaction Hamiltonian in the adiabatic limit. In contrast to conventional nonlinear optics this Hamiltonian does not have a power expansion in the fields and the conversion length increases with the input power. We analyze the stationary wave-mixing process in the forward scattering configuration using an exact numerical analysis for up to $10^3$ input photons and compare the results with a mean-field approach. Due to quantum effects, complete conversion from the two pump fields into the signal and idler modes is achieved only asymptotically for large coherent pump intensities or for pump fields in few-photon Fock states. The signal and idler fields are perfectly quantum correlated which has potential applications in quantum communication schemes. We also discuss the implementation of a single-photon phase gate for continuous quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0206116
title: Five Lectures On Dissipative Master Equations
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 58 pages, 10 figures; book chapter to appear in ``Coherent Evolution in Noisy Environments'', Lecture Notes in Physics, (Springer Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg-New York). Notes of lectures given in Dresden,23-27 April 2001
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 611, 2002, pp. 55-106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206116
abstract: 1 First Lecture: Basics 1.1 Physical Derivation of the Master Equation 1.2 Some Simple Implications 1.3 Steady State 1.4 Action to the Left 2 Second Lecture: Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of L 2.1 A Simple Case First 2.2 The General Case 3 Third Lecture: Completeness of the Damping Bases 3.1 Phase Space Functions 3.2 Completeness of the Eigenvectors of L 3.3 Positivity Conservation 3.4 Lindblad Form of Liouville Operators 4 Fourth Lecture: Quantum-Optical Applications 4.1 Periodically Driven Damped Oscillator 4.2 Conditional and Unconditional Evolution 4.3 Physical Signicance of Statistical Operators 5 Fifth Lecture: Statistics of Detected Atoms 5.1 Correlation Functions 5.2 Waiting Time Statistics 5.3 Counting Statistics

id: quant-ph/0206117
title: A simple quantum equation for Decoherence and dissipation (through interaction with the environment)
authors: Erasmo Recami, Ruy H.A. Farias
comments: plain LaTeX file (15 pages), plus 1 figure. Replaced with improvements
journal: Nuovo Cimento B147 (2009) 765-776
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206117
abstract: Within the density matrix formalism, it is shown that a simple way to get decoherence is through the introduction of a "quantum" of time (chronon): which implies replacing the differential Liouville--von Neumann equation with a finite-difference version of it. In this way, one is given the possibility of using a rather simple quantum equation to describe the decoherence effects due to dissipation. Namely, the mere introduction (not of a "time-lattice", but simply) of a "chronon" allows us to go on from differential to finite-difference equations; and in particular to write down the quantum-theoretical equations (Schroedinger equation, Liouville--von Neumann equation,...) in three different ways: "retarded", "symmetrical", and "advanced". One of such three formulations --the retarded one-- describes in an elementary way a system which is exchanging (and losing) energy with the environment; and in its density-matrix version, indeed, it can be easily shown that all non-diagonal terms go to zero very rapidly. [A much larger presentation of the theoretical ground on which this paper is based appeared in the e-print quant-ph/9706059, and in the preprint IC/98/74, ICTP; Trieste, 1998].

id: quant-ph/0206118
title: Shedding (red and green) light on "time related hidden parameters"
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206118
abstract: I explain in elementary terms why the critique of Hess and Philipp in Section 3.2 of quant-ph/0103028 fails to invalidate the nontechnical version of Bell's theorem I gave twenty years ago, involving two detectors with 3-pole switches and red and green lights.

id: quant-ph/0206119
title: On Casimir Forces for Media with Arbitrary Dielectric Properties
authors: W. L. Mochan, C. Villarreal, R. ESquivel-Sirvent
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206119
abstract: We derive an expression for the Casimir force between slabs with arbitrary dielectric properties characterized by their reflection coefficients. The formalism presented here is applicable to media with a local or a non-local dielectric response, an infinite or a finite width, inhomogeneous dissipative, etc. Our results reduce to the Lifshitz formula for the force between semi-infinite dielectric slabs by replacing the reflection coefficients by the Fresnel amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0206120
title: Boltzmann/Gibbs distribution for a two level system interacting with a thermal reservoir does not follow from Schrodinger equation
authors: Iuval Clejan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206120
abstract: In this work, we consider a 2-state quantum system interacting with a thermal reservoir. By computing the long time limit of the probability for the system to be in the ground state according to the Schrodinger/Von Neumann equation, we reach a contradiction with the prediction of equilibrium statistical mechanics. The most likely explanation is that the Schrodinger equation is incomplete as a description of such systems, because the other assumptions made herein have a wider range of experimental support.

id: quant-ph/0206121
title: Weak coin flipping with small bias
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Ashwin Nayak
comments: Results unchanged. Few comments and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206121
abstract: This note presents a quantum protocol that demonstrates that_weak_ coin flipping with bias approximately 0.239, less than 1/4, is possible. A bias of 1/4 was the smallest known, and followed from the strong coin flipping protocol of [Ambainis 2001]. Protocols with yet smaller bias, approximately 0.207, have independently been discovered [Ambainis 2001, Spekkens and Rudolph 2002]. We also present an alternative strong coin flipping protocol with bias 1/4 with analysis simpler than that of [Ambainis 2001].

id: quant-ph/0206122
title: On communication over an entanglement-assisted quantum channel
authors: Ashwin Nayak, Julia Salzman
comments: Appeared in the joint session of 34th ACM STOC, 2002, and 17th IEEE Complexity, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206122
abstract: Shared entanglement is a resource available to parties communicating over a quantum channel, much akin to public coins in classical communication protocols. Whereas shared randomness does not help in the transmission of information, or significantly reduce the classical complexity of computing functions (as compared to private-coin protocols), shared entanglement leads to startling phenomena such as ``quantum teleportation'' and ``superdense coding.'' The problem of characterising the power of prior entanglement has puzzled many researchers. In this paper, we revisit the problem of transmitting classical bits over an entanglement-assisted quantum channel. We derive a new, optimal bound on the number of quantum bits required for this task, for any given probability of error. All known lower bounds in the setting of bounded error entanglement-assisted communication are based on sophisticated information theoretic arguments. In contrast, our result is derived from first principles, using a simple linear algebraic technique.

id: quant-ph/0206123
title: On bit-commitment based quantum coin flipping
authors: Ashwin Nayak, Peter Shor
comments: The lower bound shown in this paper is superceded by a result of Kitaev (personal communication, 2001)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206123
abstract: In this paper, we focus on a special framework for quantum coin flipping protocols,_bit-commitment based protocols_, within which almost all known protocols fit. We show a lower bound of 1/16 for the bias in any such protocol. We also analyse a sequence of multi-round protocol that tries to overcome the drawbacks of the previously proposed protocols, in order to lower the bias. We show an intricate cheating strategy for this sequence, which leads to a bias of 1/4. This indicates that a bias of 1/4 might be optimal in such protocols, and also demonstrates that a cleverer proof technique may be required to show this optimality.

id: quant-ph/0206124
title: Adaptive quantum-limited estimates of phase
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 5 pages, to appear in the Australian Optical Society News. A very elementary treatment
journal: AOS News 16, 14-19 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206124
abstract: Quantum-limited estimation of an optical phase using adaptive (i.e. real-time feedback) techniques is reviewed. One case is explored in detail, as it can be understood using only elementary concepts such as photonic shot-noise and error analysis. Very recent experimental results are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0206125
title: Quantum Trajectories for Realistic Photodetection I: General Formalism
authors: P. Warszawski, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 15 pages. Part I of a two-part paper
journal: J. Opt. B. 5, 1-14 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206125
abstract: Quantum trajectories describe the stochastic evolution of an open quantum system conditioned on continuous monitoring of its output, such as by an ideal photodetector. In practice an experimenter has access to an output filtered through various electronic devices, rather than the microscopic states of the detector. This introduces several imperfections into the measurement process, of which only inefficiency has previously been incorporated into quantum trajectory theory. However, all electronic devices have finite bandwidths, and the consequent delay in conveying the output signal to the observer implies that the evolution of the conditional state of the quantum system must be non-Markovian. We present a general method of describing this evolution and apply it to avalanche photodiodes (APDs) and to photoreceivers. We include the effects of efficiency, dead time, bandwidth, electronic noise, and dark counts. The essential idea is to treat the quantum system and classical detector jointly, and to average over the latter to obtain the conditional quantum state. The significance of our theory is that quantum trajectories for realistic detection are necessary for sophisticated approaches to quantum feedback, and our approach could be applied in many areas of physics.

id: quant-ph/0206126
title: Quantum Trajectories for Realistic Photodetection II: Application and Analysis
authors: P. Warszawski, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 15 pages, plus 2 additional jpg figures. Part II of a two part paper
journal: J. Opt. B. 5, 15-28 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206126
abstract: In the preceding paper [Warszawski and Wiseman] we presented a general formalism for determining the state of a quantum system conditional on the output of a realistic detector, including effects such as a finite bandwidth and electronic noise. We applied this theory to two sorts of photodetectors: avalanche photodiodes and photoreceivers. In this paper we present simulations of these realistic quantum trajectories for a cavity QED scenario in order to ascertain how the conditioned state varies from that obtained with perfect detection. Large differences are found, and this is manifest in the average of the conditional purity. Simulation also allows us to comprehensively investigate how the quality of the the photoreceiver depends upon its physical parameters. In particular, we present evidence that in the limit of small electronic noise, the photoreceiver quality can be characterized by an {\em effective} bandwidth, which depends upon the level of electronic noise and the filter bandwidth. We establish this result as an appropriate limit for a simpler, analytically solvable, system. We expect this to be a general result in other applications of our theory.

id: quant-ph/0206127
title: On the average fidelity criterion for the non-classicality of the continuous variable quantum teleportation
authors: Wang Xiang-bin
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206127
abstract: We show that the existing argument on the non-classicality of the continuous variable quantum teleportation (CVQT) experiment by the average fidelity criterion is incomplete therefore so far it is still unclear whether the CVQT experiment(Furusawa et al, Science,282, 706(1998)) is really non-classical.

id: quant-ph/0206128
title: Anyons from non-solvable finite groups are sufficient for universal quantum computation
authors: Carlos Mochon
comments: 17 pages, REVTeX 4 (minor changes in v2, added motivation for leakage correction)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022315 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206128
abstract: We present a constructive proof that anyonic magnetic charges with fluxes in a non-solvable finite group can perform universal quantum computations. The gates are built out of the elementary operations of braiding, fusion, and vacuum pair creation, supplemented by a reservoir of ancillas of known flux. Procedures for building the ancilla reservoir and for correcting leakage are also described. Finally, a universal qudit gate-set, which is ideally suited for anyons, is presented. The gate-set consists of classical computation supplemented by measurements of the X operator.

id: quant-ph/0206129
title: Shape invariance, raising and lowering operators in hypergeometric type equations
authors: N. Cotfas
comments: LaTeX 2.09, 11 pages, IOP style (Bristol), All is included in only one .tex file, Please use for reply my e-address: ncotfas@yahoo.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206129
abstract: The Schr\" odinger equations which are exactly solvable in terms of associated special functions are directly related to some self-adjoint operators defined in the theory of hypergeometric type equations. The fundamental formulae occurring in a supersymmetric approach to these Hamiltonians are consequences of some formulae concerning the general theory of associated special functions. We use this connection in order to obtain a general theory of Schr\" odinger equations exactly solvable in terms of associated special functions, and to extend certain results known in the case of some particular potentials.

id: quant-ph/0206130
title: Statistical properties of eigenvalues for an operating quantum computer with static imperfections
authors: G.Benenti, G.Casati, S.Montangero, D.L.Shepelyansky
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 22, 285 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206130
abstract: We investigate the transition to quantum chaos, induced by static imperfections, for an operating quantum computer that simulates efficiently a dynamical quantum system, the sawtooth map. For the different dynamical regimes of the map, we discuss the quantum chaos border induced by static imperfections by analyzing the statistical properties of the quantum computer eigenvalues. For small imperfection strengths the level spacing statistics is close to the case of quasi-integrable systems while above the border it is described by the random matrix theory. We have found that the border drops exponentially with the number of qubits, both in the ergodic and quasi-integrable dynamical regimes of the map characterized by a complex phase space structure. On the contrary, the regime with integrable map dynamics remains more stable against static imperfections since in this case the border drops only algebraically with the number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0206131
title: Trapped-Ion Quantum Logic Utilizing Position-Dependent ac Stark Shifts
authors: Peter Staanum, Michael Drewsen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 040302(R) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206131
abstract: We present a scheme utilizing position-dependent ac Stark shifts for doing quantum logic with trapped ions. By a proper choice of direction, position and size, as well as power and frequency of a far-off-resonant Gaussian laser beam, specific ac Stark shifts can be assigned to the individual ions, making them distinguishable in frequency-space. In contrast to previous all-optical based quantum gates with trapped ions, the present scheme enables individual addressing of single ions and selective addressing of any pair of ions for two-ion quantum gates, without using tightly focused laser beams. Furthermore, the decoherence rate due to off-resonant excitations can be made negligible as compared with other sources of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0206132
title: Blackbody-radiation-assisted molecular laser cooling
authors: I. S. Vogelius, L. B. Madsen, M. Drewsen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 173003 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206132
abstract: The translational motion of molecular ions can be effectively cooled sympathetically to temperatures below 100 mK in ion traps through Coulomb interactions with laser-cooled atomic ions. The distribution of internal rovibrational states, however, gets in thermal equilibrium with the typically much higher temperature of the environment within tens of seconds. We consider a concept for rotational cooling of such internally hot, but translationally cold heteronuclear diatomic molecular ions. The scheme relies on a combination of optical pumping from a few specific rotational levels into a ``dark state'' with redistribution of rotational populations mediated by blackbody radiation.

id: quant-ph/0206133
title: Screening of qubit from zero-temperature reservoir
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206133
abstract: We suggest an application of dynamical Zeno effect to isolate a qubit in the quantum memory unit against decoherence caused by coupling with the reservoir having zero temperature. The method is based on using an auxiliary casing system that mediate the qubit-reservoir interaction and is simultaneously frequently erased to ground state. This screening procedure can be implemented in the cavity QED experiments to store the atomic and photonic qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0206134
title: Natural majorization of the Quantum Fourier Transformation in phase-estimation algorithms
authors: Roman Orus, Jose I. Latorre, Miguel A. Martin-Delgado
comments: LaTeX, 19 pages, 2 figures, minor corrections added
journal: Quantum Information Processing 1 (4): 283-302 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206134
abstract: We prove that majorization relations hold step by step in the Quantum Fourier Transformation (QFT) for phase-estimation algorithms considered in the canonical decomposition. Our result relies on the fact that states which are mixed by Hadamard operators at any stage of the computation only differ by a phase. This property is a consequence of the structure of the initial state and of the QFT, based on controlled-phase operators and a single action of a Hadamard gate per qubit. As a consequence, Hadamard gates order the probability distribution associated to the quantum state, whereas controlled-phase operators carry all the entanglement but are immaterial to majorization. We also prove that majorization in phase-estimation algorithms follows in a most natural way from unitary evolution, unlike its counterpart in Grover's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0206135
title: Entanglement of photons
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 5 pages ReVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206135
abstract: It is argued that the title of this paper represents a misconception. Contrary to widespread beliefs it is electromagnetic field modes that are ``systems'' and can be entangled, not photons. The amount of entanglement in a given state is shown to depend on redefinitions of the modes; we calculate the minimum and maximum over all such redefinitions for several examples.

id: quant-ph/0206136
title: Single photon quantum cryptography
authors: Alexios Beveratos, Rosa Brouri, Thierry Gacoin, Andre Villing, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Philippe Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 187901 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206136
abstract: We report the full implementation of a quantum cryptography protocol using a stream of single photon pulses generated by a stable and efficient source operating at room temperature. The single photon pulses are emitted on demand by a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center in a diamond nanocrystal. The quantum bit error rate is less that 4.6% and the secure bit rate is 9500 bits/s. The overall performances of our system reaches a domain where single photons have a measurable advantage over an equivalent system based on attenuated light pulses.

id: quant-ph/0206137
title: Photons uncertainty solves Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox
authors: Daniele Tommasini
comments: Published version, with updated reference
journal: Opt. Spectrosc. 94 (2003) 741-745
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206137
abstract: Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) pointed out that the quantum-mechanical description of "physical reality" implied an unphysical, instantaneous action between distant measurements. To avoid such an action at a distance, EPR concluded that Quantum Mechanics had to be incomplete. However, its extensions involving additional "hidden variables", allowing for the recovery of determinism and locality, have been disproved experimentally (Bell's theorem). Here, I present an opposite solution of the paradox based on the greater indeterminism of the modern Quantum Field Theory (QFT) description of Particle Physics, that prevents the preparation of any state having a definite number of particles. The resulting uncertainty in photons radiation has interesting consequences in Quantum Information Theory (e.g. cryptography and teleportation). Moreover, since it allows for less elements of EPR physical reality than the old non-relativistic Quantum Mechanics, QFT satisfies the EPR condition of completeness without the need of hidden variables. The residual physical reality does never violate locality, thus the unique objective proof of "quantum nonlocality" is removed in an interpretation-independent way. On the other hand, the supposed nonlocality of the EPR correlations turns out to be a problem of the interpretation of the theory. If we do not rely on hidden variables or new physics beyond QFT, the unique viable interpretation is a minimal statistical one, that preserves locality and Lorentz symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0206138
title: Secure Multi-party Quantum Computing
authors: Claude Crepeau, Daniel Gottesman, Adam Smith
comments: 10 pages. Appeared in the proceedings of STOC 2002. Web reference: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206138
abstract: Secure multi-party computing, also called "secure function evaluation", has been extensively studied in classical cryptography. We consider the extension of this task to computation with quantum inputs and circuits. Our protocols are information-theoretically secure, i.e. no assumptions are made on the computational power of the adversary. For the weaker task of verifiable quantum secret sharing, we give a protocol which tolerates any t < n/4 cheating parties (out of n). This is shown to be optimal. We use this new tool to show how to perform any multi-party quantum computation as long as the number of dishonest players is less than n/6.

id: quant-ph/0206139
title: Entangling Two Bose-Einstein Condensates by Stimulated Bragg Scattering
authors: B. Deb, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206139
abstract: We propose an experiment for entangling two spatially separated Bose-Einstein condensates by Bragg scattering of light. When Bragg scattering in two condensates is stimulated by a common probe, the resulting quasiparticles in the two condensates get entangled due to quantum communication between the condensates via probe beam. The entanglement is shown to be significant and occurs in both number and quadrature phase variables. We present two methods of detecting the generated entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0206140
title: Entanglement Properties of Some Fractional Quantum Hall Liquids
authors: Bei Zeng, Hui Zhai, Zhan Xu
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A66, 042324, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206140
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of some fractional quantum Hall liquids. We calculate the entanglement of the Laughlin wave function and the wave functions that are generated by the K-matrix using the modified entanglement measure of indistinguishable fermions that is first proposed by Pa\v{s}kauskas and You[1].

id: quant-ph/0206141
title: Symmetric qubits from cavity states
authors: Daniel E. Browne, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, minor typographical errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042307 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206141
abstract: Two-mode cavities can be prepared in quantum states which represent symmetric multi-qubit states. However, the qubits are impossible to address individually and as such cannot be independently measured or otherwise manipulated. We propose two related schemes to coherently transfer the qubits which the cavity state represents onto individual atoms, so that the qubits can then be processed individually. In particular, our scheme can be combined with the quantum cloning scheme of Simon and coworkers [C. Simon et al, PRL 84, 2993 (2000)] to allow the optimal clones which their scheme produces to be spatially separated and individually utilized.

id: quant-ph/0206142
title: Probabilistic generation of entanglement in optical cavities
authors: Anders S. Sorensen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4+epsilon pages, including 3 figures. v2: improved discussion of imperfections. v3: corrected typos in Eqs. (3) and (4) + minor changes. v4: improved discussion of ring cavity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206142
abstract: We propose to produce entanglement by measuring the transmission of an optical cavity. Conditioned on the detection of a reflected photon, pairs of atoms in the cavity are prepared in maximally entangled states. The success probability depends on the cavity parameters, but high quality entangled states may be produced with a high probability even for cavities of moderate quality.

id: quant-ph/0206143
title: Quantum Zeno effect in a multilevel molecule
authors: D. Bruno, P. Facchi, S. Longo, P. Minelli, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio
comments: 42 pages, 10 figures
journal: The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 113 (2009) 14875
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206143
abstract: We study the dynamics of the populations of a model molecule endowed with two sets of rotational levels of different parity, whose ground levels are energy degenerate and coupled by a constant interaction. The relaxation rate from one set of levels to the other one has an interesting dependence on the average collision frequency of the molecules in the gas. This is interpreted as a quantum Zeno effect due to the decoherence effects provoked by the molecular collisions.

id: quant-ph/0206144
title: General Qubit Errors Cannot Be Corrected
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 10 pages; with corrections and additional arguments
journal: Information Sciences, vol. 152, pp. 195-202, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206144
abstract: Error correction, in the standard meaning of the term, implies the ability to correct all small analog errors and some large errors. Examining assumptions at the basis of the recently proposed quantum error-correcting codes, it is pointed out that these codes can correct only a subset of errors, and are unable to correct small phase errors which can have disastrous consequences for a quantum computation. This shortcoming will restrict their usefulness in real applications.

id: quant-ph/0206145
title: Relating the Lorentzian and exponential: Fermi's approximation,the Fourier transform and causality
authors: A. Bohm, N. L. Harshman, H. Walther
comments: 23 pages, no figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002), 012107 1-11
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206145
abstract: The Fourier transform is often used to connect the Lorentzian energy distribution for resonance scattering to the exponential time dependence for decaying states. However, to apply the Fourier transform, one has to bend the rules of standard quantum mechanics; the Lorentzian energy distribution must be extended to the full real axis $-\infty<E<\infty$ instead of being bounded from below $0\leq E <\infty$ (``Fermi's approximation''). Then the Fourier transform of the extended Lorentzian becomes the exponential, but only for times $t\geq 0$, a time asymmetry which is in conflict with the unitary group time evolution of standard quantum mechanics. Extending the Fourier transform from distributions to generalized vectors, we are led to Gamow kets, which possess a Lorentzian energy distribution with $-\infty<E<\infty$ and have exponential time evolution for $t\geq t_0 =0$ only. This leads to probability predictions that do not violate causality.

id: quant-ph/0206146
title: Feynman's Decoherence
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: RevTex 15 pages including 6 figs, presented at the 9th Int'l Conference on Quantum Optics (Raubichi, Belarus, May 2002), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206146
abstract: Gell-Mann's quarks are coherent particles confined within a hadron at rest, but Feynman's partons are incoherent particles which constitute a hadron moving with a velocity close to that of light. It is widely believed that the quark model and the parton model are two different manifestations of the same covariant entity. If this is the case, the question arises whether the Lorentz boost destroys coherence. It is pointed out that this is not the case, and it is possible to resolve this puzzle without inventing new physics. It is shown that this decoherence is due to the measurement processes which are less than complete.

id: quant-ph/0206147
title: Are classical probabilities instances of quantum amplitudes?
authors: Italo Vecchi
comments: Latex, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206147
abstract: A conjecture about the quantum nature of classical probabilites is set forth and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0206148
title: Remarks on additivity of the Holevo channel capacity and of the entanglement of formation
authors: Keiji Matsumoto, Toshiyuki Shimono, Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages LaTeX, 1 eps figure. In v2 some obvious mistakes corrected and references updated. In v3 slightly more weight on group symmetry. v4 final version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 246(3):427-442, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206148
abstract: The purpose of these notes is to discuss the relation between the additivity questions regarding the quantities (Holevo) capacity of a quantum channel T and entanglement of formation of a given bipartite state. In particular, using the Stinespring dilation theorem, we give a formula for the channel capacity involving entanglement of formation. This can be used to show that additivity of the latter for some states can be inferred from the additivity of capacity for certain channels. We demonstrate this connection for a family of group--covariant channels, allowing us to calculate the entanglement cost for many states, including some where a strictly smaller upper bound on the distillable entanglement is known. Group symmetry is used for more sophisticated analysis, giving formulas valid for a class of channels. This is presented in a general framework, extending recent findings of Vidal, Dur and Cirac (e-print quant-ph/0112131). We speculate on a general relation of superadditivity of the entanglement of formation, which would imply both the general additivity of this function under tensor products and of the Holevo capacity (with or without linear cost constraints).

id: quant-ph/0206149
title: Reply to "Comments on Bouda and Djama's 'Quantum Newton's Law'"
authors: A. Bouda, T. Djama
comments: 8 pages, LateX, no figure. This letter is a reply to the comments published by E. R. Floyd in Phys. Lett. A296 (2002) 307-311, quant-ph/0206114
journal: Phys.Lett. A296 (2002) 312-316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206149
abstract: In this reply, we hope to bring clarifications about the reservations expressed by Floyd in his comments, give further explanations about the choice of the approach and show that our fundamental result can be reproduced by other ways. We also establish that Floyd's trajectories manifest some ambiguities related to the mathematical choice of the couple of solutions of Schr\"odinger's equation.

id: quant-ph/0206150
title: A balanced gated-mode photon detector for qubit discrimination in 1550 nm
authors: Akihisa Tomita, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Optics Letters on March 12
journal: Optics Letters, vol. 27, pp. 1827-1829, (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206150
abstract: A photon detector combining the two avalanche photon diodes (APD) has been demonstrated for qubit discrimination in 1550 nm. Spikes accompanied with the signals in gated-mode were canceled by balanced output from the two APDs. The spike cancellation enabled one to reduce the threshold in the discriminators, and thus the gate pulse voltage. The dark count probability and afterpulse probability were reduced to 7x10^-7 and 10^-4, respectively, without affecting the detection efficiency (11 %) at 178 K.

id: quant-ph/0206151
title: On Error Exponents in Quantum Hypothesis Testing
authors: Tomohiro Ogawa, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, submitted to IEEE trans. Inform. Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206151
abstract: In the simple quantum hypothesis testing problem, upper bounds on the error probabilities are shown based on a key operator inequality between a density operator and its pinching. Concerning the error exponents, the upper bounds lead to a noncommutative analogue of the Hoeffding bound, which is identical with the classical counter part if the hypotheses, composed of two density operators, are mutually commutative. The upper bounds also provide a simple proof of the direct part of the quantum Stein's lemma.

id: quant-ph/0206152
title: Quantum theory of heating of a single trapped ion
authors: F. Intravaia, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, A. Messina
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 308, 6 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206152
abstract: The heating of trapped ions due to the interaction with a {\it quantized environment} is studied {\it without performing the Born-Markov approximation}. A generalized master equation local in time is derived and a novel theoretical approach to solve it analytically is proposed. Our master equation is in the Lindblad form with time dependent coefficients, thus allowing the simulation of the dynamics by means of the Monte Carlo Wave Function (MCWF) method.

id: quant-ph/0206153
title: On the additional invariance of the Dirac and Maxwell equations
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 4 pages
journal: Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 1974, V. 11, N 10, P. 508-512
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206153
abstract: In this note we show that there exists a new set of operators {Q} (this set is different from the operators which satisfy the Lie algebra of the Poincare group P(1,3) with respect to which the Dirac and Maxwell equations are invariant. We shall give the detailed proof of our assertions only for the Dirac equation, since for the Maxwell equations all the assertions are proved analogously.

id: quant-ph/0206154
title: On a motion equation for two particles in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 4 pages
journal: Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 1974, V. 10, N 4, P. 163-167
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206154
abstract: The purpose of the present note is to propose, in the framework of relativistic quantum mechanics, a new Poincare-invariant equation for two particles with masses m_1, m_2 and spin s_1=s_2=1/2. It is a first-order linear differential equation for the eight-component wave function. With the help of this equation the description of the motion of two-particle systems is reduced to the description of one-particle systems in the (1+6)-dimensional Minkowski space which can be in two spin states (s=0 or s=1).

id: quant-ph/0206155
title: Interaction of bimodal fields with few-level atoms in cavities and traps
authors: A. Messina, S. Maniscalco, A. Napoli
comments: Topical Review. To appear on J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50, 1 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206155
abstract: The spectacular experimental results of the last few years in cavity quantum electrodynamics and trapped ions research has led to very high level laboratory performances. Such a stimulating situation essentially stems from two decisive advancements. The first is the invention of reliable protocols for the manipulation of single atoms. The second is the ability to produce desired bosonic environments on demand. These progresses have led to the possibility of controlling the form of the coupling between individual atoms and an arbitrary number of bosonic modes. As a consequence, fundamental matter-radiation interaction models like, for instance, the JC model and most of its numerous nonlinear multiphoton generalizations, have been realized or simulated in laboratory and their dynamical features have been tested more or less in detail. This topical paper reviews the state of the art of the theoretical investigations and of the experimental observations concerning the dynamical features of the coupling between single few-level atoms and two bosonic modes. In the course of the paper we show that such a configuration provides an excellent platform for investigating various quantum intermode correlation effects tested or testable in the cavity quantum electrodynamics and trapped ion experimental realms. In particular we discuss a mode-mode correlation effect appearing in the dynamics of a two-level atom quadratically coupled to two bosonic modes. This effect, named parity effect, consists in a high sensitivity to the evenness or oddness of the total number of bosonic excitations.

id: quant-ph/0206156
title: Poincare-invariant equations with a rising mass spectrum
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych
comments: 4 pages
journal: Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 1975, V. 14, N 12, P. 435-438
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206156
abstract: In this note we shall construct, in the framework of relativistic quantum mechanics, the Poincare-invariant motion equations with realistic mass spectra. These equations describe a system with mass spectra of the form $m^2=a^2+b^2 s(s+1)$, where a and b are arbitrary parameters. Such equations are obtained by a reduction of the motion equation for two particles to a one-particle equation which describes the particle in various mass and spin states. It we impose a certain condition on the wave function of the derived equation, such an equation describes the free motion of a fixed-mass particle with arbitrary (but fixed) spin s.

id: quant-ph/0206157
title: Once again on the `demythologizing' of the clock-in-the-box debate of Bohr and Einstein
authors: V. Hnizdo
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX. This slightly revised version has a more precise formulation of some points
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206157
abstract: The reply of de la Torre, Daleo and Garcia-Mata [Eur. J. Phys. 23 (2002) L15-L16] to a criticism of their `demythologizing' analysis of the clock-in-the-box debate between Einstein and Bohr is commented on.

id: quant-ph/0206158
title: Dynamical fidelity of a solid-state quantum computation
authors: G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, G. Celardo, F.M. Izrailev, D.I.Kamenev
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 66, 056206 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206158
abstract: In this paper we analyze the dynamics in a spin-model of quantum computer. Main attention is paid to the dynamical fidelity (associated with dynamical errors) of an algorithm that allows to create an entangled state for remote qubits. We show that in the regime of selective resonant excitations of qubits there is no any danger of quantum chaos. Moreover, in this regime a modified perturbation theory gives an adequate description of the dynamics of the system. Our approach allows to explicitly describe all peculiarities of the evolution of the system under time-dependent pulses corresponding to a quantum protocol. Specifically, we analyze, both analytically and numerically, how the fidelity decreases in dependence on the model parameters.

id: quant-ph/0206159
title: Hydrogenic Spin Quantum Computing in Silicon: A Digital Approach
authors: A. J. Skinner, M. E. Davenport, B. E. Kane
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; refereed and published version with improved introduction
journal: A. J. Skinner, M. E. Davenport, and B. E. Kane, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 087901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206159
abstract: We suggest an architecture for quantum computing with spin-pair encoded qubits in silicon. Electron-nuclear spin-pairs are controlled by a dc magnetic field and electrode-switched on and off hyperfine interaction. This digital processing is insensitive to tuning errors and easy to model. Electron shuttling between donors enables multi-qubit logic. These hydrogenic spin qubits are transferable to nuclear spin-pairs, which have long coherence times, and electron spin-pairs, which are ideally suited for measurement and initialization. The architecture is scalable to highly parallel operation.

id: quant-ph/0206160
title: Anomalous power law of quantum reversibility for classically regular dynamics
authors: Ph. Jacquod, I. Adagideli, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 61, 729-735 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206160
abstract: The Loschmidt Echo M(t) (defined as the squared overlap of wave packets evolving with two slightly different Hamiltonians) is a measure of quantum reversibility. We investigate its behavior for classically quasi-integrable systems. A dominant regime emerges where M(t) ~ t^{-alpha} with alpha=3d/2 depending solely on the dimension d of the system. This power law decay is faster than the result ~ t^{-d} for the decay of classical phase space densities.

id: quant-ph/0206161
title: Can quantum vacuum fluctuations be considered real?
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206161
abstract: The main argument against the assumption that quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field are real is that they do not activate photon detectors. In order to met this objection I study several models of photon counter compatible with the reality of the fluctuations. The models predict a nonlinear dependence of the counting rate with the light intensity and the existence of a nonthermal dark rate, results which might explain the difficulty for performing loophole-free optical tests of Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0206162
title: Photon counting with loop detector
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 3 pages, REVTeX
journal: Opt. Lett. 28, 52 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206162
abstract: We propose a design for a photon counting detector capable of resolving multiphoton events. The basic element of the setup is a fiber loop, which traps the input field with the help of a fast electrooptic switch. A single weakly coupled avalanche photodiode is used to detect small portions of the signal field extracted from the loop. We analyze the response of the loop detector to an arbitrary input field, and discuss both the reconstruction of the photon number distribution of an unknown field from the count statistics measured in the setup, and the application of the detector in conditional state preparation.

id: quant-ph/0206163
title: Quantum Teleportation of Superposition State for Squeezed States
authors: Xin-Hua Cai, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 4 pages no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206163
abstract: This paper proposes a scheme for teleporting an arbitrary coherent superposition state of two equal-amplitude and opposite-phase squeezed vacuum states (SVS) via a symmetric 50/50 beam splitter and photodetectors. It is shown that the quantum teleportation scheme has the successful probability 1/4. Maximally entangled SVS's are used as quantum channel for realizing the teleportation scheme. It is shown that if an initial quantum channel is in a pure but not maximally entangled SVS, the quantum channel may be distilled to a maximally entangled SVS through entanglement concentration.

id: quant-ph/0206164
title: Time Contortions in Modern Physics
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 8 pg. RevTeX + 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206164
abstract: As a basis for epistemological study of ``time,'' we analyze three suspect phenomena introduced by modern physics: non-locality, asymmetric aging and advanced interaction. It is shown that all three arise in connection with what has to be taken as arbitrary ideosyncrasies in formulation. It is shown that minor changes result in internally consistent variations of both Quantum Mechanics and Special Relativity devoid of these phenomena. The reinterpretation of some experiments though to confirm the existence of non-locality and asymmetric aging is briefly considered and a possible test is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0206165
title: Functional Bell inequalities can serve as a stronger entanglement witness
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Marek Zukowski
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062318 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206165
abstract: We consider a Bell inequality for a continuous range of settings of the apparatus at each site. This "functional" Bell inequality gives a better range of violation for generalized GHZ states. Also a family of N-qubit bound entangled states violate this inequality for N>5.

id: quant-ph/0206166
title: Experimental preparation of Werner state via spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Yun-Feng Huang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures and 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206166
abstract: We present an experiment of preparing Werner state via spontaneous parametric down-conversion and controlled decoherence of photons in this paper. In this experiment two independent BBO (beta-barium borate) crystals are used to produce down-conversion light beams, which are mixed to prepare Werner state.

id: quant-ph/0206167
title: Optimal Guessing Strategies in a Quantum Card Game
authors: Chih-Lung Chou, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206167
abstract: Three different quantum cards which are non-orthogonal quantum bits are sent to two different players, Alice and Bob, randomly. Alice receives one of the three cards, and Bob receives the remaining two cards. We find that Bob could know better than Alice does on guessing Alice's card, no matter what Bob chooses to measure his two cards collectively or separately. We also find that Bob's best strategy for guessing Alice's card is to measure his two cards collectively.

id: quant-ph/0206168
title: A dilemma in representing observables in quantum mechanics
authors: D. A. Dubin, M. A. Hennings, P. Lahti, J.-P. Pellonpaa
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) 9113-9121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206168
abstract: There are self-adjoint operators which determine both spectral and semispectral measures. These measures have very different commutativity and covariance properties. This fact poses a serious question on the physical meaning of such a self-adjoint operator and its associated operator measures.

id: quant-ph/0206169
title: How to mix a density matrix
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Asa Ericsson
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012107 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206169
abstract: A given density matrix may be represented in many ways as a mixture of pure states. We show how any density matrix may be realized as a uniform ensemble. It has been conjectured that one may realize all probability distributions that are majorized by the vector of eigenvalues of the density matrix. We show that if the states in the ensemble are assumed to be distinct then it is not true, but a marginally weaker statement may still be true.

id: quant-ph/0206170
title: Quantum Cryptography Based On Bell Inequalities for Three-Dimensional System
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Kelken Chang, Daniel Kuan Li Oi, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, REVTEX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206170
abstract: We present a crytographic protocol based upon entangled qutrit pairs. We analyse the scheme under a symmetric incoherent attack and plot the region for which the protocol is secure and compare this with the region of violations of certain Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0206171
title: The entangling power of passive optical elements
authors: M.M. Wolf, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 047904 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206171
abstract: We investigate the entangling capability of passive optical elements, both qualitatively and quantitatively. We present a general necessary and sufficient condition for the possibility of creating distillable entanglement in an arbitrary multi-mode Gaussian state with the help of passive optical elements, thereby establishing a general connection between squeezing and the entanglement that is attainable by non-squeezing operations. Special attention is devoted to general two-mode Gaussian states, for which we provide the optimal entangling procedure, present an explicit formula for the attainable degree of entanglement measured in terms of the logarithmic negativity, and discuss several practically important special cases.

id: quant-ph/0206172
title: Inequalities that test locality in quantum mechanics
authors: Dennis Dieks
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; the argument has been made clearer in the revised version; 1 reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206172
abstract: Quantum theory violates Bell's inequality, but not to the maximum extent that is logically possible. We derive inequalities (generalizations of Cirel'son's inequality) that quantify the upper bound of the violation, both for the standard formalism and the formalism of generalized observables (POVMs). These inequalities are quantum analogues of Bell inequalities, and they can be used to test the quantum version of locality. We discuss the nature of this kind of locality. We also go into the relation of our results to an argument by Popescu and Rohrlich (Found. Phys. 24, 379 (1994)) that there is no general connection between the existence of Cirel'son's bound and locality.

id: quant-ph/0206173
title: Fidelity of Quantum Teleportation through Noisy Channels
authors: Sangchul Oh, Soonchil Lee, Hai-woong Lee
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022316 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206173
abstract: We investigate quantum teleportation through noisy quantum channels by solving analytically and numerically a master equation in the Lindblad form. We calculate the fidelity as a function of decoherence rates and angles of a state to be teleported. It is found that the average fidelity and the range of states to be accurately teleported depend on types of noise acting on quantum channels. If the quantum channels is subject to isotropic noise, the average fidelity decays to 1/2, which is smaller than the best possible value 2/3 obtained only by the classical communication. On the other hand, if the noisy quantum channel is modeled by a single Lindblad operator, the average fidelity is always greater than 2/3.

id: quant-ph/0206174
title: A Family of Quantum Stabilizer Codes Based on the Weyl Commutation Relations over a Finite Field
authors: V. Arvind, K.R. Parthasarathy
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206174
abstract: Using the Weyl commutation relations over a finite field we introduce a family of error-correcting quantum stabilizer codes based on a class of symmetric matrices over the finite field satisfying certain natural conditions. When the field is GF(2) the existence of a rich class of such symmetric matrices is demonstrated by a simple probabilistic argument depending on the Chernoff bound for i.i.d symmetric Bernoulli trials. If, in addition, these symmetric matrices are assumed to be circulant it is possible to obtain concrete examples by a computer program. The quantum codes thus obtained admit elegant encoding circuits.

id: quant-ph/0206175
title: Einstein was right: Proof of absence of spooky state reduction in quantum mechanics
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: 6 pages, PDF, Proof outlined in Found. Phys. Lett. vol. 15, 1-25,(2002). Conference presentations at Winter Institute on Found. Q.M, Calcutta(Jan. 2002), Quantum Information, Oviedo (July 2002), TH-2002, Paris (July 2002)
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 15 (2002) 1-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206175
abstract: The present standard interpretation of quantum mechanics invokes nonlocality and state reduction at space-like separated points during measurements on entangled systems. While there is no understanding of the physical mechanism of such nonlocal state reduction, the experimental verifications of quantum correlations different from that predicted by local realistic theories have polarized the physicists' opinion in favour of nonlocality. I show conclusively that there is no such spooky state reduction, vindicating the strong views against nonlocality held by Einstein and Popper. Experimental support to this proof is also discussed. The Bell's inequalities arise due to ignoring the phase information in the correlation function and not due to nonlocality. This result goes against the current belief of quantum nonlocality held by the majority of physicists; yet the proof is transparent and rigorous, and therefore demands a change in the interpretation of quantum mechanics and quantum measurements. The hypothesis of wave function collapse is inconsistent with experimental observations on entangled correlated systems.

id: quant-ph/0206176
title: Quantum mechanics of a free particle on a pointed plane revisited
authors: K. Kowalski, K. Podlaski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 66 (2002) 032118-1--032118-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206176
abstract: The detailed study of a quantum free particle on a pointed plane is performed. It is shown that there is no problem with a mysterious ``quantum anticentrifugal force" acting on a free particle on a plane discussed in a very recent paper: M. A. Cirone et al, Phys. Rev. A 65, 022101 (2002), but we deal with a purely topological efect related to distinguishing a point on a plane. The new results are introduced concerning self-adjoint extensions of operators describing the free particle on a pointed plane as well as the role played by discrete symmetries in the analysis of such extensions.

id: quant-ph/0206177
title: Dynamics of entanglement between two trapped atoms
authors: Holger Mack, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042113 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206177
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of entanglement between two continuous variable quantum systems. The model system consists of two atoms in a harmonic trap which are interacting by a simplified s-wave scattering. We show, that the dynamically created entanglement changes in a steplike manner. Moreover, we introduce local operators which allow us to violate a Bell-CHSH inequality adapted to the continuous variable case. The correlations show nonclassical behavior and almost reach the maximal quantum mechanical value. This is interesting since the states prepared by this interaction are very different from any EPR-like state.

id: quant-ph/0206178
title: Can the game be quantum?
authors: Andrey Grib, Georges Parfionov
comments: LATEX, 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206178
abstract: The game in which acts of participants don't have an adequate description in terms of Boolean logic and classical theory of probabilities is considered. The model of the game interaction is constructed on the basis of a non-distributive orthocomplemented lattice. Mixed strategies of the participants are calculated by the use of probability amplitudes according to the rules of quantum mechanics. A scheme of quantization of the payoff function is proposed and an algorithm for the search of Nash equilibrium is given. It is shown that differently from the classical case in the quantum situation a discrete set of equilibrium is possible.

id: quant-ph/0206179
title: Zeroth WKB Approximation in Quantum Mechanics
authors: M.N. Sergeenko
comments: Latex, 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206179
abstract: Solution of the Schr\"odinger's equation in the zero order WKB approximation is analyzed. We observe and investigate several remarkable features of the WKB$_0$ method. Solution in the whole region is built with the help of simple connection formulas we derive from basic requirements of continuity and finiteness for the wave function in quantum mechanics. We show that, for conservative quantum systems, not only total energy, but also momentum is the constant of motion. We derive the quantization conditions for two and more turning point problems. Exact energy eigenvalues for solvable and some ``insoluble'' potentials are obtained. The eigenfunctions have the form of a standing wave, $A_n\cos(k_nx+\delta_n)$, and are the asymptote of the exact solution.

id: quant-ph/0206180
title: Relativistic coherent states and charge structure of the coordinate and momentum operators
authors: B.I. Lev, A.A. Semenov, C.V. Usenko, J.R. Klauder
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 66, 022115 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206180
abstract: We consider relativistic coherent states for a spin-0 charged particle that satisfy the next additional requirements: (i) the expected values of the standard coordinate and momentum operators are uniquely related to the real and imaginary parts of the coherent state parameter; (ii) these states contain only one charge component. Three cases are considered: free particle, relativistic rotator, and particle in a constant homogeneous magnetic field. For the rotational motion of the two latter cases, such a description leads to the appearance of the so-called nonlinear coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0206181
title: Bounds and enhancements for the Hartman effect
authors: J. G. Muga, I. L. Egusquiza, J. A. Damborenea, F. Delgado
comments: 8 pages, 3 inlined eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206181
abstract: The time of passage of the transmitted wave packet in a tunneling collision of a quantum particle with a square potential barrier becomes independent of the barrier width in a range of barrier thickness. This is the Hartman effect, which has been frequently associated with ``superluminality''. A fundamental limitation on the effect is set by non-relativistic ``causality conditions''. We demonstrate first that the causality conditions impose more restrictive bounds on the negative time delays (time advancements) when no bound states are present. These restrictive bounds are in agreement with a naive, and generally false, causality argument based on the positivity of the ``extrapolated phase time'', one of the quantities proposed to characterize the duration of the barrier's traversal. Nevertheless, square wells may in fact lead to much larger advancements than square barriers. We point out that close to thresholds of new bound states the time advancement increases considerably, while, at the same time, the transmission probability is large, which facilitates the possible observation of the enhanced time advancement.

id: quant-ph/0206182
title: Exact isolated solutions for the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: C. Emary, R. F. Bishop
comments: 15 Pages, 1 Figure, Latex, minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. {\bf 35}, 8231 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206182
abstract: The two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian is a simple model describing the interaction of light with matter, with the interaction being mediated by the exchange of two photons. Although this model is exactly soluble in the rotating-wave approximation, we work with the full Hamiltonian, maintaining the non-integrability of the model. We demonstrate that, despite this non-integrability, there exist isolated, exact solutions for this model analogous to the so-called Juddian solutions found for the single-photon Rabi Hamiltonian. In so doing we use a Bogoliubov transformation of the field mode, as described by the present authors in an earlier publication.

id: quant-ph/0206183
title: A general scheme for ensemble purification
authors: Angelo Bassi, GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX. Revised version: typographical errors corrected
journal: Phys.Lett. A309 (2003) 24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206183
abstract: We exhibit a general procedure to purify any given ensemble by identifying an appropriate interaction between the physical system S of the ensemble and the reference system K. We show that the interaction can be chosen in such a way to lead to a spatial separation of the pair S-K. As a consequence, one can use it to prepare at a distance different equivalent ensembles. The argument associates a physically precise procedure to the purely formal and fictitious process usually considered in the literature. We conclude with an illuminating example taken from quantum computational theory.

id: quant-ph/0206184
title: Casimir effect for the sphere revisited
authors: C.R. Hagen
comments: 4 pages, no figures, to be published in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A300 (2002) 591-594
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206184
abstract: In a recent work Brevik \emph{et al.} have offered formal proofs of two results which figure prominently in calculations of the Casimir pressure on a sphere. It is shown by means of simple counterexamples that each of those proofs is necessarily incorrect.

id: quant-ph/0206185
title: An Information-Spectrum Approach to Classical and Quantum Hypothesis Testing for Simple Hypotheses
authors: Hiroshi Nagaoka, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 1 figure
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol.53, 534-549 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206185
abstract: The information-spectrum analysis made by Han for classical hypothesis testing for simple hypotheses is extended to a unifying framework including both classical and quantum hypothesis testing as well as fixed-length source coding, whereby general formulas for several quantities concerning the asymptotic optimality of tests/codes are established in terms of classical and quantum information spectrum. Generality of theorems and simplicity of proofs are fully pursued, and as byproducts some improvements on the original classical results are also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0206186
title: General formulas for capacity of classical-quantum channels
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Hiroshi Nagaoka
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol.49, No.7, pp.1753-1768 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206186
abstract: The capacity of a classical-quantum channel (or in other words the classical capacity of a quantum channel) is considered in the most general setting, where no structural assumptions such as the stationary memoryless property are made on a channel. A capacity formula as well as a characterization of the strong converse property is given just in parallel with the corresponding classical results of Verd\'{u}-Han which are based on the so-called information-spectrum method. The general results are applied to the stationary memoryless case with or without cost constraint on inputs, whereby a deep relation between the channel coding theory and the hypothesis testing for two quantum states is elucidated. no structural assumptions such as the stationary memoryless property are made on a channel. A capacity formula as well as a characterization of the strong converse property is given just in parallel with the corresponding classical results of Verdu-Han which are based on the so-called information-spectrum method. The general results are applied to the stationary memoryless case with or without cost constraint on inputs, whereby a deep relation between the channel coding theory and the hypothesis testing for two quantum states is elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0206187
title: General formulas for fixed-length quantum entanglement concentration
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: This paper revised because the previouse version has some mistakes
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 52, No. 5, 1904-1921 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206187
abstract: General formulas of entanglement concentration are derived by using an information-spectrum approach for the i.i.d. sequences and the general sequences of partially entangled pure states. That is, we derive general relations between the performance of the entanglement concentration and the eigenvalues of the partially traced state. The achievable rates with constant constraints and those with exponential constraints can be calculated from these formulas.

id: quant-ph/0206188
title: New q-deformed coherent states with an explicitly known resolution of unity
authors: C. Quesne
comments: LaTeX, 26 pages, contains 9 eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 9213-9226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206188
abstract: We construct a new family of q-deformed coherent states $|z>_q$, where $0 < q < 1$. These states are normalizable on the whole complex plane and continuous in their label $z$. They allow the resolution of unity in the form of an ordinary integral with a positive weight function obtained through the analytic solution of the associated Stieltjes power-moment problem and expressed in terms of one of the two Jacksons's $q$-exponentials. They also permit exact evaluation of matrix elements of physically-relevant operators. We use this to show that the photon number statistics for the states is sub-Poissonian and that they exhibit quadrature squeezing as well as an enhanced signal-to-quantum noise ratio over the conventional coherent state value. Finally, we establish that they are the eigenstates of some deformed boson annihilation operator and study some of their characteristics in deformed quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0206189
title: Decoherence in resonantly driven bistable systems
authors: Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, vch-book.cls
journal: Quantum Information Processing (Wiley-VCH, Berlin, 2002) Chap. 12, pp. 146-157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206189
abstract: We study dissipative tunneling in a double well potential that is driven close to a resonance between the lowest tunnel doublet and a singlet. While the coherent dynamics can be described well within a three-level approximation, dissipative transitions to levels outside the singlet and the doublet may play a crucial role. Moreover, such transitions can enhance the entropy production significantly.

id: quant-ph/0206190
title: An experiment that proves the absence of nonlocality in quantum mechanics
authors: C . S. Unnikrishnan
comments: 3 pages, PDF, Sequel to quant-ph/0206175, Conference presentations at 'Quantum Information', Oviedo (July 2002)& 'TH-2002', Paris (July 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206190
abstract: I have been arguing that quantum nonlocality, deeply entrenched in the present formalism of quantum mechanics and widely believed as a reality by physicists, is in fact absent. Spooky nonlocal state reduction is the most, and perhaps the only irrational feature of present day physics. There are experimental results that reject nonlocal state reduction at a distance. Also, there are arguments that show that signal locality itself can be violated if there is true nonlocal collapse of the wavefunction. The Bell's inequalities, the violation of which polarized physicists in favour of nonlocality, arise not due to nonlocality, but due to ignoring prior information on correlations encoded in the phase of local probability amplitudes. Here I discuss an experiment involving particles entangled in energy and time variables that shows that there is no nonlocal state reduction during measurements on entangled particles. Quantum mechanics is inconsistent if it includes the concept of wavefunction collapse as a physical process for entangled multi-particle systems.

id: quant-ph/0206191
title: All Optical Implementation of Multi-Spin Entanglement in a Semiconductor Quantum Well
authors: J. Bao, A. V. Bragas, J. K. Furdyna, R. Merlin
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206191
abstract: We use ultrafast optical pulses and coherent techniques to create spin entangled states of non-interacting electrons bound to donors (at least three) and at least two Mn2+ ions in a CdTe quantum well. Our method, relying on the exchange interaction between localized excitons and paramagnetic impurities, can in principle be applied to entangle a large number of spins.

id: quant-ph/0206192
title: Local vs. Joint Measurements for the Entanglement of Assistance
authors: T. Laustsen, F. Verstraete, S. J. van Enk
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, Minor changes, added reference to paper by O. Cohen
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 3, 64 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206192
abstract: We consider a variant of the entanglement of assistance, as independently introduced by D.P. DiVincenzo {\em et al.} ({\tt quant-ph/9803033}) and O. Cohen (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 80}, 2493 (1998)). Instead of considering three-party states in which one of the parties, the assistant, performs a measurement such that the remaining two parties are left with on average as much entanglement as possible, we consider four-party states where two parties play the role of assistants. We answer several questions that arise naturally in this scenario, such as (i) how much more entanglement can be produced when the assistants are allowed to perform joint measurements, (ii) for what type of states are local measurements sufficient, (iii) is it necessary for the second assistant to know the measurement outcome of the first, and (iv) are projective measurements sufficient or are more general POVMs needed?

id: quant-ph/0206193
title: All Moments of the Uniform Ensemble of Quantum Density Matrices
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 17 pages (files: 1 .tex, 3 .sty)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206193
abstract: Given a uniform ensemble of quantum density matrices $\rho$, it is useful to calculate the mean value over this ensemble of a product of entries of $\rho$. We show how to calculate such moments in this paper. The answer involves well known results from Group Representation Theory and Random Matrix Theory. This quantum problem has a well known classical counterpart: given a uniform ensemble of probability distributions $P=(P_1, P_2, ..., P_N)$ where the $P_j$ are non-negative reals that sum to one, calculate the mean value over this probability simplex of products of $P$ components. The answer to the classical problem follows from an integral formula due to Dirichlet.

id: quant-ph/0206194
title: Does classical mechanics always adequately describe "classical physical reality"
authors: V.E. Shemi-zadeh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206194
abstract: The article is dedicated to discussion of irreversibility and foundation of statistical mechanics "from the first principles". Taking into account infinitesimal and, as it seems, neglectful for classical mechanics fluctuations of the physical vacuum, makes a deterministic motion of unstable dynamic systems is broken ("spontaneous determinism breaking", "spontaneous stochastization"). Vacuum fluctuations play part of the trigger, starting the powerful mechanism of exponent instability. The motion of the dynamic systems becomes irreversible and stochastic. Classical mechanics turns out to be applicable only for a small class of stable dynamic systems with zero Kolmogorov-Sinay entropy $h=0$. For alternative "Stochastic mechanics" there are corresponding equations of motion and Master Equation, describing irreversible evolution of the initial distribution function to equilibrium state.

id: quant-ph/0206195
title: To Physical Foundation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: V.E. Shemi-zadeh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206195
abstract: On the base of years of experience of working on the problem of the physical foundation of quantum mechanics the author offers principles of solving it. Under certain pressure of mathematical formalism there has raised a hypothesis of complexity of space and time by Minkovsky, being significant mainly for quantum objects. In this eight-dimensional space and time with six space and two time dimensions all the problems and peculiarities of quantum mechanical formalism disappear, the reasons of their appearance become clear, and there comes a clear and physically transparent picture of the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0206196
title: A first experimental test of de Broglie-Bohm theory against standard quantum mechanics
authors: G. Brida, E. Cagliero, G. Falzetta, M.Genovese, M. Gramegna, C. Novero
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.B.At.Mol.Opt.Phys. 35 (2002) 4751
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206196
abstract: De Broglie - Bohm (dBB) theory is a deterministic theory, built for reproducing almost all Quantum Mechanics (QM) predictions, where position plays the role of a hidden variable. It was recently shown that different coincidence patterns are predicted by QM and dBB when a double slit experiment is realised under specific conditions and, therefore, an experiment can test the two theories. In this letter we present the first realisation of such a double slit experiment by using correlated photons produced in type I Parametric Down Conversion. Our results confirm QM contradicting dBB predictions.

id: quant-ph/0206197
title: Entanglement of a two-mode squeezed state in a Gaussian environment
authors: D. Wilson, J. Lee, M.S. Kim
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, section IV has been modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206197
abstract: Some non-classical properties such as squeezing, sub-Poissonian photon statistics or oscillations in photon-number distributions may survive longer in a phase-sensitive environment than in a phase-insensitive environment. We examine if entanglement, which is an inter-mode non-classical feature, can also survive longer in a phase-sensitive environment. Differently from the single-mode case, we find that making the environment phase-sensitive does not aid in prolonging entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0206198
title: Suitability versus fidelity for rating single-photon guns
authors: George M. Hockney, Pieter Kok, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures Revised per referee suggestions
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 67 (2003) 032306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206198
abstract: The creation of specified quantum states is important for most, if not all, applications in quantum computation and communication. The quality of the state preparation is therefore an essential ingredient in any assessment of a quantum-state gun. We show that the fidelity, under the standard definitions is not sufficient to assess quantum sources, and we propose a new measure of suitability that necessarily depends on the application for the source. We consider the performance of single-photon guns in the context of quantum key distribution (QKD) and linear optical quantum computation. Single-photon sources for QKD need radically different properties than sources for quantum computing. Furthermore, the suitability for single-photon guns is discussed explicitly in terms of experimentally accessible criteria.

id: quant-ph/0206199
title: Distant entanglement with nearest neighbor interactions
authors: Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206199
abstract: Preparing many body entangled states efficiently using available interactions is a challenging task. One solution may be to couple a system collectively with a probe that leaves residual entanglement in the system. We investigate the entanglement produced between two possibly distant qubits 1 and 2 that interact locally with a third qubit 3 under unitary evolution generated by pairwise Hamiltonians. For the case where the Hamiltonians commute, relevant to certain quantum nondemolition measurements, the entanglement between qubits 1 and 2 is calculated explicitly for several classes of initial states and compared with the case of noncommuting interaction Hamiltonians. This analysis can be helpful to identify preferable physical system interactions for entangled state synthesis.

id: quant-ph/0206200
title: Quantitative conditional quantum erasure in two-atom resonance fluorescence
authors: Matthias Jakob, Janos Bergou
comments: Revtex4, 12pages, 4 eps figures, replaced with published version, changes in Sec. 3, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 062107 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0206200
abstract: We present a conditional quantum eraser which erases the a priori knowledge or the predictability of the path a photon takes in a Young-type double-slit experiment with two fluorescent four-level atoms. This erasure violates a recently derived erasure relation which must be satisfied for a conventional, unconditional quantum eraser that aims to find an optimal sorting of the system into subensembles with particularly large fringe visibilities. The conditional quantum eraser employs an interaction-free, partial which-way measurement which not only sorts the system into optimal subsystems with large visibility but also selects the appropriate subsystem with the maximum possible visibility. We explain how the erasure relation can be violated under these circumstances.

id: cond-mat/0206039
title: The Edge of Quantum Chaos
authors: Y. S. Weinstein, S. Lloyd, C. Tsallis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, revised version in press PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 214101 (2002)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206039
abstract: We identify a border between regular and chaotic quantum dynamics. The border is characterized by a power law decrease in the overlap between a state evolved under chaotic dynamics and the same state evolved under a slightly perturbed dynamics. For example, the overlap decay for the quantum kicked top is well fitted with $[1+(q-1) (t/\tau)^2]^{1/(1-q)}$ (with the nonextensive entropic index $q$ and $\tau$ depending on perturbation strength) in the region preceding the emergence of quantum interference effects. This region corresponds to the edge of chaos for the classical map from which the quantum chaotic dynamics is derived.

id: cond-mat/0206110
title: Propagating and evanescent waves in absorbing media
authors: S.Anantha Ramakrishna, A.D. Armour
comments: Brief Review, to appear in the American Journal of Physics, this http URL
journal: Am. J. Phys. 71, 562 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206110
abstract: We compare the behavior of propagating and evanescent light waves in absorbing media with that of electrons in the presence of inelastic scattering. The imaginary part of the dielectric constant results primarily in an exponential decay of a propagating wave, but a phase shift for an evanescent wave. We then describe how the scattering of quantum particles out of a particular coherent channel can be modeled by introducing an imaginary part to the potential in analogy with the optical case. The imaginary part of the potential causes additional scattering which can dominate and actually prevent absorption of the wave for large enough values of the imaginary part. We also discuss the problem of maximizing the absorption of a wave and point out that the existence of a bound state greatly aids absorption. We illustrate this point by considering the absorption of light at the surface of a metal.

id: cond-mat/0206124
title: Fractal entropy of a chain of nonlinear oscillators
authors: A. Scardicchio, P. Facchi, S. Pascazio
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68 (2003) 026211
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206124
abstract: We study the time evolution of a chain of nonlinear oscillators. We focus on the fractal features of the spectral entropy and analyze its characteristic intermediate timescales as a function of the nonlinear coupling. A Brownian motion is recognized, with an analytic power-law dependence of its diffusion coefficient on the coupling.

id: cond-mat/0206176
title: Is the concept of the non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian relevant in the case of potential scattering?
authors: D. V. Savin, V. V. Sokolov, H.-J. Sommers
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Phys.Rev. E67 (2003) 026215
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206176
abstract: We examine the notion and properties of the non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian of an unstable system using as an example potential resonance scattering with a fixed angular momentum. We present a consistent self-adjoint formulation of the problem of scattering on a finite-range potential, which is based on separation of the configuration space on two, internal and external, segments. The scattering amplitude is expressed in terms of the resolvent of a non-Hermitian operator H. The explicit form of this operator depends both on the radius of separation and the boundary conditions at this place which can be chosen in many different ways. We discuss this freedom and show explicitly that the physical scattering amplitude is, nevertheless, unique though not all choices are equally adequate from the physical point of view. The energy-dependent operator H should not be confused with the non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian H_{eff} exploited usually to describe interference of overlapping resonances. We apply the developed formalism to a chain of L delta-barriers whose solution is also found independently in a closed form. For a fixed band of L overlapping resonances, the smooth energy dependence of H can be ignored so that complex eigenvalues of the LxL submatrix H_{eff} define the energies and widths of the resonances.We construct H_{eff} for the two commonly considered types of the boundary conditions (Neumann and Dirichlet) for the internal motion. Formation in the outer well of a short-lived doorway state is explicitly demonstrated together with the appearance of L-1 long-lived states trapped in the inner part of the chain.

id: cond-mat/0206218
title: Comment on `Aharonov--Casher-Effect Suppression of Macroscopic Tunneling of Magnetic Flux'
authors: Alec Maassen van den Brink
comments: 1 page with built-in figure, REVTeX4. N.B.: `Alec' is my first name, `Maassen van den Brink' my family name. v2: a few textual clarifications; final
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206218
abstract: A recent Letter [1] has proposed a device, consisting of an rf SQUID with the junction replaced by a double one, i.e. a Bloch transistor. For symmetric Josephson couplings, and for specific flux bias and gate voltage applied to the transistor's island, the tunneling of encircled flux between its two local potential minima is claimed to be suppressed completely due to destructive interference. This comment purports to show that this claim in general is not valid. Namely, the very Hamiltonian (1) in [1], from which the effect is derived, describes the circuit only under an additional condition. [1] J.R. Friedman and D.V. Averin, Phys. Rev. Lett._88_, 050403 (2002).

id: cond-mat/0206301
title: Photon statistics and dynamics of Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer
authors: Andrew J. Berglund, Andrew C. Doherty, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206301
abstract: We report high time-resolution measurements of photon statistics from pairs of dye molecules coupled by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). In addition to quantum-optical photon antibunching, we observe photon bunching on a timescale of several nanoseconds. We show by numerical simulation that configuration fluctuations in the coupled fluorophore system could account for minor deviations of our data from predictions of basic Forster theory. With further characterization we believe that FRET photon statistics could provide a unique tool for studying DNA mechanics on timescales from 10^-9 to 10^-3 s.

id: cond-mat/0206310
title: Quantum computing with spin cluster qubits
authors: Florian Meier, Jeremy Levy, Daniel Loss
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; extended discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 047901 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206310
abstract: We study the low energy states of finite spin chains with isotropic (Heisenberg) and anisotropic (XY and Ising-like) exchange interaction with uniform and non-uniform coupling constants. We show that for an odd number of sites a spin cluster qubit can be defined in terms of the ground state doublet. This qubit is remarkably insensitive to the placement and coupling anisotropy of spins within the cluster. One- and two-qubit quantum gates can be generated by magnetic fields and inter-cluster exchange, and leakage during quantum gate operation is small. Spin cluster qubits inherit the long decoherence times and short gate operation times of single spins. Control of single spins is hence not necessary for the realization of universal quantum gates.

id: cond-mat/0206337
title: Treatment of backscattering in a gas of interacting fermions confined to a one-dimensional harmonic atom trap
authors: Gao Xianlong, F. Gleisberg, F. Lochmann, W. Wonneberger
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 023610 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206337
abstract: An asymptotically exact many body theory for spin polarized interacting fermions in a one-dimensional harmonic atom trap is developed using the bosonization method and including backward scattering. In contrast to the Luttinger model, backscattering in the trap generates one-particle potentials which must be diagonalized simultaneously with the two-body interactions. Inclusion of backscattering becomes necessary because backscattering is the dominant interaction process between confined identical one-dimensional fermions. The bosonization method is applied to the calculation of one-particle matrix elements at zero temperature. A detailed discussion of the validity of the results from bosonization is given, including a comparison with direct numerical diagonalization in fermionic Hilbert space. A model for the interaction coefficients is developed along the lines of the Luttinger model with only one coupling constant $K$. With these results, particle densities, the Wigner function, and the central pair correlation function are calculated and displayed for large fermion numbers. It is shown how interactions modify these quantities. The anomalous dimension of the pair correlation function in the center of the trap is also discussed and found to be in accord with the Luttinger model.

id: cond-mat/0206396
title: Entanglement of solid-state qubits by measurement
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 67, 241305(R) (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206396
abstract: We show that two identical solid-state qubits can be made fully entangled (starting from completely mixed state) with probability 1/4 just measuring them by a detector, equally coupled to the qubits. This happens in the case of repeated strong (projective) measurements as well as in a more realistic case of weak continuous measurement. In the latter case the entangled state can be identified by a flat spectrum of the detector shot noise, while the non-entangled state (probability 3/4) leads to a spectral peak at the Rabi frequency with the maximum peak-to-pedestal ratio of 32/3.

id: cond-mat/0206585
title: Casimir Forces: An Exact Approach for Periodically Deformed Objects
authors: Thorsten Emig
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.62:466-472,2003
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0206585
abstract: A novel approach for calculating Casimir forces between periodically deformed objects is developed. This approach allows, for the first time, a rigorous non-perturbative treatment of the Casimir effect for disconnected objects beyond Casimir's original two-plate configuration. The approach takes into account the collective nature of fluctuation induced forces, going beyond the commonly used pairwise summation of two-body van der Waals forces. As an application of the method, we exactly calculate the Casimir force due to scalar field fluctuations between a flat and a rectangular corrugated plate. In the latter case, the force is found to be always attractive.

id: gr-qc/0206030
title: On the Geometrical Character of Gravitation
authors: C. Chryssomalakos, D. Sudarsky
comments: 10 pages. Submitted to General Relativity and Gravitation. V2: a misspelled reference corrected
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 35 (2003) 605-617
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0206030
abstract: The issue of whether some manifestations of gravitation in the quantum domain, are indicative or not of a non-geometrical aspect in gravitation is discussed. We examine some examples that have been considered in this context, providing a critical analysis of previous interpretations. The analysis of these examples is illustrative about certain details in the interpretation of quantum mechanics. We conclude that there are, at this time, no indications of such departure from the geometrical character of gravitation.

id: gr-qc/0206037
title: Complexifier Coherent States for Quantum General Relativity
authors: Thomas Thiemann
comments: Latex, 54 p., no figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 2063-2118
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0206037
abstract: Recently, substantial amount of activity in Quantum General Relativity (QGR) has focussed on the semiclassical analysis of the theory. In this paper we want to comment on two such developments: 1) Polymer-like states for Maxwell theory and linearized gravity constructed by Varadarajan which use much of the Hilbert space machinery that has proved useful in QGR and 2) coherent states for QGR, based on the general complexifier method, with built-in semiclassical properties. We show the following: A) Varadarajan's states {\it are} complexifier coherent states. This unifies all states constructed so far under the general complexifier principle. B) Ashtekar and Lewandowski suggested a non-Abelean generalization of Varadarajan's states to QGR which, however, are no longer of the complexifier type. We construct a new class of non-Abelean complexifiers which come close to the one underlying Varadarajan's construction. C) Non-Abelean complexifiers close to Varadarajan's induce new types of Hilbert spaces which do not support the operator algebra of QGR. The analysis suggests that if one sticks to the present kinematical framework of QGR and if kinematical coherent states are at all useful, then normalizable, graph dependent states must be used which are produced by the complexifier method as well. D) Present proposals for states with mildened graph dependence, obtained by performing a graph average, do not approximate well coordinate dependent observables. However, graph dependent states, whether averaged or not, seem to be well suited for the semiclassical analysis of QGR with respect to coordinate independent operators.

id: gr-qc/0206053
title: Quantization Ambiguities in Isotropic Quantum Geometry
authors: Martin Bojowald
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.19:5113-5230,2002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0206053
abstract: Some typical quantization ambiguities of quantum geometry are studied within isotropic models. Since this allows explicit computations of operators and their spectra, one can investigate the effects of ambiguities in a quantitative manner. It is shown that those ambiguities do not affect the fate of the classical singularity, demonstrating that the absence of a singularity in loop quantum cosmology is a robust implication of the general quantization scheme. The calculations also allow conclusions about modified operators in the full theory. In particular, using holonomies in a non-fundamental representation of SU(2) to quantize connection components turns out to lead to significant corrections to classical behavior at macroscopic volume for large values of the spin of the chosen representation.

id: hep-th/0206008
title: On momentum operator in quantum field theory
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 13 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: In: Frontiers in quantum physics research, Editors F. Columbus and V. Krasnoholovets, Nova Science Pub., Inc., New York, 2004, pp.143-156
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0206008
abstract: The interrelations between the two definitions of momentum operator, via the canonical energy-momentum tensorial operator and as translation operator (on the operator space), are studied in quantum field theory. These definitions give rise to similar but, generally, different momentum operators, each of them having its own place in the theory. Some speculations on the relations between quantum field theory and quantum mechanics are presented.

id: hep-th/0206037
title: Group contractions and its consequences upon representations of different spatial symmetry groups
authors: Mauricio Ayala, Richard Haase
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of the Summer School "Geometric and Topological methods for Quantum Field Theory", Villa de Leyva, Colombia (2001)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0206037
abstract: We investigate the group contraction method for various space-time groups, including SO(3)->E_2, SO(3,1)->G_3, SO(5-h,h)->P(3,1) (h=1 or 2), and its consequences for representations of these groups. Following strictly quantum mechanical procedures we specifically pay attention in the asymptotic limiting procedure employed in the contraction G -> G', not only to the respective algebras but to their representations spaces spanned by the eigenvectors of the Cartan subalgebra and the eigenvalues labelling these representation spaces. Where appropriate a physical interpretation is given to the contraction prodecure.

id: hep-th/0206097
title: A note on quantization of matrix models
authors: Artem Starodubtsev
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: Nucl.Phys. B674 (2003) 533-552
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0206097
abstract: The issue of non-perturbative background independent quantization of matrix models is addressed. The analysis is carried out by considering a simple matrix model which is a matrix extension of ordinary mechanics reduced to 0 dimension. It is shown that this model has an ordinary mechanical system evolving in time as a classical solution. But in this treatment the action principle admits a natural modification which results in algebraic relations describing quantum theory. The origin of quantization is similar to that in Adler's generalized quantum dynamics. The problem with extension of this formalism to many degrees of freedom is solved by packing all the degrees of freedom into a single matrix. The possibility to apply this scheme to field theory and to various matrix models is discussed.

id: hep-th/0206120
title: Statistical Dynamics of Global Unitary Invariant Matrix Models as Pre-Quantum Mechanics
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Draft of a book; 175 pages in TeX. Comments welcome; revisions as needed will be made around 10/1/02
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0206120
abstract: We consider the classical dynamics of bosonic and fermionic matrix variables in complex Hilbert space, defined by a trace action, assuming cyclic invariance under the trace and the presence of a global unitary invariance. With plausible and explicitly stated assumptions, including the existence of a large hierarchy of scale between the underlying dynamics and observed physics, we show that (1) the equilibrium statistical mechanics of this matrix dynamics, in the canonical ensemble, gives rise to an emergent quantum mechanics for many degrees of freedom, including the standard canonical commutation/anticommutation relations and the usual unitary Heisenberg and Schr\"odinger picture time evolutions of operators and states, and (2) the fluctuation or Brownian motion corrections to this thermodyamics lead to an energy-driven stochastic modification of the Schr\"odinger equation, which is known to imply state vector reduction with Born rule probabilities. Thus, quantum mechanics and its probabilistic interpretation both arise as emergent phenomena in the underlying trace dynamics.

id: hep-th/0206235
title: Exact uncertainty properties of bosonic fields
authors: Michael J.W. Hall, Kailash Kumar, Marcel Reginatto
comments: revtex4, 31 pages, clarifications made. Due to the logical independence (and lengths) of (A) and (B), the corresponding sections will be published separately
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0206235
abstract: (A) The momentum density conjugate to a bosonic quantum field splits naturally into the sum of a classical component and a nonclassical component. It is shown that the field and the nonclassical component of the momentum density satisfy an_exact_ uncertainty relation, i.e., an equality, which underlies the Heisenberg-type uncertainty relation for fields. (B) The above motivates a new approach to deriving and interpreting bosonic quantum fields, based on an exact uncertainty principle. In particular, the postulate that an ensemble of classical fields is subject to nonclassical momentum fluctuations, of a strength determined by the field uncertainty, leads from the classical to the quantum field equations. Examples include scalar, electromagnetic and gravitational fields. For the latter case the exact uncertainty principle specifies a unique (non-Laplacian) operator ordering for the Wheeler-deWitt equation.

id: math-ph/0206032
title: A stochastic golden rule and quantum Langevin equation for the low density limit
authors: L. Accardi, A.N. Pechen, I.V. Volovich
comments: 
journal: Infinite Dimens. Analysis Quantum Probab. Relat. Topics, Vol. 6 N3 (2003) pp. 431-453
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0206032
abstract: A rigorous derivation of quantum Langevin equation from microscopic dynamics in the low density limit is given. We consider a quantum model of a microscopic system (test particle) coupled with a reservoir (gas of light Bose particles) via interaction of scattering type. We formulate a mathematical procedure (the so-called stochastic golden rule) which allows us to determine the quantum Langevin equation in the limit of large time and small density of particles of the reservoir. The quantum Langevin equation describes not only dynamics of the system but also the reservoir. We show that the generator of the corresponding master equation has the Lindblad form of most general generators of completely positive semigroups.

id: math-ph/0206044
title: 6j-symbols for symmetric representations of SO(n) as the double series
authors: S. Alisauskas
comments: 21 page, structure of paper is changed, some sentences and details of formulas are corrected, several references are added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0206044
abstract: The corrected triple sum expression of Ali\v{s}auskas (1987) for the recoupling (Racah) coefficients (6j-symbols) of the symmetric (most degenerate) representations of the orthogonal groups SO(n) (previously derived from the fourfold sum expression of Ali\v{s}auskas also related to result of Horme\ss and Junker 1999) is rearranged into three new different double sum expressions (related to the hypergeometric Kamp\'e de F\'eriet type series) and a new triple sum expression with preferable summation condition. The Regge type symmetry of special 6j-symbols of the orthogonal groups SO(n) in terms of special Kamp\'e de F\'eriet $F_{1:3}^{1:4}$ series is revealed. The recoupling coefficients for antisymmetric representations of symplectic group Sp(2n) are derived using their relation with the recoupling coefficients of the formal orthogonal group SO(-2n).

id: physics/0206005
title: Atomic Fractals in Cavity QED
authors: S. V. Prants, V. Yu. Argonov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, new experimentally feasible scheme of generating atomic fractals added, submitted to Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0206005
abstract: We report a clear evidence of atomic fractals in the nonlinear motion of a two-level atom in a standing-wave microcavity. Fractal-like structures, typical for chaotic scattering, are numerically found in the dependencies of outgoing positions and momenta of scattered atoms on their ingoing values and in the dependence of exit times of cold atoms on their initial momenta in the generic semiclassical models of cavity QED (1) with atoms in a far-detuned amplitude (phase)-modulated standing wave and (2) with coupled atomic external and internal degrees of freedom. Tiny interplay between all the degrees of freedom in the second model is responsible for trapping atoms even in a very short microcavity. It may lead simultaneously, at least, to two kinds of atomic fractals, a countable fractal (a set of initial momenta generating separatrix-like atomic trajectories) and a seemingly uncountable fractal with a set of momenta generating infinite walkings of atoms inside the cavity.

id: physics/0206038
title: Shannon information increase and rescue in friction
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 8 pp, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0206038
abstract: On the standard microscopic model of friction we confirm the common belief that the irreversible entropy production originates from the increase of Shannon information. We reveal that the reversible microscopic dynamics would continuously violate the Gibbsian interchangeability of molecules. The spontaneous restoration of interchangeability constitutes the mechanism of irreversibility. This is the main suggestion of the Letter. We also point out that the irreversible entropy can partially be rescued if the size of the medium is finite. The rescueable entropy is found to be proportional to the square of the Fisher statistical (also called thermodynamic) distance.

