id: quant-ph/0208001
title: Concurrence as a Relative Entropy with Hilbert-Schmidt Distance in Bell Decomposable States
authors: S.J. Akhtarshenas, M.A. Jafarizadeh
comments: 14 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208001
abstract: Hilbert-Schmidt distance reduces to Euclidean distance in Bell decomposable states. Based on this, entanglement of these states are obtained according to the protocol proposed in Ref. [V. Vedral et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 2275 (1995)] with Hilbert-Schmidt distance. It is shown that this measure is equal to the concurrence and thus can be used to generate entanglement of formation. We also introduce a new measure of distance and show that under the action of restricted LQCC operations, the associated measure of entanglement transforms in the same way as the concurrence transforms .

id: quant-ph/0208002
title: I-concurrence and tangle for isotropic states
authors: Pranaw Rungta, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208002
abstract: We discuss properties of entanglement measures called I-concurrence and tangle. For a bipartite pure state, I-concurrence and tangle are simply related to the purity of the marginal density operators. The I-concurrence (tangle) of a bipartite mixed state is the minimum average I-concurrence (tangle) of ensemble decompositions of pure states of the joint density operator. Terhal and Vollbrecht [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2625 (2000)] have given an explicit formula for the entanglement of formation of isotropic states in arbitrary dimensions. We use their formalism to derive comparable expressions for the I-concurrence and tangle of isotropic states.

id: quant-ph/0208003
title: Gate-Level Simulation of Quantum Circuits
authors: George F. Viamontes, Manoj Rajagopalan, Igor L. Markov, John P. Hayes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208003
abstract: While thousands of experimental physicists and chemists are currently trying to build scalable quantum computers, it appears that simulation of quantum computation will be at least as critical as circuit simulation in classical VLSI design. However, since the work of Richard Feynman in the early 1980s little progress was made in practical quantum simulation. Most researchers focused on polynomial-time simulation of restricted types of quantum circuits that fall short of the full power of quantum computation. Simulating quantum computing devices and useful quantum algorithms on classical hardware now requires excessive computational resources, making many important simulation tasks infeasible. In this work we propose a new technique for gate-level simulation of quantum circuits which greatly reduces the difficulty and cost of such simulations. The proposed technique is implemented in a simulation tool called the Quantum Information Decision Diagram (QuIDD) and evaluated by simulating Grover's quantum search algorithm. The back-end of our package, QuIDD Pro, is based on Binary Decision Diagrams, well-known for their ability to efficiently represent many seemingly intractable combinatorial structures. This reliance on a well-established area of research allows us to take advantage of existing software for BDD manipulation and achieve unparalleled empirical results for quantum simulation.

id: quant-ph/0208004
title: Entwined Paths, Difference Equations and the Dirac Equation
authors: G.N. Ord, R.B. Mann
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures Replacement 11/02 contains minor editorial changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208004
abstract: Entwined space-time paths are bound pairs of trajectories which are traversed in opposite directions with respect to macroscopic time. In this paper we show that ensembles of entwined paths on a discrete space-time lattice are simply described by coupled difference equations which are discrete versions of the Dirac equation. There is no analytic continuation, explicit or forced, involved in this description. The entwined paths are `self-quantizing'. We also show that simple classical stochastic processes that generate the difference equations as ensemble averages are stable numerically and converge at a rate governed by the details of the stochastic process. This result establishes the Dirac equation in one dimension as a phenomenological equation describing an underlying classical stochastic process in the same sense that the Diffusion and Telegraph equations are phenomenological descriptions of stochastic processes.

id: quant-ph/0208005
title: Magnetic Properties of Scalar Particles --The Scalar Aharonov-Casher Effect and Supersymmetry
authors: Xiao-Gang He, Bruce H. McKellar
comments: RevTex 13 pages including one Figure. New Discussions added
journal: Phys.Lett.B559:263-269,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208005
abstract: The original topological Aharonov-Casher (AC) effect is due to the interaction of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment (MDM) with certain configurations of electric field. Naively one would not expect an AC effect for a scalar particle for which no anomalous MDM can be defined in the usual sense. In this letter we study the AC effect in supersymmetric systems. In this framework there is the possibility of deducing the AC effect of a scalar particle from the corresponding effect for a spinor particle. In 3+1 dimensions such a connection is not possible because the anomalous MDM is zero if supersymmetry is an exact symmetry. However, in 2+1 dimensions it is possible to have an anomalous MDM even with exact supersymmetry. Having demonstrated the relationship between the spinor and the scalar MDM, we proceed to show that the scalar AC effect is uniquely defined. We then compute the anomalous MDM at the one loop level, showing how the scalar form arises in 2+1 dimensions from the coupling of the scalar to spinors. This model shows how an AC effect for a scalar can be generated for non-supersymmetric theories, and we construct such a model to illustrate the mechanism.

id: quant-ph/0208006
title: Quantum noise influencing human behaviour could fake effectiveness of drugs in clinical trials
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208006
abstract: To test the effectiveness of a drug one can advice two randomly selected groups of patients to take or not to take it, respectively. It is well-known that the causal effect cannot be identified if not all patients comply. This holds even when the non-compliers can be identified afterwards since latent factors like patient's personality can influence both his decision and his physical response. However, one can still give bounds on the effectiveness of the drug depending on the rate of compliance. Remarkably, the proofs of these bounds given in the literature rely on models that represent all relevant latent factors (including noise) by hidden classical variables. In strong analogy to the violation of Bell's inequality, some of these bounds fail if patient's behavior is influenced by latent quantum processes (e.g. in his nervous system). Quantum effects could fake an increase of the recovery rate by about 13% although the drug would hurt as many patients as it would help if everyone took it. The other bounds are true even in the quantum case. We do not present any realistic model showing this effect, we only point out that the physics of decision making could be relevant for the causal interpretation of every-day life statistical data.

id: quant-ph/0208007
title: The fully entangled fraction as an inclusive measure of entanglement applications
authors: J. Grondalski, D.M. Etlinger, D.F.V. James
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, accepted in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A, vol. 300, pp. 569-576 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208007
abstract: Characterizing entanglement in all but the simplest case of a two qubit pure state is a hard problem, even understanding the relevant experimental quantities that are related to entanglement is difficult. It may not be necessary, however, to quantify the entanglement of a state in order to quantify the quantum information processing significance of a state. It is known that the fully entangled fraction has a direct relationship to the fidelity of teleportation maximized under the actions of local unitary operations. In the case of two qubits we point out that the fully entangled fraction can also be related to the fidelities, maximized under the actions of local unitary operations, of other important quantum information tasks such as dense coding, entanglement swapping and quantum cryptography in such a way as to provide an inclusive measure of these entanglement applications. For two qubit systems the fully entangled fraction has a simple known closed-form expression and we establish lower and upper bounds of this quantity with the concurrence. This approach is readily extendable to more complicated systems.

id: quant-ph/0208008
title: From Qubits to Continuous-Variable Quantum Computation
authors: Barry C Sanders, Stephen D. Bartlett, Hubert de Guise
comments: 7 pages, presented at ICSSUR'01 (Boston, MA, USA, June 2001)
journal: Proceedings, ICSSUR'01, ed. D. Han, Y. S. Kim, B. E. A. Saleh, A. V. Sergienko, and M. C. Teich (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208008
abstract: By encoding a qudit in a harmonic oscillator and investigating the d --> infinity limit, we give an entirely new realization of continuous-variable quantum computation. The generalized Pauli group is generated by number and phase operators for harmonic oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0208009
title: Wavefunction Collapse and Random Walk
authors: Brian Collett, Philip Pearle
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208009
abstract: Wavefunction collapse models modify Schrodinger's equation so that it describes the rapid evolution of a superposition of macroscopically distinguishable states to one of them. This provides a phenomenological basis for a physical resolution to the so-called "measurement problem." Such models have experimentally testable differences from standard quantum theory. The most well developed such model at present is the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) model in which a fluctuating classical field interacts with particles to cause collapse. One "side effect" of this interaction is that the field imparts momentum to particles, causing a small blob of matter to undergo random walk. Here we explore this in order to supply predictions which could be experimentally tested. We examine the translational diffusion of a sphere and a disc, and the rotational diffusion of a disc, according to CSL. For example, we find that a disc of radius 2 cdot 10^{-5} cm and thickness 0.5 cdot 10^{-5} cm diffuses through 2 pi rad in about 70sec (this assumes the "standard" CSL parameter values). The comparable rms diffusion of standard quantum theory is smaller than this by a factor 10^-3. At the reported pressure of < 5 cdot10^{-17} Torr, achieved at 4.2^{circ} K, the mean time between air molecule collisions with the disc is approximately 45min (and the diffusion caused by photon collisons is utterly negligible). This is ample time for observation of the putative CSL diffusion over a wide range of parameters. This encourages consideration of how such an experiment may actually be performed, and the paper closes with some thoughts on this subject

id: quant-ph/0208010
title: Quarticles and the Identity of Indiscernibles
authors: Nick Huggett
comments: 11 pages. To appear in K.A. Brading and E. Castellani (eds.), "Symmetries in Physics: Philosophical Reflections", CUP 2003. The updated version (v.2) corrects a minor statement of mathematical fact, and provides a short proof for a conjecture made in the original
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208010
abstract: The principle of the identity of indiscernibles (PII) states that if two systems are qualitatively identical then they are logically identical. French and Redhead (1988) and Butterfield (1993) have shown the sense in which bosons and fermions violate the PII, but did not investigate the issue for particles of other kinds of statistics: i.e., for the (p,q) particles -- or `quarticles' -- of Hartle, Stolt and Taylor (1970). This paper shows that for any type of indistinguishable quarticle the PII is violated but that for distinguishable quarticles there are states in which it is violated by any pair of particles, states in which it is violated only by some pairs of particles and states in which it is violated by no pairs of particles. The updated version corrects a minor statement of mathematical fact, and provides a short proof for a conjecture made in the original.

id: quant-ph/0208011
title: An interpretation of the black-body radiation
authors: Shun-ichiro Koh
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208011
abstract: The black-body radiation is reinterpreted in terms of the photon's many-body wave functions in analogy with the condensed matter physics. This interpretation has implications on the wave-particle duality, and on the difference between the photon and the matter wave.

id: quant-ph/0208012
title: Quantization, group contraction and zero point energy
authors: M. Blasone, E. Celeghini, P. Jizba, G. Vitiello
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A310 (2003) 393-399
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208012
abstract: We study algebraic structures underlying 't Hooft's construction relating classical systems with the quantum harmonic oscillator. The role of group contraction is discussed. We propose the use of SU(1,1) for two reasons: because of the isomorphism between its representation Hilbert space and that of the harmonic oscillator and because zero point energy is implied by the representation structure. Finally, we also comment on the relation between dissipation and quantization.

id: quant-ph/0208013
title: Intrinsic decoherence and classical-quantum correspondence in two coupled delta-kicked rotors
authors: Hwa-Kyun Park, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208013
abstract: We show that classical-quantum correspondence of center of mass motion in two coupled delta-kicked rotors can be obtained from intrinsic decoherence of the system itself which occurs due to the entanglement of the center of mass motion to the internal degree of freedom without coupling to external environment.

id: quant-ph/0208014
title: Quantum Communication and Decoherence
authors: Hans Aschauer, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures, LaTeX, book chapter to appear in ``Coherent Evolution in Noisy Environments'', Lecture Notes in Physics, (Springer Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg-New York). Minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208014
abstract: In this contribution we will give a brief overview on the methods used to overcome decoherence in quantum communication protocols. We give an introduction to quantum error correction, entanglement purification and quantum cryptography. It is shown that entanglement purification can be used to create ``private entanglement'', which makes it a useful tool for cryptographic protocols.

id: quant-ph/0208015
title: Optimal Teleportation Based on Bell Measurement
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Wen-Li Yang
comments: 7 pages, latex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A66, 012301-012304 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208015
abstract: We study optimal teleportation based on the Bell measurements. An explicit expression for the quantum channel associated with the optimal teleportation with an arbitrary mixed state resource is presented. The optimal transmission fidelity of the corresponding quantum channel is calculated and shown to be related to the fully entangled fraction of the quantum resource, rather than the singlet fraction as in the standard teleportation protocol.

id: quant-ph/0208016
title: Trapping and cooling single atoms with far-off resonance intracavity doughnut modes
authors: Stefano Pirandola, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 18 pages, 18 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 023404 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208016
abstract: We investigate cooling and trapping of single atoms inside an optical cavity using a quasi-resonant field and a far-off resonant mode of the Laguerre-Gauss type. The far-off resonant doughnut mode provides an efficient trapping in the case when it shifts the atomic internal ground and excited state in the same way, which is particularly useful for quantum information applications of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) systems. Long trapping times can be achieved, as shown by full 3-D simulations of the quasi-classical motion inside the resonator.

id: quant-ph/0208017
title: Radiation reaction in quantum field theory
authors: Atsushi Higuchi
comments: 13 pages, RevTeX, no figures. An error is corrected: the Lorentz-Dirac theory is reproduced by quantum field theory as a result
journal: Phys.Rev.D66:105004,2002; Erratum-ibid.D69:129903,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208017
abstract: We investigate radiation-reaction effects for a charged scalar particle accelerated by an external potential realized as a space-dependent mass term in quantum electrodynamics. In particular, we calculate the position shift of the final-state wave packet of the charged particle due to radiation at lowest order in the fine structure constant alpha and in the small h-bar approximation. We show that it disagrees with the result obtained using the Lorentz-Dirac formula for the radiation-reaction force, and that it agrees with the classical theory if one assumes that the particle loses its energy to radiation at each moment of time according to the Larmor formula in the static frame of the potential. However, the discrepancy is much smaller than the Compton wavelength of the particle. We also point out that the electromagnetic correction to the potential has no classical limit. (Correction. Surface terms were erroneously discarded to arrive at Eq. (59). By correcting this error we find that the position shift according to the Lorentz-Dirac theory obtained from Eq. (12) is reproduced by quantum field theory in the hbar -> 0 limit. We also find that the small V(z) approximation is unnecessary for this agreement. See Sec. VII.)

id: quant-ph/0208018
title: Realism and the wave-function
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: No figures
journal: Eur. J . Phys. 23, 285 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208018
abstract: Realism -- the idea that the concepts in physical theories refer to 'things' existing in the real world -- is introduced as a tool to analyze the status of the wave-function. Although the physical entities are recognized by the existence of invariant quantities, examples from classical and quantum physics suggest that not all the theoretical terms refer to the entities: some terms refer to properties of the entities, and some terms have only an epistemic function. In particular, it is argued that the wave-function may be written in terms of classical non-referring and epistemic terms. The implications for realist interpretations of quantum mechanics and on the teaching of quantum physics are examined.

id: quant-ph/0208019
title: Robustness of Entanglement for Bell Decomposable States
authors: S.J. Akhtarshenas, M.A. Jafarizadeh
comments: 11 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208019
abstract: We propose a simple geometrical approach for finding the robustness of entanglement for Bell decomposable states of 2 otimes 2 quantum systems. It is shown that the robustness of entanglement is equal to the concurrence. We also present an analytical expression for two separable states that wipe out all entanglement of these states. Finally the random robustness of these states is also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0208020
title: Optimal sequence of quantum measurements in the sense of Stein's lemma in quantum hypothesis testing
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: LaTeX with iopart.cls, iopart12.clo, iopams.sty This paper is heavily reviesed
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, Vol.35, No.50, pp.10759-10773 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208020
abstract: We derive a necessary and sufficient condition for a sequence of quantum measurements to achieve the optimal performance in quantum hypothesis testing. Using an information-spectrum method, we discuss what quantum measurement we should perform in order to attain the optimal exponent of the second error probability under the condition that the first error probability goes to 0. As an asymptotically optimal measurement, we propose a projection measurement characterized by the irreducible representation theory of the special linear group SL(H). Specially, in spin 1/2 system, it is realized by the simultaneous measurement of the total momentum and a momentum of a specified direction. As a byproduct, we obtain another proof of quantum Stein's lemma.

id: quant-ph/0208021
title: Wave Packets can Factorize Numbers
authors: Holger Mack, Marc Bienert, Florian Haug, Matthias Freyberger, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: Contribution to the Proceedings of the 275th WE-Heraeus-Seminar "Hardware Concepts for Quantum Computing"
journal: phys. stat. sol (b) 233, No. 3, 408-415 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208021
abstract: We draw attention to various aspects of number theory emerging in the time evolution of elementary quantum systems with quadratic phases. Such model systems can be realized in actual experiments. Our analysis paves the way to a new, promising and effective method to factorize numbers.

id: quant-ph/0208022
title: Quantum Teleportation of Optical Quantum Gates
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, William J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 117901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208022
abstract: We show that a universal set of gates for quantum computation with optics can be quantum teleported through the use of EPR entangled states, homodyne detection, and linear optics and squeezing operations conditioned on measurement outcomes. This scheme may be used for fault-tolerant quantum computation in any optical scheme (qubit or continuous variable). The teleportation of nondeterministic nonlinear gates employed in linear optics quantum computation is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0208023
title: Complete positivity and dissipative factorized dynamics
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, R. Romano
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208023
abstract: We show that any Hermiticity and trace preserving continuous semigroup gamma_t in d dimensions is completely positive if and only if the semigroup gamma_t otimes gamma_t is positivity preserving.

id: quant-ph/0208024
title: Complementarity, measurement and information in interference experiments
authors: G. Bimonte, R. Musto
comments: Latex, 16 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208024
abstract: Different criteria (Shannon's entropy, Bayes' average cost, Durr's normalized rms spread) have been introduced to measure the "which-way" information present in interference experiments where, due to non-orthogonality of the detector states, the path determination is incomplete. For each of these criteria, we determine the optimal measurement to be carried on the detectors, in order to read out the maximum which-way information. We show that, while in two-beam experiments, the optimal measurement is always provided by an observable involving the detector only, in multibeam experiments, with equally populated beams and two-state detectors, this is the case only for the Durr criterion, as the other two require the introduction of an ancillary quantum system, as part of the read-out apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0208025
title: Quantum Computation with Vibrationally Excited Molecules
authors: Carmen M. Tesch, Regina de Vivie-Riedle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208025
abstract: A new physical implementation for quantum computation is proposed. The vibrational modes of molecules are used to encode qubit systems. Global quantum logic gates are realized using shaped femtosecond laser pulses which are calculated applying optimal control theory. The scaling of the system is favourable, sources for decoherence can be eliminated. A complete set of one and two quantum gates is presented for a specific molecule. Detailed analysis regarding experimental realization shows that the structural resolution of today's pulse shapers is easiliy sufficient for pulse formation.

id: quant-ph/0208026
title: Path Integrals and Their Application to Dissipative Quantum Systems
authors: Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 55 pages, 13 figures. To be published in "Coherent Evolution in Noisy Environments", Lecture Notes in Physics (this http URL) (Springer Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg-New York)
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics, Vol. 611, pp. 1-53 (Springer, 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208026
abstract: Introduction Path Integrals - Introduction - Propagator - Free Particle - Path Integral Representation of Quantum Mechanics - Particle on a Ring - Particle in a Box - Driven Harmonic Oscillator - Semiclassical Approximation - Imaginary Time Path Integral Dissipative Systems - Introduction - Environment as Collection of Harmonic Oscillators - Effective Action Damped Harmonic Oscillator - Partition Function - Ground State Energy and Density of States - Position Autocorrelation Function

id: quant-ph/0208027
title: Measurement of the phase diffusion dynamics in the micromaser
authors: F. Casagrande, A. Ferraro, A. Lulli, R. Bonifacio, E. Solano, H. Walther
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 183601 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208027
abstract: We propose a realistic scheme for measuring the micromaser linewidth by monitoring the phase diffusion dynamics of the cavity field. Our strategy consists in exciting an initial coherent state with the same photon number distribution as the micromaser steady-state field, singling out a purely diffusive process in the system dynamics. After the injection of a counter-field, measurements of the population statistics of a probe atom allow us to derive the micromaser linewidth. Our proposal aims at solving a classic and relevant decoherence problem in cavity quantum electrodynamics, allowing to establish experimentally the distinctive features appearing in the micromaser spectrum due to the discreteness of the electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0208028
title: Unextendible product bases and the construction of inseparable states
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger
comments: to appear in Lin. Alg. Appl
journal: Linear Alg. Appl. 359 (2003) 235-258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208028
abstract: Let H[N] denote the tensor product of n finite dimensional Hilbert spaces H(r). A state |phi> of H[N] is separable if |phi> is the tensor product of states in the respective product spaces. An orthogonal unextendible product basis is a finite set B of separable orthonormal states |phi(k)> such that the non-empty space B9perp), the set of vectors orthogonal to B, contains no separable projection. Examples of orthogonal UPB sets were first constructed by Bennett et al [1] and other examples appear, for example, in [2] and [3]. If F denotes the set of convex combinations of the projections |phi(k)><phi(k)|, then F is a face in the set S of separable densities. In this note we show how to use F to construct families of positive partial transform states (PPT) which are not separable. We also show how to make an analogous construction when the condition of orthogonality is dropped. The analysis is motivated by the geometry of the faces of the separable states and leads to a natural construction of entanglement witnesses separating the inseparable PPT states from S.

id: quant-ph/0208029
title: Optimized phase switching using a single atom nonlinearity
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Kunihiro Kojima, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, added comments on derivation and assumptions
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, 218 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208029
abstract: We show that a nonlinear phase shift of pi can be obtained by using a single two level atom in a one sided cavity with negligible losses. This result implies that the use of a one sided cavity can significantly improve the pi/18 phase shift previously observed by Turchette et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 4710 (1995)].

id: quant-ph/0208030
title: Decay process accelerated by tunneling in its very early stage
authors: T. Koide, F.M. Toyama
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A66 (2002) 064102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208030
abstract: We examine a fast decay process that arises in the transition period between the Gaussian and exponential decay processes in quantum decay systems. It is usually expected that the decay is decelerated by a confinement potential barrier. However, we find a case where the decay in the transition period is accelerated by tunneling through a confinement potential barrier. We show that the acceleration gives rise to an appreciable effect on the time evolution of the nonescape probability of the decay system.

id: quant-ph/0208031
title: Intermediate states in quantum cryptography and Bell inequalities
authors: H. Bechmann-Pasquinucci, N. Gisin
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208031
abstract: Intermediate states are known from intercept/resend eavesdropping in the BB84 quantum cryptographic protocol. But they also play fundamental roles in the optimal eavesdropping strategy on BB84 and in the CHSH inequality. We generalize the intermediate states to arbitrary dimension and consider intercept/resend eavesdropping, optimal eavesdropping on the generalized BB84 protocol and present a generalized CHSH inequality for two entangled quNits based on these states.

id: quant-ph/0208032
title: Decoherence induced continuous pointer states
authors: Ph. Blanchard, R. Olkiewicz
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208032
abstract: We investigate the reduced dynamics in the Markovian approximation of an infinite quantum spin system linearly coupled to a phonon field at positive temperature. The achieved diagonalization leads to a selection of the continuous family of pointer states corresponding to a configuration space of the one-dimensional Ising model. Such a family provides a mathematical description of an apparatus with continuous readings.

id: quant-ph/0208033
title: Neural Unpredictability, the Interpretation of Quantum Theory, and the Mind-Body Problem
authors: Matthew J. Donald
comments: 27 pages, plain TeX, v2: missing reference inserted, related papers from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208033
abstract: It has been suggested, on the one hand, that quantum states are just states of knowledge; and, on the other, that quantum theory is merely a theory of correlations. These suggestions are confronted with problems about the nature of psycho-physical parallelism and about how we could define probabilities for our individual future observations given our individual present and previous observations. The complexity of the problems is underlined by arguments that unpredictability in ordinary everyday neural functioning, ultimately stemming from small-scale uncertainties in molecular motions, may overwhelm, by many orders of magnitude, many conventionally recognized sources of observed ``quantum'' uncertainty. Some possible ways of avoiding the problems are considered but found wanting. It is proposed that a complete understanding of the relationship between subjective experience and its physical correlates requires the introduction of mathematical definitions and indeed of new physical laws.

id: quant-ph/0208034
title: State reconstruction of the kicked rotor
authors: M. Bienert, F. Haug, W.P. Schleich, M.G. Raizen
comments: 
journal: PRL 89, 050403 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208034
abstract: We propose two experimentally feasible methods based on atom interferometry to measure the quantum state of the kicked rotor.

id: quant-ph/0208035
title: Kicked Rotor in Wigner Phase Space
authors: M. Bienert, F. Haug, W.P. Schleich, M.G. Raizen
comments: Contribution to the Porceedings of the "Adriatico Research Conference on Quantum Interferometry IV", (Trieste, March 11-15, 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208035
abstract: We develop the Wigner phase space representation of a kicked particle for an arbitrary but periodic kicking potential. We use this formalism to illustrate quantum resonances and anti--resonances.

id: quant-ph/0208036
title: Simplified and obvious expression of concurrence in Wootters' measure of entanglement of a pair of qubits
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Chinese Phys. Lett. Vol.20, 1907(2003) [a little revision]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208036
abstract: We obtain a simplified and obvious expression of "concurrence" in Wootters' measure of entanglement of a pair of qubits having no more than two non-zero eigenvalues in terms of concurrences of eigenstates and their simple combinations. It not only simplifies the calculation of Wootters' measure of entanglement, but also reveals some its general and important features. Our conclusions are helpful to understand and use quantum entanglement further.

id: quant-ph/0208037
title: Quartic Anharmonicity in Different Spatial Dimensions
authors: G.V. Efimov, G. Ganbold
comments: ReVTeX, 22 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208037
abstract: A path-integral method effective beyond the perturbation expansion approach is suggested to consider the quartic anharmonicity in different spatial dimensions. Due to an optimal representation of the partition function, the leading term has already taken into account the correct strong-coupling behaviour. In the simplest cases of zero and one dimension we have obtained reasonable results in a simple way. Then, this technique is applied to the superrenormalizable scalar theory phi^4_2 in two dimensions. This results in an accurate estimation of the ground-state energy that provides exact weak- and strong-coupling behaviour already in the leading-order approximation. The next-to-leading terms give rise in insignificant corrections.

id: quant-ph/0208038
title: Master equations for effective Hamiltonians
authors: A.B. Klimov, J.L. Romero, J. Delgado, L.L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, 34--39 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208038
abstract: We reelaborate on a general method for obtaining effective Hamiltonians that describe different nonlinear optical processes. The method exploits the existence of a nonlinear deformation of the su(2) algebra that arises as the dynamical symmetry of the original model. When some physical parameter (usually related to the dispersive limit) becomes small, we immediately get a diagonal effective Hamiltonian that represents correctly the dynamics for arbitrary states and long times. We apply the same technique to obtain how the noise terms in the original model transform under this scheme, providing a systematic way of including damping effects in processes described in terms of effective Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0208039
title: Energy Requirements for Quantum Data Compression and 1-1 Coding
authors: Luke Rallan, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRA, Volume 68, Issue 7, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208039
abstract: By looking at quantum data compression in the second quantisation, we present a new model for the efficient generation and use of variable length codes. In this picture lossless data compression can be seen as the {\em minimum energy} required to faithfully represent or transmit classical information contained within a quantum state. In order to represent information we create quanta in some predefined modes (i.e. frequencies) prepared in one of two possible internal states (the information carrying degrees of freedom). Data compression is now seen as the selective annihilation of these quanta, the energy of whom is effectively dissipated into the environment. As any increase in the energy of the environment is intricately linked to any information loss and is subject to Landauer's erasure principle, we use this principle to distinguish lossless and lossy schemes and to suggest bounds on the efficiency of our lossless compression protocol. In line with the work of Bostr\"{o}m and Felbinger \cite{bostroem}, we also show that when using variable length codes the classical notions of prefix or uniquely decipherable codes are unnecessarily restrictive given the structure of quantum mechanics and that a 1-1 mapping is sufficient. In the absence of this restraint we translate existing classical results on 1-1 coding to the quantum domain to derive a new upper bound on the compression of quantum information. Finally we present a simple quantum circuit to implement our scheme.

id: quant-ph/0208040
title: Spin-dependent recombination - an electronic readout mechanism for solid state quantum computers
authors: Christoph Boehme, Klaus Lips
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, LaTeX code, presented at the 275th Heraeus Seminar on Hardware Concepts for Quantum Computing, to be published in Phys. Stat. Sol. A
journal: physica status solidi (b) 233, 3, p. 427 - 435, 26 SEP 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208040
abstract: It is shown that coherent spin motion of electron-hole pairs localized in band gap states of silicon can influence charge carrier recombination. Based on this effect, a readout concept for silicon based solid-state spin--quantum computers as proposed by Kane is suggested. The 31P quantum bit (qbit) is connected via hyperfine coupling to the spin of the localized donor electron. When a second localized and singly occupied electronic state with an energy level deep within the band gap or close to the valence edge is in proximity, a gate controlled exchange between the 31P nucleus and the two electronic states can be activated that leaves the donor-deep level pair either unchanged in a |T->-state or shifts it into a singlet state |S>. Since the donor deep level transition is spin-dependent, the deep level becomes charged or not, depending on the nuclear spin orientation of the donor nucleus. Thus, the state of the qbit can be read with a sequence of light pulses and photo conductivity measurements.

id: quant-ph/0208041
title: Remarks on the Cross Norm Criterion for Separability
authors: S.J. Akhtarshenas, M.A. Jafarizadeh
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208041
abstract: Recently in Reference [ quant-ph/0202121] a computational criterion of separability induced by greatest cross norm is proposed by Rudolph. There, Rudolph conjectured that the new criterion is not weaker than positive partial transpose criterion for separability. We show that there exist counterexample to this claim, that is, proposed criterion is weaker than the positive partial transpose criterion.

id: quant-ph/0208042
title: The Low-Frequency Character of the Thermal Correction to the Casimir Force between Metallic Films
authors: J.R. Torgerson, S.K. Lamoreaux
comments: two pages modified version takes into account referee comments and corrects a number of errror in the earlier version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208042
abstract: The frequency spectrum of the finite temperature correction to the Casimir force can be determined by the use of the Lifshitz formalism for metallic plates of finite conductivity. We show that the correction for the TE electromagnetic modes is dominated by frequencies so low that the plates cannot be modelled as ideal dielectrics. We also address the issues relating to the behavior of electromagnetic fields at the surfaces an within metallic conductors, and claculate the surface modes using appropriate low-frequency metallic boundary conditions. Our result brings the tehrmal correction into agreement with experimental results that were previously obtained.

id: quant-ph/0208043
title: Quantum Circuits with Unbounded Fan-out
authors: Peter Hoyer, Robert Spalek
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, STACS'2003. v3: rewritten from scratch, new co-author, everything put into constant depth (including quantum Fourier transform). v4: polished a lot
journal: Theory of Computing, 1(5):81-103, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208043
abstract: We demonstrate that the unbounded fan-out gate is very powerful. Constant-depth polynomial-size quantum circuits with bounded fan-in and unbounded fan-out over a fixed basis (denoted by QNCf^0) can approximate with polynomially small error the following gates: parity, mod[q], And, Or, majority, threshold[t], exact[q], and Counting. Classically, we need logarithmic depth even if we can use unbounded fan-in gates. If we allow arbitrary one-qubit gates instead of a fixed basis, then these circuits can also be made exact in log-star depth. Sorting, arithmetical operations, phase estimation, and the quantum Fourier transform with arbitrary moduli can also be approximated in constant depth.

id: quant-ph/0208044
title: Arbitrary qubit rotation through nonadiabatic evolution
authors: Asoka Biswas, G.S. Agarwal
comments: Revised version, 9 pages, 15 figures, two-column ReVTeX format, Changes in text, captions, references and abstract have been made, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208044
abstract: We show how one can perform arbitrary rotation of any qubit, using delayed laser pulses through nonadiabatic evolution, i.e., via transitions among the adiabatic states. We use a double-Lambda scheme and use a set of control parameters such as detuning, ratio of pulse amplitudes, time-separation of two pulses for realizing different rotations of the qubit. We also investigate the effect of different kinds of chirping, namely linear chirping and hyperbolic tangent chirping. Our work using nonadiabatic evolution adds to the flexibility in the implementation of logic gate operations and show how to achieve control of quantum systems by using different types of pulses.

id: quant-ph/0208045
title: Can the Wigner function be determined by properties for translation and parity transformation on lattice phase space?
authors: Minoru Horibe, Takaaki Hashimoto, Akihisa Hayashi
comments: 13 pages
journal: J.Phys.A:Math.Gen. 36(2003)7601-7609
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208045
abstract: We show that the Fano operator for one dimensional quantum system is uniquely determined by assuming the reasonable behavior under translation and parity transformation on phase space. Contrarily, for the system with lattice phase space the same procedure does not work.

id: quant-ph/0208046
title: Hilbert Space Structure in Classical Mechanics: (I)
authors: E. Deotto, E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 74 pages, 2 figures, RevTex; Abstract, Conclusions and Appendix F improved
journal: J.Math.Phys. 44 (2003) 5902-5936
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208046
abstract: In this paper we study the Hilbert space structure underlying the Koopman-von Neumann (KvN) operatorial formulation of classical mechanics. KvN limited themselves to study the Hilbert space of zero-forms that are the square integrable functions on phase space. They proved that in this Hilbert space the evolution is unitary for every system. In this paper we extend the KvN Hilbert space to higher forms which are basically functions of the phase space points and the differentials on phase space. We prove that if we equip this space with a positive definite scalar product the evolution can turn out to be non-unitary for some systems. Vice versa if we insist in having a unitary evolution for every system then the scalar product cannot be positive definite. Identifying the one-forms with the Jacobi fields we provide a physical explanation of these phenomena. We also prove that the unitary/non unitary character of the evolution is invariant under canonical transformations.

id: quant-ph/0208047
title: Hilbert Space Structure in Classical Mechanics: (II)
authors: E. Deotto, E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 45 pages, RevTex; Abstract and Introduction improved
journal: J.Math.Phys. 44 (2003) 5937-5957
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208047
abstract: In this paper we analyze two different functional formulations of classical mechanics. In the first one the Jacobi fields are represented by bosonic variables and belong to the vector (or its dual) representation of the symplectic group. In the second formulation the Jacobi fields are given as condensates of Grassmannian variables belonging to the spinor representation of the metaplectic group. For both formulations we shall show that, differently from what happens in the case presented in paper no. (I), it is possible to endow the associated Hilbert space with a positive definite scalar product and to describe the dynamics via a Hermitian Hamiltonian. The drawback of this formulation is that higher forms do not appear automatically and that the description of chaotic systems may need a further extension of the Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0208048
title: Superluminal transmission is possible from now on
authors: Zbigniew A. Nowacki
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure embedded in a LaTeX file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208048
abstract: It is known that superluminal transmission of information and energy contradicts Einstein's relativity. Here we announce an unusual TOE called 'nature theory' in which impossible things become possible. We present the scheme of an apparatus for sending signals over arbitrarily large distances with speeds arbitrarily exceeding the light speed in vacuum. Introducing the notions of effective speed and reliability of superluminal devices, we encourage experimenters to set and break world records in this new branch. At the same time we outline a mechanism (termed 'particle encapsulation') owing to which nature theory remains Lorentz invariant and so consistent with experiments. From among other numerous applications of nature theory we discuss briefly local antigravitation and new computing machines, called 'vacuum computers', applying 'cat principle'. They are of great interest because should enable humans to overcome the Goedel-Turing barrier.

id: quant-ph/0208049
title: Critique of "No-Signaling Condition and Quantum Dynamics"
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 1 page, uses RevTeX 4, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208049
abstract: We comment on the article of Ch. Simon, V. Buzek and N. Gisin: ``No-Signaling Condition and Quantum Dynamics'', Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 170405, which argues that linearity of quantum mechanics follows from lack of superluminal signals and some usual hypotheses about measurements. We argue that such assumptions in the end are ineffective as an explanation of the linearity of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0208050
title: Optimal Control of Spin Dynamics in the Presence of Relaxation
authors: Navin Khaneja, Timo Reiss, Burkhard Luy, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208050
abstract: Experiments in coherent spectroscopy correspond to control of quantum mechanical ensembles guiding them from initial to final target states. The control inputs (pulse sequences) that accomplish these transformations should be designed to minimize the effects of relaxation and to optimize the sensitivity of the experiments. For example in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, a question of fundamental importance is what is the maximum efficiency of coherence or polarization transfer between two spins in the presence of relaxation. Furthermore, what is the optimal pulse sequence which achieves this efficiency? In this letter, we initiate the study of a class of control systems, which leads to analytical answers to the above questions. Unexpected gains in sensitivity are reported for the most commonly used experiments in NMR spectroscopy.

id: quant-ph/0208051
title: Cavity QED and quantum information processing with "hot" trapped atoms
authors: L.-M. Duan, A. Kuzmich, H.J. Kimble
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 032305 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208051
abstract: We propose a method to implement cavity QED and quantum information processing in high-Q cavities with a single trapped but non-localized atom. The system is beyond the Lamb-Dick limit due to the atomic thermal motion. Our method is based on adiabatic passages, which make the relevant dynamics insensitive to the randomness of the atom position with an appropriate interaction configuration. The validity of this method is demonstrated from both approximate analytical calculations and exact numerical simulations. We also discuss various applications of this method based on the current experimental technology.

id: quant-ph/0208052
title: Echo spectroscopy and quantum stability of trapped atoms
authors: M. F. Andersen, A. Kaplan, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 023001 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208052
abstract: We investigate the dephasing of ultra cold ^{85}Rb atoms trapped in an optical dipole trap and prepared in a coherent superposition of their two hyperfine ground states by interaction with a microwave pulse. We demonstrate that the dephasing, measured as the Ramsey fringe contrast, can be reversed by stimulating a coherence echo with a pi-pulse between the two pi/2 pulses, in analogy to the photon echo. We also demonstrate that the failure of the echo for certain trap parameters is due to dynamics in the trap, and thereby that ''echo spectroscopy'' can be used to study the quantum dynamics in the trap even when more than 10^6 states are thermally populated, and to study the crossover from quantum (where dynamical decoherence is supressed) to classical dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0208053
title: Photons Do Collapse In the Retina Not in the Brain Cortex: Evidence from Visual Illusions
authors: Danko Georgiev
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: NeuroQuantology 2011; 9(2): 206-230
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208053
abstract: While looking for evidence of quantum coherent states within the brain, many quantum mind advocates proposed experiments based on the assumption that the coherent state of a photon entering the visual system could somehow be preserved through the neural processing, or in other words they suppose that photons collapse not in the retina, but in the brain cortex. In this paper we show that photons do collapse within the retina and subsequent processing of information at the level of neural membranes proceeds. Moreover, we explicitly stress on the fact that due to existent amplification of the signal produced by each photon, a basic quantum mechanical theorem forbids the photon state to be teleported from the retina to the brain cortex. The changes of the membrane potential of the neurons in the primary visual cortex are shown to be relevant to inputting visual sensory information that is already processed and is not identical to the visual image entering in the retina. A striking evidence for the existent processing of the incoming visual information by the retina is provided by visual illusions resulting from the lateral inhibition mechanism.

id: quant-ph/0208054
title: An Efficient Source of Single Photons: A Single Quantum Dot in a Micropost Microcavity
authors: Matthew Pelton, Charles Santori, Jelena Vuckovic, Bingyang Zhang, Glenn S. Solomon, Jocelyn Plant, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208054
abstract: We have demonstrated efficient production of triggered single photons by coupling a single semiconductor quantum dot to a three-dimensionally confined optical mode in a micropost microcavity. The efficiency of emitting single photons into a single-mode travelling wave is approximately 38%, which is nearly two orders of magnitude higher than for a quantum dot in bulk semiconductor material. At the same time, the probability of having more than one photon in a given pulse is reduced by a factor of seven as compared to light with Poissonian photon statistics.

id: quant-ph/0208055
title: Generalized (s-Parameterized) Weyl Transformation
authors: Alex Granik
comments: LaTeX (amsmath, amsextra) 16 pages, appendix (fixing LaTex idiosincrasies); fixing some minor typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208055
abstract: A general canonical transformation of mechanical operators of position and momentum is considered. It is shown that it automatically generates a parameter s which leads to a generalized (or s-parameterized) Wigner function. This allows one to derive a generalized (s-parameterized) Moyal brackets for any dimensions. In the classical limit the s-parameterized Wigner averages of the momentum and its square yield the respective classical values. Interestingly enough,in the latter case the classical Hamilton-Jacobi equation emerges as a consequence of such a transition only if there is a non-zero parameter s.

id: quant-ph/0208056
title: Robust dynamical decoupling with bounded controls
authors: Lorenza Viola, Emanuel Knill
comments: 4 pages, no figures, REVTeX4 style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208056
abstract: We propose a general procedure for implementing dynamical decoupling without requiring arbitrarily strong, impulsive control actions. This is accomplished by designing continuous decoupling propagators according to Eulerian paths in the decoupling group for the system. Such Eulerian decoupling schemes offer two important advantages over their impulsive counterparts: they are able to enforce the same dynamical symmetrization but with more realistic control resources and, at the same time, they are intrinsically tolerant against a large class of systematic implementation errors.

id: quant-ph/0208057
title: Bell Inequalities with Auxiliary Communication
authors: D. Bacon, B.F. Toner
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 157904 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208057
abstract: What is the communication cost of simulating the correlations produced by quantum theory? We generalize Bell inequalities to the setting of local realistic theories augmented by a fixed amount of classical communication. Suppose two parties choose one of M two-outcome measurements and exchange 1 bit of information. We present the complete set of inequalities for M = 2, and the complete set of inequalities for the joint correlation observable for M = 3. We find that correlations produced by quantum theory satisfy both of these sets of inequalities. One bit of communication is therefore sufficient to simulate quantum correlations in both of these scenarios.

id: quant-ph/0208058
title: The generalized partial transposition criterion for separability of multipartite quantum states
authors: Kai Chen, Ling-An Wu
comments: 6 pages, no figures, revtex4 style. Some misprints corrected, minor modificatins to some equations for clarity
journal: Physics Letters A 306 (2002) 14-20
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208058
abstract: We present a generalized partial transposition separability criterion for the density matrix of a multipartite quantum system. This criterion comprises as special cases the famous Peres-Horodecki criterion and the recent realignment criterion in [O. Rudolph, quant-ph/0202121] and [K. Chen, L.A. Wu, quant-ph/0205017]. It involves only straightforward matrix manipulations and is easy to apply. A quantitative measure of entanglement based on this criterion is also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0208059
title: Criterion for distinguishability of arbitrary bipartite orthogonal states
authors: Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208059
abstract: In this paper we present a necessary and sufficient condition of distinguishability of bipartite quantum states. It is shown that the operators to reliably distinguish states need only rounds of projective measurements and classical comunication. We also present a necessary condition of distinguishability of bipartite quantum states which is simple and general. With this condition one can get many cases of indistinguishability. The conclusions may be useful in understanding the essence of nonlocality and calculating the distillable entanglement and the bound of distillable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0208060
title: Inferring superposition and entanglement from measurements in a single basis
authors: Bella Schelpe, Adrian Kent, William Munro, Tim Spiller
comments: Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052316 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208060
abstract: We discuss what can be inferred from measurements on one- and two-qubit systems using a single measurement basis at various times. We show that, given reasonable physical assumptions, carrying out such measurements at quarter-period intervals is enough to demonstrate coherent oscillations of one or two qubits between the relevant measurement basis states. One can thus infer from such measurements alone that an approximately equal superposition of two measurement basis states has been created in a coherent oscillation experiment. Similarly, one can infer that a near maximally entangled state of two qubits has been created in an experiment involving a putative SWAP gate. These results apply even if the relevant quantum systems are only approximate qubits. We discuss applications to fundamental quantum physics experiments and quantum information processing investigations.

id: quant-ph/0208061
title: On the Completeness of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: 17 pages, Extended version of the paper presented at the International Conference on Theoretical Physics, Paris, UNESCO,July 22nd-27th,2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208061
abstract: Quantum cryptography, quantum computer project, space-time quantization program and recent computer experiments reported by Accardi and his collaborators show the importance and actuality of the discussion of the completeness of quantum mechanics (QM) started by Einstein more than 70 years ago. Many years ago we pointed out that the violation of Bell's inequalities is neither a proof of completeness of QM nor an indication of the violation of Einsteinian causality. We also indicated how and in what sense a completeness of QM might be tested with the help of statistical nonparametric purity tests. In this paper we review and refine our arguments. We also point out that the statistical predictions of QM for two-particle correlation experiments do not give any deterministic prediction for a single pair. After beam is separated we obtain two beams moving in opposite directions. If the coincidence is reported it is only after the beams had interacted with corresponding measuring devices and two particles had been detected. This fact has implications for quantum cryptography. Namely a series of the measurements performed on the beam by Bob and converted into a string of bits (secret key) will in general differ, due to lack of strict anti-correlations, from a secret key found by Alice using the same procedure.

id: quant-ph/0208062
title: Exponential Lower Bound for 2-Query Locally Decodable Codes via a Quantum Argument
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 16 pages Latex. 2nd version: title changed, large parts rewritten, some results added or improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208062
abstract: A locally decodable code encodes n-bit strings x in m-bit codewords C(x), in such a way that one can recover any bit x_i from a corrupted codeword by querying only a few bits of that word. We use a quantum argument to prove that LDCs with 2 classical queries need exponential length: m=2^{Omega(n)}. Previously this was known only for linear codes (Goldreich et al. 02). Our proof shows that a 2-query LDC can be decoded with only 1 quantum query, and then proves an exponential lower bound for such 1-query locally quantum-decodable codes. We also show that q quantum queries allow more succinct LDCs than the best known LDCs with q classical queries. Finally, we give new classical lower bounds and quantum upper bounds for the setting of private information retrieval. In particular, we exhibit a quantum 2-server PIR scheme with O(n^{3/10}) qubits of communication, improving upon the O(n^{1/3}) bits of communication of the best known classical 2-server PIR.

id: quant-ph/0208063
title: Pattern recognition on a quantum computer
authors: Ralf Schtzhold
comments: 6 pages RevTeX, 1 figure, several corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208063
abstract: By means of a simple example it is demonstrated that the task of finding and identifying certain patterns in an otherwise (macroscopically) unstructured picture (data set) can be accomplished efficiently by a quantum computer. Employing the powerful tool of the quantum Fourier transform the proposed quantum algorithm exhibits an exponential speed-up in comparison with its classical counterpart. The digital representation also results in a significantly higher accuracy than the method of optical filtering. PACS: 03.67.Lx, 03.67.-a, 42.30.Sy, 89.70.+c.

id: quant-ph/0208064
title: Recovering classical dynamics from coupled quantum systems through continuous measurement
authors: Shohini Ghose, Paul M. Alsing, Ivan H. Deutsch, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs
comments: Published version
journal: PRA 67, 052102, (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208064
abstract: We study the role of continuous measurement in the quantum to classical transition for a system with coupled internal (spin) and external (motional) degrees of freedom. Even when the measured motional degree of freedom can be treated classically, entanglement between spin and motion causes strong measurement backaction on the quantum spin subsystem so that classical trajectories are not recovered in this mixed quantum-classical regime. The measurement can extract localized quantum trajectories that behave classically only when the internal action also becomes large relative to h-bar.

id: quant-ph/0208065
title: Structured Adiabatic Quantum Search
authors: Daria Ahrensmeier, Saurya Das, Randy Kobes, Gabor Kunstatter, Haitham Zaraket
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208065
abstract: We examine the use of adiabatic quantum algorithms to solve structured, or nested, search problems. We construct suitable time dependent Hamiltonians and derive the computation times for a general class of nested searches involving n qubits. As expected, we find that as additional structure is included, the Hamiltonians become more local and the computation times decrease.

id: quant-ph/0208066
title: Quantum scissors: teleportation of single-mode optical states by means of a nonlocal single photon
authors: S. A. Babichev, J. Ries, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 64, 1 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208066
abstract: We employ the quantum state of a single photon entangled with the vacuum (|1,0>-|0,1>), generated by a photon incident upon a symmetric beam splitter, to teleport single-mode quantum states of light by means of the Bennett protocol. Teleportation of coherent states results in truncation of their Fock expansion to the first two terms. We analyze the teleported ensembles by means of homodyne tomography and obtain fidelities of up to 99 per cent for low source state amplitudes. This work is an experimental realization of the quantum scissors device proposed by Pegg, Phillips and Barnett (Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 1604 (1998))

id: quant-ph/0208067
title: Integrals over Products of Distributions from Manifest Coordinate Invariance of Perturbation Expansions of Path Integrals in Curved Space
authors: H. Kleinert, A. Chervyakov
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A17:2019,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208067
abstract: We show that the requirement of manifest coordinate invariance of perturbatively defined quantum-mechanical path integrals in curved space leads to an extension of the theory of distributions by specifying unique rules for integrating products of distributions. The rules are derived using equations of motion and partial integration, while keeping track of certain minimal features stemming from the unique definition of all singular integrals in 1 - epsilon dimensions. Our rules guarantee complete agreement with much more cumbersome calculations in 1- epsilon dimensions where the limit epsilon --> 0 is taken at the end. In contrast to our previous papers where we solved the same problem for an infinite time interval or zero temperature, we consider here the more involved case of finite-time (or non-zero temperature) amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0208068
title: Spin-Mediated Consciousness: Theory, Experimental Studies, Further Development & Related Topics
authors: Huping Hu, Maoxin Wu
comments: 92 pages; expanded content; minor corrections; for additional information, please visit this http URL
journal: Medical Hypotheses (2004) 63(4): 633-646
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208068
abstract: We postulate that consciousness is intrinsically connected to quantum spin since the latter is the origin of quantum effects in both Bohm and Hestenes quantum formulisms and a fundamental quantum process associated with the structure of space-time. Applying these ideas to the particular structures and dynamics of the brain, we have developed a detailed model of quantum consciousness. We have also carried out experiments from the perspective of our theory to test the possibility of quantum-entangling the quantum entities inside the brain with those of an external chemical substance. We found that applying magnetic pulses to the brain when an anaesthetic was placed in between caused the brain to feel the effect of said anaesthetic as if the test subject had actually inhaled the same. We further found that drinking water exposed to magnetic pulses, laser light or microwave when an anaesthetic was placed in between also causes brain effects in various degrees. Additional experiments indicate that the said brain effect is indeed the consequence of quantum entanglement. Recently we have studied non-local effects in simple physics systems. We have found that the pH value, temperature and gravity of a liquid in the detecting reservoirs can be non-locally affected through manipulating another liquid in a remote reservoir quantum-entangled with the former. In particular, the pH value changes in the same direction as that being manipulated; the temperature can change against that of local environment; and the gravity can change against local gravity. We suggest that they are mediated by quantum entanglement between nuclear and/or electron spins in treated liquid and discuss the profound implications of these results. This paper now also includes materials on further development of the theory and related topics.

id: quant-ph/0208069
title: An introduction to quantum game theory
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Derek Abbott
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX; v2 minor changes to the text in light of referees comments, references added/updated
journal: Fluct. Noise Lett. 2 (2002) R175-87
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208069
abstract: The application of the methods of quantum mechanics to game theory provides us with the ability to achieve results not otherwise possible. Both linear superpositions of actions and entanglement between the players' moves can be exploited. We provide an introduction to quantum game theory and review the current status of the subject.

id: quant-ph/0208070
title: KMS States on the Square of White Noise Algebra
authors: L. Accardi, G.G. Amosov, U. Franz
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208070
abstract: It was shown in [AFS00] that there are only three types of irreducible unitary representations theta of sl_2. Using the Schurmann triple one can associate with each theta a number of representations of the square of white noise (SWN) algebra A. However, in analogy with the Boson, Fermion and q-deformed case, we expect that some interesting non irreducible representations of sl_2 may result in GNS representations of KMS states associated with some evolutions on A. In the present paper determine the structure of the *--endomorphisms of the SWN algebra, induced by linear maps in the 1--particle Hilbert algebra, we introduce the SWN analogue of the quasifree evolutions and find the explicit form of the KMS states associated with some of them.

id: quant-ph/0208071
title: Preparation of multi-party entanglement of individual photons and atomic ensembles
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures,minor clarification to the Fig. 3
journal: Phy. Lett. A 320(2003)140-144
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208071
abstract: An experimental feasible scheme is proposed to generate Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) type of maximal entanglement. Distinguishing from the previous schemes, this entanglement can be chosen between either atomic ensembles (stationary qubit) or individual photons (flying qubit), according to the difference applications we desire for it. The physical requirements of the scheme are moderate and well fit the present experimental techinque.

id: quant-ph/0208072
title: Trajectories and Particle Creation and Annihilation in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 11 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2: references added and updated
journal: J.Phys.A36:4143-4150,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208072
abstract: We develop a theory based on Bohmian mechanics in which particle world lines can begin and end. Such a theory provides a realist description of creation and annihilation events and thus a further step towards a "beable-based" formulation of quantum field theory, as opposed to the usual "observable-based" formulation which is plagued by the conceptual difficulties--like the measurement problem--of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0208073
title: Relaxation of quantum states under energy perturbations
authors: Dorje Brody, Lane Hughston, Joanna Syroka
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society London 459, 2297-2316 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208073
abstract: The energy-based stochastic extension of the Schrodinger equation is perhaps the simplest mathematically rigourous and physically plausible model for the reduction of the wave function. In this article we apply a new simulation methodology for the stochastic framework to analyse formulae for the dynamics of a particle confined to a square-well potential. We consider the situation when the width of the well is expanded instantaneously. Through this example we are able to illustrate in detail how a quantum system responds to an energy perturbation, and the mechanism, according to the stochastic evolutionary law, by which the system relaxes spontaneously into one of the stable eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. We examine in particular how the expectation value of the Hamiltonian and the probability distribution for the position of the particle change in time. An analytic expression for the typical timescale of relaxation is derived. We also consider the small perturbation limit, and discuss the relation between the stochastic framework and the quantum adiabatic theorem.

id: quant-ph/0208074
title: Two roles of relativistic spin operators
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: RevTeX 4, 4 pages A discussion on relation of different choices of spin observables to the observed violation of Bell inequalities is added, some misprints corrected and the presentation is clarified
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 67 (2003) 014102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208074
abstract: Operators that are associated with several important quantities, like angular momentum, play a double role: they are both generators of the symmetry group and ``observables.'' The analysis of different splittings of angular momentum into "spin" and "orbital" parts reveals the difference between these two roles. We also discuss a relation of different choices of spin observables to the violation of Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0208075
title: Cooperative three- and four- player quantum games
authors: Ying Jun Ma, Gui Lu Long, Fu Guo Deng, Feng Li, Sheng-Xing Zhang
comments: 7 pages with 3 figures. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 301, Issue 3-4, 117-124 (26 August 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208075
abstract: A cooperative multi-player quantum game played by 3 and 4 players has been studied. Quantum superposed operator is introduced in this work which solves the non-zero sum difficulty in previous treatment. The role of quantum entanglement of the initial state is discussed in details.

id: quant-ph/0208076
title: Complex Extension of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 4 Pages, Version to appear in PRL
journal: EconfC0306234:617-628,2003; Phys.Rev.Lett.89:270401,2002; Erratum-ibid.92:119902,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208076
abstract: It is shown that the standard formulation of quantum mechanics in terms of Hermitian Hamiltonians is overly restrictive. A consistent physical theory of quantum mechanics can be built on a complex Hamiltonian that is not Hermitian but satisfies the less restrictive and more physical condition of space-time reflection symmetry (PT symmetry). Thus, there are infinitely many new Hamiltonians that one can construct to explain experimental data. One might expect that a quantum theory based on a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian would violate unitarity. However, if PT symmetry is not spontaneously broken, it is possible to construct a previously unnoticed physical symmetry C of the Hamiltonian. Using C, an inner product is constructed whose associated norm is positive definite. This construction is completely general and works for any PT-symmetric Hamiltonian. Observables exhibit CPT symmetry, and the dynamics is governed by unitary time evolution. This work is not in conflict with conventional quantum mechanics but is rather a complex generalisation of it.

id: quant-ph/0208077
title: Quantum dynamics as a physical resource
authors: Michael A. Nielsen, Christopher M. Dawson, Jennifer L. Dodd, Alexei Gilchrist, Duncan Mortimer, Tobias J. Osborne, Michael J. Bremner, Aram W. Harrow, Andrew Hines
comments: 19 pages, shortened by 3 pages, mainly cosmetic changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208077
abstract: How useful is a quantum dynamical operation for quantum information processing? Motivated by this question we investigate several strength measures quantifying the resources intrinsic to a quantum operation. We develop a general theory of such strength measures, based on axiomatic considerations independent of state-based resources. The power of this theory is demonstrated with applications to quantum communication complexity, quantum computational complexity, and entanglement generation by unitary operations.

id: quant-ph/0208078
title: Quantum information science as an approach to complex quantum systems
authors: Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 6 pages, an easy read
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208078
abstract: What makes quantum information science a science? These notes explore the idea that quantum information science may offer a powerful approach to the study of complex quantum systems. We discuss how to quantify complexity in quantum systems, and argue that there are two qualitatively different types of complex quantum system. We also explore ways of understanding complex quantum dynamics by quantifying the strength of a quantum dynamical operation as a physical resource. This is the text for a talk at the ``Sixth International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing'', held at MIT, July 2002. Viewgraphs for the talk may be found at this http URL

id: quant-ph/0208079
title: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Implemenations of Remote State Preparation of Arbitary Longitudinal Qubit and Remote State Measurement of a Qubit
authors: Xinhua Peng, Xiwen Zhu, Maili Liu, Kelin Gao
comments: 10 pages, 3 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208079
abstract: A qubit chosen from equatorial or polar great circles on a Bloch sphere can be remotely prepared with an Einstain-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) state shared and a cbit communication. We generalize this protocal into an arbitrary longitudinal qubit on the Bloch sphere in which the azimuthal angle phi can be an arbitrary value instead of only being zero. The generalized scheme was experimentally realized using liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. Also, we have experimentally demonstrated remote state measurement (RSM) on an arbitary qubit proposed by Pati.

id: quant-ph/0208080
title: On the Phase Covariant Quantum Cloning
authors: V. Karimipour, A.T. Rezakhani
comments: Revtex4, 6 pages, 5 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052111 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208080
abstract: It is known that in phase covariant quantum cloning the equatorial states on the Bloch sphere can be cloned with a fidelity higher than the optimal bound established for universal quantum cloning. We generalize this concept to include other states on the Bloch sphere with a definite $z$ component of spin. It is shown that once we know the $z$ component, we can always clone a state with a fidelity higher than the universal value and that of equatorial states. We also make a detailed study of the entanglement properties of the output copies and show that the equatorial states are the only states which give rise to separable density matrix for the outputs.

id: quant-ph/0208081
title: Experimental demonstration of the interferometric complementarity of one- and two-particle interference in a bulk Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ensemble
authors: Xinhua Peng, Xiwen Zhu, Maili Liu, Kelin Gao
comments: 8 pages, 4 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208081
abstract: We analyze an interferometric complementarity between one- and two-particle interference in the general case: $V_{i}^{2}+V_{12}^{2}\leq 1$ $(i=1$, $2)$, and further examine the relation among one-particle interference visibility $V_{i}$, two-particle interference visibility $V_{12}$ and the predication $P_{i}$ of the path of a single particle. An equality $V_{i}^{2}+V_{12}^{2}+P_{i}^{2}=1$ $(i=1$, $2)$ is achieved for any pure two-particle source, which implies the condition of the complementarity relation to reach the upper bound and its relation to another interferometric complementarity between path information and interference visibility of a single particle. Meanwhile, the relationships of the complementarities and the entanglement $E$ of the composite system are also investigated. Using nuclear magnetic resonance techniques, the two-particle interferometric complementarity was experimentally tested with the ensemble-averaged spin states, including two extreme cases and an intermediate case.

id: quant-ph/0208082
title: Quantum retrodiction in open systems
authors: David T. Pegg, Stephen M. Barnett, John Jeffers
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 022106 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208082
abstract: Quantum retrodiction involves finding the probabilities for various preparation events given a measurement event. This theory has been studied for some time but mainly as an interesting concept associated with time asymmetry in quantum mechanics. Recent interest in quantum communications and cryptography, however, has provided retrodiction with a potential practical application. For this purpose quantum retrodiction in open systems should be more relevant than in closed systems isolated from the environment. In this paper we study retrodiction in open systems and develop a general master equation for the backward time evolution of the measured state, which can be used for calculating preparation probabilities. We solve the master equation, by way of example, for the driven two-level atom coupled to the electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0208083
title: Covariant Linear Response Theory of Relativistic QED Plasmas
authors: A. Hoell, V.G. Morozov, G. Roepke
comments: Latex 39 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208083
abstract: We start from the QED Lagrangian to describe a charged many-particle system coupled to the radiation field. A covariant density matrix approach to kinetic theory of QED plasmas, subjected to a strong external electro-magnetic field has recently been developed [1,2]. We use the hyperplane formalism in order to perform a manifest covariant quantization and to implement initial correlations to the solution of the Liouville-von Neumann equation. A perturbative expansion in orders of the fine structure constant for the correlation functions as well as the statistical operator is applied. The non-equilibrium state of the system is given within generalized linear response theory. Expressions for the susceptibility tensor, describing the plasma response, are calculated within different approximations, like the RPA approximation or considering collisions within the Born-approximation. In particular, the process of relativistic inverse bremsstrahlung in a plasma is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0208084
title: Stochastic unraveling of time-local quantum master equations beyond the Lindblad class
authors: Ulrich Kleinekathoefer, Ivan Kondov, Michael Schreiber
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Phys. Rev. E (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 66, 037701 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208084
abstract: A new method for stochastic unraveling of general time-local quantum master equations (QME) which involve the reduced density operator at time t only is proposed. The present kind of jump algorithm enables a numerically efficient treatment of QMEs which are not of Lindblad form. So it opens new large fields of application for stochastic methods. The unraveling can be achieved by allowing for trajectories with negative weight. We present results for the quantum Brownian motion and the Redfield QMEs as test examples. The algorithm can also unravel non-Markovian QMEs when they are in a time-local form like in the time-convolutionless formalism.

id: quant-ph/0208085
title: Quantum entanglement swapping can be tested with type I parametric down conversion
authors: Wang Xiang-bin
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A. We shall NOT do the proposed experiment. We hope any experimental group to do it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208085
abstract: We propose a very simple scheme to test the quantum enatanglement swapping in a priori. In the scheme, we only assume the photon detector can distinguish the vacuum and non-vacuum Fock state rather than the exact Fock number states.

id: quant-ph/0208086
title: Classical information and Mermin's non-technical proof of the theorem of Bell
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208086
abstract: We show that Mermin's reasoning against our refutation of his non-technical proof for Bell-type inequalities is of limited significance or contains mathematical inconsistencies that, when taken into account, do not permit his proof to go forward. Our refutation therefore stands.

id: quant-ph/0208087
title: Quantum Causality, Stochastics, Trajectories and Information
authors: V.P. Belavkin
comments: 67 pages, 120 references. In celebration of the 100th anniversary of the discovery of quanta
journal: Rept.Prog.Phys. 65 (2002) 353-420
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208087
abstract: A history of the discovery of quantum mechanics and paradoxes of its interpretation is reconsidered from the modern point of view of quantum stochastics and information. It is argued that in the orthodox quantum mechanics there is no place for quantum phenomenology such as events. The development of quantum measurement theory, initiated by von Neumann, and Bell's conceptual critics of hidden variable theories indicated a possibility for resolution of this crisis. This can be done by divorcing the algebra of the dynamical generators and an extended algebra of the potential (quantum) and the actual (classical) observables. The latter, called beables, form the center of the algebra of all observables, as the only visible (macroscopic) observables must be compatible with any hidden (microscopic) observable. It is shown that within this approach quantum causality can be rehabilitated within event enhanced quantum mechanics (eventum mechanics) in the form of a superselection rule for compatibility of the consistent histories with the statistically predictable future. The application of this rule in the form of the nondemolition principle leads to the statistical inference of the von Neumann projection postulate, and also to the more general quantum information dynamics for instantaneous events, spontaneous localizations (i.e. quantum jumps), and state diffusions (i.e. continuous trajectories). This gives a dynamical solution, in the form of a Dirac boundary value problem and reduced filtering equations, of the notorious decoherence and measurement problems which was tackled unsuccessfully by many famous mathematicians and physicists starting with von Neumann, Schroedinger and Bohr.

id: quant-ph/0208088
title: How much state assignments can differ
authors: Todd A. Brun
comments: 4 pages LaTeX2e. To appear in proceedings of QCMC 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208088
abstract: The state that an observer attributes to a quantum system depends on the information available to that observer. If two or more observers have different information about a single system, they will in general assign different states. Is there any restriction on what states can be assigned, given reasonable assumptions about how the observers use their information? We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for a group of general density matrices to characterize what different people may know about one and the same physical system. These conditions are summarized by a single criterion, which we term compatibility.

id: quant-ph/0208089
title: Separability of rank two quantum states on multiple quantum spaces
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Xiu-Hong Gao, Xiao-Hong Wang, Zhi-Xi Wang, Ke Wu
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 300(2002)555-562
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208089
abstract: Explicit sufficient and necessary conditions for separability of $N$-dimensional rank two multiparty quantum mixed states are presented. A nonseparability inequality is also given, for the case where one of the eigenvectors corresponding to nonzero eigenvalues of the density matrix is maximally entangled.

id: quant-ph/0208090
title: Measurements of Diffusion Resonances for the Atom Optics Quantum Kicked Rotor
authors: M.E.K. Williams, M.P. Sadgrove, A.J. Daley, R.N.C. Gray, S.M. Tan, A.S. Parkins, R. Leonhardt, N. Christensen
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, iopart.cls, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208090
abstract: We present experimental observations of diffusion resonances for the quantum kicked rotor with weak decoherence. Cold caesium atoms are subject to a pulsed standing wave of near-resonant light, with spontaneous emission providing environmental coupling. The mean energy as a function of the pulse period is determined during the late-time diffusion regime for a constant probability of spontaneous emission per unit time. Structure in the late-time energy is seen to increase with physical kicking strength. The observed structure is related to Shepelyansky's predictions of the initial quantum diffusion rates.

id: quant-ph/0208091
title: Simple optical measurement of the overlap and fidelity of quantum states: An experiment
authors: Martin Hendrych, Miloslav Dusek, Radim Filip, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 310, 95 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208091
abstract: We present the experimental results of measurements of the overlap of both pure and mixed polarization states of photons. The fidelity and purity of mixed states were also measured. The experimental apparatus exploits the fact that a beam splitter can distinguish the singlet Bell state from the other Bell states, i.e., it realizes projections into the symmetric and antisymmetric subspaces of photons' Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0208092
title: Tackling Systematic Errors in Quantum Logic Gates with Composite Rotations
authors: H.K. Cummins, G. Llewellyn, J.A. Jones
comments: 6 pages RevTex4 including 4 figures. Will submit to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 042308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208092
abstract: We describe the use of composite rotations to combat systematic errors in single qubit quantum logic gates and discuss three families of composite rotations which can be used to correct off-resonance and pulse length errors. Although developed and described within the context of NMR quantum computing these sequences should be applicable to any implementation of quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0208093
title: High order correlations of generic pure states of finite-dimensional quantum systems are determined by lower order correlations
authors: N. Linden, W.K. Wootters
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208093
abstract: We show that almost every pure state of multi-party quantum systems (each of whose local Hilbert space has the same dimension) is completely determined by the state's reduced density matrices of a fraction of the parties; this fraction is less than about two-thirds of the parties for states of large numbers of parties. In other words once the reduced states of this fraction of the parties have been specified, there is no further freedom in the state.

id: quant-ph/0208094
title: Decoherence of Semiclassical Wigner Functions
authors: Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 23 pg, 2 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208094
abstract: The Lindblad equation governs general markovian evolution of the density operator in an open quantum system. An expression for the rate of change of the Wigner function as a sum of integrals is one of the forms of the Weyl representation for this equation. The semiclassical description of the Wigner function in terms of chords, each with its classically defined amplitude and phase, is thus inserted in the integrals, which leads to an explicit differential equation for the Wigner function. All the Lindblad operators are assumed to be represented by smooth phase space functions corresponding to classical variables. In the case that these are real, representing hermitian operators, the semiclassical Lindblad equation can be integrated. There results a simple extension of the unitary evolution of the semiclassical Wigner function, which does not affect the phase of each chord contribution, while dampening its amplitude. This decreases exponentially, as governed by the time integral of the square difference of the Lindblad functions along the classical trajectories of both tips of each chord. The decay of the amplitudes is shown to imply diffusion in energy for initial states that are nearly pure. Projecting the Wigner function onto an orthogonal position or momentum basis, the dampening of long chords emerges as the exponential decay of off-diagonal elements of the density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0208095
title: A number-phase Wigner function
authors: Hector Moya-Cessa
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. of Opt. B 5, S339 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208095
abstract: One of the most prominent quasiprobability functions in quantum mechanics is the Wigner function that gives the right marginal probability functions if integrated over position or momentum. Here we depart from the definition of the position-momentum Wigner function to, in analogy, construct a number-phase Wigner function that, if summed over photon numbers gives the correct phase distribution and integrated over phase gives the right photon distribution.

id: quant-ph/0208096
title: Direct measurement of the Q-function in a lossy cavity
authors: H. Moya-Cessa, R. Juarez-Amaro, I. Ricardez-Vargas
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 307, 179 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208096
abstract: We show that the Q-function corresponding to an electromagnetic field in a lossy cavity can be directly measured by means of a simple scheme, therefore allowing the knowledge of the state of the field despite dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0208097
title: Quantum bits and superposition displaced Fock states of the cavity field
authors: L. Arevalo Aguilar, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: Accepted in Revista Mexicana de Fisica
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 48, 423 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208097
abstract: We study the effects of counter rotating terms in the interaction of quantized light with a two-level atom, by using the method of small rotations. We give an expression for the wave function of the composed system atom plus field and point out one initial wave function that generates a quantum bit of the electromagnetic field with arbitrary amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0208098
title: Multipartite Entanglement and Quantum State Exchange
authors: D.T. Pope, G.J. Milburn
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052107 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208098
abstract: We investigate multipartite entanglement in relation to the theoretical process of quantum state exchange. In particular, we consider such entanglement for a certain pure state involving two groups of N trapped atoms. The state, which can be produced via quantum state exchange, is analogous to the steady-state intracavity state of the subthreshold optical nondegenerate parametric amplifier. We show that, first, it possesses some 2N-way entanglement. Second, we place a lower bound on the amount of such entanglement in the state using a novel measure called the entanglement of minimum bipartite entropy.

id: quant-ph/0208099
title: Comment on ``Experimental Simulation of Two-Particle Quantum Entanglement using Classical Fields''
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 1 page, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208099
abstract: We assert that the reported results consitute an empirical counterexample to Bell's theorem

id: quant-ph/0208100
title: Observation of Collective-Emission-Induced Cooling inside an Optical Cavity
authors: Hilton W. Chan, Adam T. Black, Vladan Vuletic
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208100
abstract: We report the observation of collective-emission-induced, velocity-dependent light forces. One third of a falling sample containing 3 x 10^6 cesium atoms illuminated by a horizontal standing wave is stopped by cooperatively emitting light into a vertically oriented confocal resonator. We observe decelerations up to 1500 m/s^2 and cooling to temperatures as low as 7 uK, well below the free space Doppler limit. The measured forces substantially exceed those predicted for a single two-level atom.

id: quant-ph/0208101
title: Design of photonic crystal microcavities for cavity QED
authors: Jelena Vuckovic, Marko Loncar, Hideo Mabuchi, Axel Scherer
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures
journal: Physical Review E, vol. 65, article 016608, January 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208101
abstract: We discuss the optimization of optical microcavity designs based on 2D photonic crystals for the purpose of strong coupling between the cavity field and a single neutral atom trapped within a hole. We present numerical predictions for the quality factors and mode volumes of localized defect modes as a function of geometric parameters, and discuss some experimental challenges related to the coupling of a defect cavity to gas-phase atoms.

id: quant-ph/0208102
title: Experimental implementation of generalized Grover's algorithm of multiple marked states and its application
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Zhiheng Lu, Lu Shan, Zhiwei Deng
comments: 20 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208102
abstract: Generalized Grover's searching algorithm for the case in which there are multiple marked states is demonstrated on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. The entangled basis states (EPR states) are synthesized using the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0208103
title: Stokes operator squeezed continuous variable polarization states
authors: Roman Schnabel, Warwick P. Bowen, Nicolas Treps, Timothy C. Ralph, Hans-A. Bachor, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012316 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208103
abstract: We investigate quantum correlations in continuous wave polarization squeezed laser light generated from one and two optical parametric amplifiers, respectively. A general expression of how Stokes operator variances decompose into two mode quadrature operator variances is given. Stokes parameter variance spectra for four different polarization squeezed states have been measured and compared with a coherent state. Our measurement results are visualized by three-dimensional Stokes operator noise volumes mapped on the quantum Poincare sphere. We quantitatively compare the channel capacity of the different continuous variable polarization states for communication protocols. It is shown that squeezed polarization states provide 33% higher channel capacities than the optimum coherent beam protocol.

id: quant-ph/0208104
title: Quantum mechanics and free will: counter-arguments
authors: M. Lopez-Corredoira
comments: postscript or pdf, 10 pages, to be published in "The Journal of Non-Locality and Remote Mental Interactions"
journal: Neuroquantology, 7(3), 449 [2009]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208104
abstract: Since quantum mechanics (QM) was formulated, many voices have claimed this to be the basis of free will in the human beings. Basically, they argue that free will is possible because there is an ontological indeterminism in the natural laws, and that the mind is responsible for the wave function collapse of matter, which leads to a choice among the different possibilities for the body. However, I defend the opposite thesis, that free will cannot be defended in terms of QM. First, because indeterminism does not imply free will, it is merely a necessary condition but not enough to defend it. Second, because all considerations about an autonomous mind sending orders to the body is against our scientific knowledge about human beings; in particular, neither neurological nor evolutionary theory can admit dualism. The quantum theory of measurement can be interpreted without the intervention of human minds, but other fields of science cannot contemplate the mentalist scenario, so it is concluded that QM has nothing to say about the mind or free will, and its scientific explanation is more related to biology than to physics. A fatalistic or materialist view, which denies the possibility of a free will, makes much more sense in scientific terms.

id: quant-ph/0208105
title: Pseudo-digital quantum bits
authors: Mark Friesen, Robert Joynt, M.A. Eriksson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208105
abstract: Quantum computers are analog devices; thus they are highly susceptible to accumulative errors arising from classical control electronics. Fast operation--as necessitated by decoherence--makes gating errors very likely. In most current designs for scalable quantum computers it is not possible to satisfy both the requirements of low decoherence errors and low gating errors. Here we introduce a hardware-based technique for pseudo-digital gate operation. We perform self-consistent simulations of semiconductor quantum dots, finding that pseudo-digital techniques reduce operational error rates by more than two orders of magnitude, thus facilitating fast operation.

id: quant-ph/0208106
title: Wave packets of a harmonic oscillator with various degrees of rigidity
authors: Qiong-Gui Lin
comments: REVTeX4, 8 pages, no figure
journal: Chin. J. Phys. (Taipei) 40 (2002) 387-394
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208106
abstract: The time evolution of wave packets in a harmonic oscillator potential is studied. Some new results for the most general case are obtained. A natural number, called ``degree of rigidity'', is introduced to describe qualitatively how much the shape of a wave packet is changed with time. Two classes of wave packets with an arbitrarily given degree of rigidity are presented.

id: quant-ph/0208107
title: Rapid Data Search using Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Daria Ahrensmeier, Saurya Das, Randy Kobes, Gabor Kunstatter, Haitham Zaraket
comments: To appear in proceedings of 6th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, M.I.T., July 22-26, 2002. 4 Pages, uses Rinton-P9x6.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208107
abstract: We show that by a suitable choice of time-dependent Hamiltonian, the search for a marked item in an unstructured database can be achieved in unit time, using Adiabatic Quantum Computation. This is a considerable improvement over the O(sqrt(N)) time required in previous algorithms. The trade-off is that in the intermediate stages of the computation process, the ground state energy of the computer increases to a maximum of O(sqrt(N)), before returning to zero at the end of the process.

id: quant-ph/0208108
title: Measurement, Filtering and Control in Quantum Open Dynamical Systems
authors: V.P. Belavkin
comments: A LaTeX version of the old Preprint No.411 (1979), pp 3--38, Physics Institut, Copernicus University, Torun', Poland. (See also this http URL)
journal: Now published in: Rep. on Math. Phys. 45 No3 (1999) 353--420
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208108
abstract: A Markovian model for a quantum automata, i.e. an open quantum dynamical discrete-time system with input and output channels and a feedback, is described. A dynamical theory of quantum discrete-time adaptive measurements and multi-stage quantum statistical decisions is developed and applied to the optimal feedback control problem for the quantum dynamical objects. Quantum analogies of Stratonovich non-stationary filtering, and Bellman quantum dynamical programming in the discrete time are derived. A Gaussian Langevin model of the quantum one-dimensional linear Markovian dynamical system matched with a quantum linear transmission line as an input-output quantum noisy channel is studied. The optimal quantum multi-stage decision rule consisting of a classical linear optimal control strategy and the quantum optimal filtering of the noise is found. The latter contains the optimal quantum coherent measurement on the output of the line and the recursive processing by the Kalman filter. A time-continuous limit of the above model is considered, and the quantum nondemolition measurement, time-continuous filtering and the optimal dynamical programming are found in this limit. All the results are illustrated by an example of the optimal control problem for a quantum open oscillator matched to a quantum transmission line.

id: quant-ph/0208109
title: Beable trajectories for revealing quantum control mechanisms
authors: Eric Dennis, Herschel Rabitz
comments: Latex, 20 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 033401 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208109
abstract: The dynamics induced while controlling quantum systems by optimally shaped laser pulses have often been difficult to understand in detail. A method is presented for quantifying the importance of specific sequences of quantum transitions involved in the control process. The method is based on a ``beable'' formulation of quantum mechanics due to John Bell that rigorously maps the quantum evolution onto an ensemble of stochastic trajectories over a classical state space. Detailed mechanism identification is illustrated with a model 7-level system. A general procedure is presented to extract mechanism information directly from closed-loop control experiments. Application to simulated experimental data for the model system proves robust with up to 25% noise.

id: quant-ph/0208110
title: On the Heisenberg principle, namely on the information-disturbance trade-off in a quantum measurement
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: 13 LeTeX pages, 2 figures, fortschritte.sty. To appear on Fortschritte der Physik. Presented at Quantum Interferometry IV, Trieste, March 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208110
abstract: Common misconceptions on the Heisenberg principle are reviewed, and the original spirit of the principle is reestablished in terms of the trade-off between information retrieved by a measurement and disturbance on the measured system. After analyzing the possibility of probabilistically reversible measurements, along with erasure of information and undoing of disturbance, general information-disturbance trade-offs are presented, where the disturbance of the measurement is related to the possibility in principle of undoing its effect.

id: quant-ph/0208111
title: Entanglement, Quantum Entropy and Mutual Information
authors: V.P. Belavkin, M. Ohya
comments: 23 pages, see also related publications at this http URL
journal: Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 458 (2002) 209--231
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208111
abstract: The operational structure of quantum couplings and entanglements is studied and classified for semifinite von Neumann algebras. We show that the classical-quantum correspondences such as quantum encodings can be treated as diagonal semi-classical (d-) couplings, and the entanglements characterized by truly quantum (q-) couplings, can be regarded as truly quantum encodings. The relative entropy of the d-compound and entangled states leads to two different types of entropy for a given quantum state: the von Neumann entropy, which is achieved as the maximum of mutual information over all d-entanglements, and the dimensional entropy, which is achieved at the standard entanglement -- true quantum entanglement, coinciding with a d-entanglement only in the case of pure marginal states. The d- and q- information of a quantum noisy channel are respectively defined via the input d- and q- encodings, and the q-capacity of a quantum noiseless channel is found as the logarithm of the dimensionality of the input algebra. The quantum capacity may double the classical capacity, achieved as the supremum over all d-couplings, or encodings, bounded by the logarithm of the dimensionality of a maximal Abelian subalgebra.

id: quant-ph/0208112
title: Creating superpositions that correspond to efficiently integrable probability distributions
authors: Lov Grover, Terry Rudolph
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208112
abstract: We give a simple and efficient process for generating a quantum superposition of states which form a discrete approximation of any efficiently integrable (such as log concave) probability density functions.

id: quant-ph/0208113
title: Quantum Computing Simulation Optimizations and Operational Errors on Various 2-qubit Multiplier Circuits
authors: Eric Hsu
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208113
abstract: Since simulating quantum computers requires exponentially more classical resources, efficient algorithms are extremely helpful. We analyze algorithms that create single qubit and specific controlled qubit matrix representations of gates. Additionally, we use the simulator to investigate errors based on different probability distributions and to investigate the robustness of different 2-qubit multiplier circuits in the presence of operational errors.

id: quant-ph/0208114
title: Mediated Entanglement And Correlations In A Star Network Of Interacting Spins
authors: A. Hutton, S. Bose
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208114
abstract: We investigate analytically a star network of spins, in which all spins interact exclusively with a central spin through Heisenberg XX couplings of equal strength. We find that the central spin correlates and entangles the other spins at zero temperature to a degree that depends on the total number of spins. Surprisingly, the entanglement depends on the evenness or oddness of this number and some correlations are substantial even for an infinite collection of spins. We show how symmetric multi-party states for optimal sharing and splitting of entanglement can be obtained in this system using a magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0208115
title: On Entangled Information and Quantum Capacity
authors: V.P. Belavkin
comments: 18 pages. The full version of the Capri-2000 conference lecture, see the QCCM-3 Proceedings by Kluwer/Plenum (2001) pp 325-333, and also this http URL
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 8: 1-18, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208115
abstract: The pure quantum entanglement is generalized to the case of mixed compound states on an operator algebra to include the classical and quantum encodings as particular cases. The true quantum entanglements are characterized by quantum couplings which are described as transpose-CP, but not Completely Positive (CP), trace-normalized linear positive maps of the algebra. The entangled (total) information is defined in this paper as a relative entropy of the conditional (the derivative of the compound state with respect to the input) and the unconditional output states. Thus defined the total information of the entangled states leads to two different types of the entropy for a given quantum state: the von Neumann entropy, or c-entropy, which is achieved as the supremum of the information over all c-entanglements and thus is semi-classical, and the true quantum entropy, or q-entropy, which is achieved at the standard entanglement. The q-capacity, defined as the supremum over all entanglements, coincides with the topological entropy. In the case of the simple algebra it doubles the c-capacity, coinciding with the rank-entropy. The conditional q-entropy based on the q-entropy, is positive, unlike the von Neumann conditional entropy, and the q-information of a quantum channel is proved to be additive.

id: quant-ph/0208116
title: Correspondence between continuous variable and discrete quantum systems of arbitrary dimensions
authors: Caslav Brukner, Myungshik S. Kim, Jian-Wei Pan, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revised version, an example added
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 68, 062105 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208116
abstract: We establish a mapping between a continuous variable (CV) quantum system and a discrete quantum system of arbitrary dimension. This opens up the general possibility to perform any quantum information task with a CV system as if it were a discrete system of arbitrary dimension. The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen state is mapped onto the maximally entangled state in any finite dimensional Hilbert space and thus can be considered as a universal resource of entanglement. As an explicit example of the formalism a two-mode CV entangled state is mapped onto a two-qutrit entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0208117
title: Unconditional Continuous Variable Dense Coding
authors: T.C.Ralph, E.H.Huntington
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 66, 042321 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208117
abstract: We investigate the conditions under which unconditional dense coding can be achieved using continuous variable entanglement. We consider the effect of entanglement impurity and detector efficiency and discuss experimental verification. We conclude that the requirements for a strong demonstration are not as stringent as previously thought and are within the reach of present technology.

id: quant-ph/0208118
title: Universal Quantum Computation using Exchange Interactions and Teleportation of Single-Qubit Operations
authors: L.-A. Wu, D.A. Lidar
comments: 4.5 pages, including 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 050303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208118
abstract: We show how to construct a universal set of quantum logic gates using control over exchange interactions and single- and two-spin measurements only. Single-spin unitary operations are teleported instead of being executed directly, thus eliminating a major difficulty in the construction of several of the most promising proposals for solid-state quantum computation, such as spin-coupled quantum dots, donor-atom nuclear spins in silicon, and electrons on helium. Contrary to previous proposals dealing with this difficulty, our scheme requires no encoding redundancy. We also discuss an application to superconducting phase qubits.

id: quant-ph/0208119
title: Comment on "Nonadiabatic Conditional Geometric Phase Shift with NMR"
authors: LiXiang Cen, XinQi Li, YiJing Yan
comments: RevTeX, 2 pages, Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208119
abstract: We clarify that the nonadiabatic scheme based on a parallel extension of the adiabatic scenario cannot realize the desired goal of quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0208120
title: Evaluating holonomic quantum computation: beyond adiabatic limitation
authors: LiXiang Cen, XinQi Li, YiJing Yan, HouZhi Zheng, ShunJin Wang
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages + 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208120
abstract: The proposal of the optical scheme for holonomic quantum computation is evaluated based on dynamical resolution to the system beyond adiabatic limitation. The time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation is exactly solved by virtue of the cranking representation and gauge transformation approach. Besides providing rigorous confirmation to holonomies of the geometrical prediction that holds for the ideally adiabatic situation, the dynamical resolution enables one to evaluate elaborately the amplitude of the nonadiabatic deviation, so that the errors induced to the quantum computation can be explicitly estimated.

id: quant-ph/0208121
title: Betting on the Outcomes of Measurements: A Bayesian Theory of Quantum Probability
authors: I. Pitowsky
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208121
abstract: We develop a systematic approach to quantum probability as a theory of rational betting in quantum gambles. In these games of chance the agent is betting in advance on the outcomes of several (finitely many) incompatible measurements. One of the measurements is subsequently chosen and performed and the money placed on the other measurements is returned to the agent. We show how the rules of rational betting imply all the interesting features of quantum probability, even in such finite gambles. These include the uncertainty principle and the violation of Bell's inequality among others. Quantum gambles are closely related to quantum logic and provide a new semantics to it. We conclude with a philosophical discussion on the interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0208122
title: Absorption problems for quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno, Takao Namiki, Takahiro Soshi, Aidan Sudbury
comments: 15 pages, small corrections, journal reference added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., Vol. 36, No.1, pp.241-253 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208122
abstract: This paper treats absorption problems for the one-dimensional quantum walk determined by a 2 times 2 unitary matrix U on a state space {0,1,...,N} where N is finite or infinite by using a new path integral approach based on an orthonormal basis P, Q, R and S of the vector space of complex 2 times 2 matrices. Our method studied here is a natural extension of the approach in the classical random walk.

id: quant-ph/0208123
title: Weisskopf-Wigner Decay Theory for the Energy-Driven Stochastic Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: 29 pages in RevTeX, Added Note, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208123
abstract: We generalize the Weisskopf-Wigner theory for the line shape and transition rates of decaying states to the case of the energy-driven stochastic Schr\"odinger equation that has been used as a phenomenology for state vector reduction. Within the standard approximations used in the Weisskopf-Wigner analysis, and assuming that the perturbing potential inducing the decay has vanishing matrix elements within the degenerate manifold containing the decaying state, the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation linearizes. Solving the linearized equations, we find no change from the standard analysis in the line shape or the transition rate per unit time. The only effect of the stochastic terms is to alter the early time transient behavior of the decay, in a way that eliminates the quantum Zeno effect. We apply our results to estimate experimental bounds on the parameter governing the stochastic effects.

id: quant-ph/0208124
title: Bohm's interpretation and maximally entangled states
authors: Thomas Durt, Yves Pierseaux
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208124
abstract: Several no-go theorems showed the incompatibility between the locality assumption and quantum correlations obtained from maximally entangled spin states. We analyze these no-go theorems in the framework of Bohm's interpretation. The mechanism by which non-local correlations appear during the results of measurements performed on distant parts of entangled systems is explicitly put into evidence in terms of Bohmian trajectories. It is shown that a GHZ like contradiction of the type+1=-1 occurs for well-chosen initial positions of the Bohmian trajectories and that it is this essential non-classical feature that makes it possible to violate the locality condition.

id: quant-ph/0208125
title: Qubits from Number States and Bell Inequalities for Number Measurements
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: revtex4, 7 pages, v2: results identical but extended presentation, v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022108 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208125
abstract: Bell inequalities for number measurements are derived via the observation that the bits of the number indexing a number state are proper qubits. Violations of these inequalities are obtained from the output state of the nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier.

id: quant-ph/0208126
title: Optimal discrimination of mixed quantum states involving inconclusive results
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Miroslav Jezek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012321 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208126
abstract: We propose a generalized discrimination scheme for mixed quantum states. In the present scenario we allow for certain fixed fraction of inconclusive results and we maximize the success rate of the quantum-state discrimination. This protocol interpolates between the Ivanovic-Dieks-Peres scheme and the Helstrom one. We formulate the extremal equations for the optimal positive operator valued measure describing the discrimination device and establish a criterion for its optimality. We also devise a numerical method for efficient solving of these extremal equations.

id: quant-ph/0208127
title: Comment on a suggested Kochen-Specker test
authors: R.L. Schafir
comments: 4 pages. This is a comment on [1] Cabello and Garcia-Alcaine, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 1797 (1998), [2] Simon et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 1783 (2000) (quant-ph/0009074)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208127
abstract: A suggestion for an observational test of the difference between quantum mechanics and noncontextual hidden variables theories requires the measurement of a product of two commuting observables without measuring either observable separately. A proposal has been made for doing this, but it is shown to be problematic.

id: quant-ph/0208128
title: Relativistic Doppler effect in quantum communication
authors: Asher Peres, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 10 pages LaTeX
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50, 1165 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208128
abstract: When an electromagnetic signal propagates in vacuo, a polarization detector cannot be rigorously perpendicular to the wave vector because of diffraction effects. The vacuum behaves as a noisy channel, even if the detectors are perfect. The ``noise'' can however be reduced and nearly cancelled by a relative motion of the observer toward the source. The standard definition of a reduced density matrix fails for photon polarization, because the transversality condition behaves like a superselection rule. We can however define an effective reduced density matrix which corresponds to a restricted class of positive operator-valued measures. There are no pure photon qubits, and no exactly orthogonal qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0208129
title: Doppler cooling of an optically dense cloud of trapped atoms
authors: Piet O. Schmidt, Sven Hensler, J?rg Werner, Thomas Binhammer, Axel G?rlitz, Tilman Pfau
comments: 8 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208129
abstract: We have studied a general technique for laser cooling a cloud of polarized trapped atoms down to the Doppler temperature. A one-dimensional optical molasses using polarized light cools the axial motional degree of freedom of the atoms in the trap. Cooling of the radial degrees of freedom can be modelled by reabsorption of scattered photons in the optically dense cloud. We present experimental results for a cloud of chromium atoms in a magnetic trap. A simple model based on rate equations shows quantitative agreement with the experimental results. This scheme allows us to readily prepare a dense cloud of atoms in a magnetic trap with ideal starting conditions for evaporative cooling.

id: quant-ph/0208130
title: Engineering Functional Quantum Algorithms
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 67, 010302, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208130
abstract: Suppose that a quantum circuit with K elementary gates is known for a unitary matrix U, and assume that U^m is a scalar matrix for some positive integer m. We show that a function of U can be realized on a quantum computer with at most O(mK+m^2log m) elementary gates. The functions of U are realized by a generic quantum circuit, which has a particularly simple structure. Among other results, we obtain efficient circuits for the fractional Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0208131
title: Compression of sources of probability distributions and density operators
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 12 pages, 1 eps figure, IEEEtran.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208131
abstract: We study the problem of efficient compression of a stochastic source of probability distributions. It can be viewed as a generalization of Shannon's source coding problem. It has relation to the theory of common randomness, as well as to channel coding and rate--distortion theory: in the first two subjects ``inverses'' to established coding theorems can be derived, yielding a new approach to proving converse theorems, in the third we find a new proof of Shannon's rate--distortion theorem. After reviewing the known lower bound for the optimal compression rate, we present a number of approaches to achieve it by code constructions. Our main results are: a better understanding of the known lower bounds on the compression rate by means of a strong version of this statement, a review of a construction achieving the lower bound by using common randomness which we complement by showing the optimal use of the latter within a class of protocols. Then we review another approach, not dependent on common randomness, to minimizing the compression rate, providing some insight into its combinatorial structure, and suggesting an algorithm to optimize it. The second part of the paper is concerned with the generalization of the problem to quantum information theory: the compression of mixed quantum states. Here, after reviewing the known lower bound we contribute a strong version of it, and discuss the relation of the problem to other issues in quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0208132
title: Topological Protection and Quantum Noiseless Subsystems
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 Pages LaTeX. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 90, 067902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208132
abstract: Encoding and manipulation of quantum information by means of topological degrees of freedom provides a promising way to achieve natural fault-tolerance that is built-in at the physical level. We show that this topological approach to quantum information processing is a particular instance of the notion of computation in a noiseless quantum subsystem. The latter then provide the most general conceptual framework for stabilizing quantum information and for preserving quantum coherence in topological and geometric systems.

id: quant-ph/0208133
title: Entanglement in the One-dimensional Kondo Necklace Model
authors: A. Saguia, M.S. Sarandy
comments: 8 pages, 13 EPS figures. v2: four references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012315 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208133
abstract: We discuss the thermal and magnetic entanglement in the one-dimensional Kondo necklace model. Firstly, we show how the entanglement naturally present at zero temperature is distributed among pairs of spins according to the strength of the two couplings of the chain, namely, the Kondo exchange interaction and the hopping energy. The effect of the temperature and the presence of an external magnetic field is then investigated, being discussed the adjustment of these variables in order to control the entanglement available in the system. In particular, it is indicated the existence of a critical magnetic field above which the entanglement undergoes a sharp variation, leading the ground state to a completely unentangled phase.

id: quant-ph/0208134
title: Optimization of three-dimensional micropost microcavities for cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Jelena Vuckovic, Matthew Pelton, Axel Scherer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 66, article 023808, August 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208134
abstract: This article presents a detailed analysis, based on the first-principles finite-difference time-domain method, of the resonant frequency, quality factor (Q), mode volume (V), and radiation pattern of the fundamental (HE11) mode in a three-dimensional distributed-Bragg-reflector (DBR) micropost microcavity. By treating this structure as a one-dimensional cylindrical photonic crystal containing a single defect, we are able to push the limits of Q/V beyond those achievable by standard micropost designs, based on the simple rules established for planar DBR microcavities. We show that some of the rules that work well for designing large-diameter microposts (e.g., high-refractive index contrast) fail to provide high-quality cavities with small diameters. By tuning the thicknesses of mirror layers and the spacer, the number of mirror pairs, the refractive indices of high and low refractive index regions, and the cavity diameter, we are able to achieve Q as high as 10^4, together with a mode volume of 1.6 cubic wavelengths of light in the high-refractive-index material. The combination of high Q and small V makes these structures promising candidates for the observation of such cavity quantum electrodynamics phenomena as strong coupling between a quantum dot and the cavity field, and single-quantum-dot lasing.

id: quant-ph/0208135
title: Quantum Adiabatic Evolution Algorithms with Different Paths
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann
comments: 9 pp., 2 eps figures, using LaTeX and BoxedEPS macros; email correspondence to farhi@mit.edu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208135
abstract: In quantum adiabatic evolution algorithms, the quantum computer follows the ground state of a slowly varying Hamiltonian. The ground state of the initial Hamiltonian is easy to construct; the ground state of the final Hamiltonian encodes the solution of the computational problem. These algorithms have generally been studied in the case where the "straight line" path from initial to final Hamiltonian is taken. But there is no reason not to try paths involving terms that are not linear combinations of the initial and final Hamiltonians. We give several proposals for randomly generating new paths. Using one of these proposals, we convert an algorithmic failure into a success.

id: quant-ph/0208136
title: NMR molecular photography
authors: Anatoly K. Khitrin, Vladimir L. Ermakov, B. M. Fung
comments: 8 pages plus 3 figures, accepted for publication in the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208136
abstract: A procedure is described for storing a 2D pattern consisting of 32x32 = 1024 bits in a spin state of a molecular system and then retrieving the stored information as a stack of NMR spectra. The system used is a nematic liquid crystal, the protons of which act as spin clusters with strong intramolecular interactions. The technique used is a programmable multi-frequency irradiation with low amplitude. When it is applied to the liquid crystal, a large number of coherent long-lived 1H response signals can be excited, resulting in a spectrum showing many sharp peaks with controllable frequencies and amplitudes. The spectral resolution is enhanced by using a second weak pulse with a 90 phase shift, so that the 1024 bits of information can be retrieved as a set of well-resolved pseudo-2D spectra reproducing the input pattern.

id: quant-ph/0208137
title: Quantum memory: Write, read and reset
authors: Tai Tsun Wu, Ming Lun Yu
comments: RevTeX4, 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208137
abstract: A model is presented for the quantum memory, the content of which is a pure quantum state. In this model, the fundamental operations of writing on, reading, and resetting the memory are performed through scattering from the memory. The requirement that the quantum memory must remain in a pure state after scattering implies that the scattering is of a special type, and only certain incident waves are admissible. An example, based on the Fermi pseudo-potential in one dimension, is used to demonstrate that the requirements on the scattering process are consistent and can be satisfied. This model is compared with the commonly used model for the quantum memory; the most important difference is that the spatial dimensions and interference play a central role in the present model.

id: quant-ph/0208138
title: Maximal entanglement versus entropy for mixed quantum states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Kae Nemoto, Paul M. Goldbart, Paul G. Kwiat, William J. Munro, Frank Verstraete
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022110 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208138
abstract: Maximally entangled mixed states are those states that, for a given mixedness, achieve the greatest possible entanglement. For two-qubit systems and for various combinations of entanglement and mixedness measures, the form of the corresponding maximally entangled mixed states is determined primarily analytically. As measures of entanglement, we consider entanglement of formation, relative entropy of entanglement, and negativity; as measures of mixedness, we consider linear and von Neumann entropies. We show that the forms of the maximally entangled mixed states can vary with the combination of (entanglement and mixedness) measures chosen. Moreover, for certain combinations, the forms of the maximally entangled mixed states can change discontinuously at a specific value of the entropy.

id: quant-ph/0208139
title: A New Proof of the Channel Coding Theorem via Hypothesis Testing in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Tomohiro Ogawa, Hiroshi Nagaoka
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208139
abstract: A new proof of the direct part of the quantum channel coding theorem is shown based on a standpoint of quantum hypothesis testing. A packing procedure of mutually noncommutative operators is carried out to derive an upper bound on the error probability, which is similar to Feinstein's lemma in classical channel coding. The upper bound is used to show the proof of the direct part along with a variant of Hiai-Petz's theorem in quantum hypothesis testing.

id: quant-ph/0208140
title: Detected jump-error correcting quantum codes, quantum error designs and quantum computation
authors: G. Alber, Th. Beth, Ch. Charnes, A. Delgado, M. Grassl, M. Mussinger
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 68, no. 1, July 2003, 012316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208140
abstract: The recently introduced detected-jump correcting quantum codes are capable of stabilizing qubit-systems against spontaneous decay processes arising from couplings to statistically independent reservoirs. These embedded quantum codes exploit classical information about which qubit has emitted spontaneously and correspond to an active error-correcting code embedded in a passive error-correcting code. The construction of a family of one detected jump-error correcting quantum codes is shown and the optimal redundancy, encoding and recovery as well as general properties of detected jump-error correcting quantum codes are discussed. By the use of design theory multiple jump-error correcting quantum codes can be constructed. The performance of one jump-error correcting quantum codes under non-ideal conditions is studied numerically by simulating a quantum memory and Grover's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0208141
title: Decoherence of molecular wave packets in an anharmonic potential
authors: Peter Foldi, Mihaly G. Benedict, Attila Czirjak, Balazs Molnar
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208141
abstract: The time evolution of anharmonic molecular wave packets is investigated under the influence of the environment consisting of harmonic oscillators. These oscillators represent photon or phonon modes and assumed to be in thermal equilibrium. Our model explicitly incorporates the fact that in the case of a nonequidistant spectrum the rates of the environment induced transitions are different for each transition. The nonunitary time evolution is visualized by the aid of the Wigner function related to the vibrational state of the molecule. The time scale of decoherence is much shorter than that of dissipation, and gives rise to states which are mixtures of localized states along the phase space orbit of the corresponding classical particle. This behavior is to a large extent independent of the coupling strength, the temperature of the environment and also of the initial state.

id: quant-ph/0208142
title: Lewenstein-Sanpera Decomposition for Iso-concurrence Decomposable States
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas, M.A.Jafarizadeh
comments: 16 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208142
abstract: We obtain Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition of iso-concurrence decomposable states of $2\otimes 2$ quantum systems. It is shown that in these systems average concurrence of the decomposition is equal to the concurrence of the state and also it is equal to the amount of violation of positive partial transpose criterion. It is also shown that the product states introduced by Wootters in [W. K. Wootters, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 80} 2245 (1998)] form the best separable approximation ensemble for these states.

id: quant-ph/0208143
title: Quantum computation with unknown parameters
authors: J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, J. I. Cirac
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 127902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208143
abstract: We show how it is possible to realize quantum computations on a system in which most of the parameters are practically unknown. We illustrate our results with a novel implementation of a quantum computer by means of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. In particular we show how a universal set of gates can be carried out even if the number of atoms per site is uncertain.

id: quant-ph/0208144
title: Generation of many-particle entanglement in an ion trap by adiabatic ground-state transitions
authors: R. G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208144
abstract: We discuss the creation of many-particle entanglement in an ion trap where all ions are simultaneously coupled to bichromatic laser fields. It is shown that in a time-averaged, coarse-grained picture the system can be mapped onto a spin ensemble with controllable collective interactions. An adiabatic change of laser parameters allows a transfer from separable to entangled eigenstates of the many-particle Hamiltonian. Of particular interest is a transition in the ground state which in some cases corresponds to a quantum phase transition. The influence of decoherence mechanisms can be substantially reduced if at all times a sufficiently large energy gap between the ground state and the first excited state is maintained.

id: quant-ph/0208145
title: Experimental realization of a continuous version of the Grover algorithm
authors: Vladimir L. Ermakov, B. M. Fung
comments: 14 pages plus 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208145
abstract: A continuous, analog version of the Grover algorithm is realized using NMR. The system studied is 23Na in a liquid crystal medium. The presence of quadrupolar coupling makes the spin I=3/2 nucleus a 2-qubit system. Applying a specially designed pulse sequence, the time evolution of the spin density operator is described in an interaction representation which has no external time-dependent radio-frequency fields. This approach is used to implement one instance of the continuous Grover search for the transform of a uniform state to a target state, and the implementation provides a clear physical interpretation of the algorithm. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theory.

id: quant-ph/0208146
title: Comment on "Measuring the Orbital Angular Momentum of a Single Photon"
authors: Haiqing Wei, Xin Xue
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208146
abstract: Optical modes with different orbital angular momentums (OAMs) per photon may be sorted by Mach-Zehnder interferometers incorporated with beam rotators, without resorting to OAM mode converters.

id: quant-ph/0208147
title: Forcing a unitary transformation by an external field: comparing two approaches based on optimal control theory
authors: Jose P. Palao, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208147
abstract: A quantum gate is realized by specific unitary transformations operating on states representing qubits. Considering a quantum system employed as an element in a quantum computing scheme, the task is therefore to enforce the pre-specified unitary transformation. This task is carried out by an external time dependent field. Optimal control theory has been suggested as a method to compute the external field which alters the evolution of the system such that it performs the desire unitary transformation. This study compares two recent implementations of optimal control theory to find the field that induces a quantum gate. The first approach is based on the equation of motion of the unitary transformation. The second approach generalizes the state to state formulation of optimal control theory. This work highlight the formal relation between the two approaches.

id: quant-ph/0208148
title: Qualitative insights on fundamental mechanics
authors: G. N. Mardari
comments: 12 pages. Presented at the Third Feynman Festival, Univ. Maryland, 2006. Proc. forth. in IOP: Conf. Series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208148
abstract: The gap between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics has an important interpretive implication: the Universe must have an irreducible fundamental level, which determines the properties of matter at higher levels of organization. We show that the main parameters of any fundamental model must be theory-independent. They cannot be predicted, because they cannot have internal causes. However, it is possible to describe them in the language of classical mechanics. We invoke philosophical reasons in favor of a specific model, which treats particles as sources of real waves. Experimental considerations for gravitational, electromagnetic, and quantum phenomena are outlined.

id: quant-ph/0208149
title: A semi-quantum version of the game of Life
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Derek Abbott
comments: RevTeX, 6 pages, 4 figures generated by LaTeX. Presented at the 9th International Symposium on Dynamic Games and Applications, Adelaide, Dec. 2000
journal: in Advances in Dynamic Games: Applications to Economics, Finance, Optimization, and Stochastic Control, eds A. S. Nowack and K. Szajowski (Boston: Birkhauser, 2004) pp. 649-61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208149
abstract: A version of John Conway's game of Life is presented where the normal binary values of the cells are replaced by oscillators which can represent a superposition of states. The original game of Life is reproduced in the classical limit, but in general additional properties not seen in the original game are present that display some of the effects of a quantum mechanical Life. In particular, interference effects are seen.

id: quant-ph/0208150
title: Maximal violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for two qutrits
authors: Li-Bin Fu, Jing-Ling Chen, Xian-Geng Zhao
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 022323 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208150
abstract: Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality (in terms of correlation functions) of two qutrits is studied in detail by employing tritter measurements. A uniform formula for the maximum value of this inequality for tritter measurements is obtained. Based on this formula, we show that non-maximally entangled states violate the Bell-CHSH inequality more strongly than the maximally entangled one. This result is consistent with what was obtained by Ac{\'{i}}n {\it et al} [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 052325 (2002)] using the Bell-Clauser-Horne inequality (in terms of probabilities).

id: quant-ph/0208151
title: Spin & Statistics in Nonrelativistic Quantum Mechanics, I
authors: Bernd Kuckert
comments: 15 pages, revised and polished version
journal: Phys.Lett.A322:47-53,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208151
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition for Pauli's spin-statistics relation is given for nonrelativistic anyons, bosons, and fermions in two and three spatial dimensions. For any point particle species in two spatial dimensions, denote by J the total (i.e., spin plus orbital) angular momentum of a single particle, and denote by j the total angular momentum of the corresponding two-particle system with respect to its center of mass. In three spatial dimensions, write J_z and j_z for the z-components of these vector operators. In two spatial dimensions, the spin statistics connection holds if and only if there exists a unitary operator U such that j=2UJU^*. In three dimensions, the analogous relation cannot hold as it stands, but restricting it to an appropriately chosen subspace of the state space yields a sufficient and necessary condition for the spin-statistics connection.

id: quant-ph/0208152
title: Efficient distillation beyond qubits
authors: K.G.H. Vollbrecht, M.M. Wolf
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208152
abstract: We provide generalizations of known two-qubit entanglement distillation protocols for arbitrary Hilbert space dimensions. The protocols, which are analogues of the hashing and breeding procedures, are adapted to bipartite quantum states which are diagonal in a basis of maximally entangled states. We show that the obtained rates are optimal, and thus equal to the distillable entanglement, for a (d-1) parameter family of rank deficient states. Methods to improve the rates for other states are discussed. In particular, for isotropic states it is shown that the rate can be improved such that it approaches the relative entropy of entanglement in the limit of large dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0208153
title: Comparison of unitary transforms
authors: Erika Andersson, Igor Jex, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, revtex4, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208153
abstract: We analyze the problem of comparing unitary transformations. The task is to decide, with minimal resources and maximal reliability, whether two given unitary transformations are identical or different. It is possible to make such comparisons without obtaining any information about the individual transformations. Different comparison strategies are presented and compared with respect to their efficiency. With an interferometric setup, it is possible to compare two unitary transforms using only one test particle. Another strategy makes use of a two-particle singlet state. This strategy is more efficient than using a non-entangled two-particle test state, thus demonstrating the benefit of entanglement. Generalisations to higher dimensional transforms and to more than two transformations are made.

id: quant-ph/0208154
title: Altering the remote past
authors: Alexander Afriat
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208154
abstract: An abstract treatment of Bell inequalities is proposed, in which the parameters characterizing Bell's observable can be times rather than directions. The violation of a Bell inequality might then be taken to mean that a property of a system can be changed by the timing of a distant measurement, which could take place in the future.

id: quant-ph/0208155
title: Secure quantum key distribution with an uncharacterized source
authors: Masato Koashi, John Preskill
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX, minor revisions
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 90 (2003) 057902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208155
abstract: We prove the security of the Bennett-Brassard (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol for an arbitrary source whose averaged states are basis-independent, a condition that is automatically satisfied if the source is suitably designed. The proof is based on the observation that, to an adversary, the key extraction process is equivalent to a measurement in the sigma_x-basis performed on a pure sigma_z-basis eigenstate. The dependence of the achievable key length on the bit error rate is the same as that established by Shor and Preskill for a perfect source, indicating that the defects in the source are efficiently detected by the protocol.

id: quant-ph/0208156
title: Bohmian trajectories and quantum phase space distributions
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 12 pages, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 302 (2002) 261-272
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208156
abstract: We prove that most quasi-distributions can be written in a form similar to that of the de Broglie-Bohm distribution, except that ordinary products are replaced by some suitable non-commutative star product. In doing so, we show that the Hamilton-Jacobi trajectories and the concept of "classical pure state" are common features to all phase space formulations of quantum mechanics. Furthermore, these results provide an explicit quantization prescription for classical distributions.

id: quant-ph/0208157
title: Conditional phase shifts using trapped atoms
authors: A. Gilchrist, G.J. Milburn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208157
abstract: We describe a scheme for producing conditional nonlinear phase shifts on two-photon optical fields using an interaction with one or more ancilla two-level atomic systems. The conditional field state transformations are induced by using high efficiency fluorescence shelving measurements on the atomic ancilla. The scheme can be nearly deterministic and is of obvious benefit for quantum information applications.

id: quant-ph/0208158
title: A suggested interpretation of the quantum theory in terms of discontinuous motion of particles
authors: Rui Qi
comments: 31 pages, no figures. An invited talk in 2000 QinHuangDao Physics Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208158
abstract: We present a theory of discontinuous motion of particles in continuous space-time. We show that the simplest nonrelativistic evolution equation of such motion is just the Schroedinger equation in quantum mechanics. This strongly implies what quantum mechanics describes is discontinuous motion of particles. Considering the fact that space-time may be essentially discrete when considering gravity, we further present a theory of discontinuous motion of particles in discrete space-time. We show that its evolution may naturally result in the dynamical collapse process of the wave function, and this collapse will bring about the appearance of continuous motion of objects in the macroscopic world.

id: quant-ph/0208159
title: Lower bound on the relative error of mixed-state cloning and related operations
authors: A.E. Rastegin
comments: 5 pages, ReVTeX, no figures. The main result is completed. The bibliography is extended and corrected. More explanations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208159
abstract: We extend the concept of the relative error to mixed-state cloning and related physical operations, in which the ancilla contains some a priori information about the input state. The lower bound on the relative error is obtained. It is shown that this result contributes to the stronger no-cloning theorem.

id: quant-ph/0208160
title: Continuous quantum nondemolition feedback and unconditional atomic spin squeezing
authors: L.K. Thomsen, S. Mancini, H.M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, submitted to JPB
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 35 (2002) 4937-4952
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208160
abstract: We discuss the theory and experimental considerations of a quantum feedback scheme for producing deterministically reproducible spin squeezing. Continuous nondemolition atom number measurement from monitoring a probe field conditionally squeezes the sample. Simultaneous feedback of the measurement results controls the quantum state such that the squeezing becomes unconditional. We find that for very strong cavity coupling and a limited number of atoms, the theoretical squeezing approaches the Heisenberg limit. Strong squeezing will still be produced at weaker coupling and even in free space (thus presenting a simple experimental test for quantum feedback). The measurement and feedback can be stopped at any time, thereby freezing the sample with a desired amount of squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0208161
title: Assumptions Underlying Bell's Inequalities
authors: Angel G. Valdenebro
comments: 14 pages. This preprint includes an appendix and some comments not included in the journal version (mainly in section 6), due to length limitations. Comments are welcomed
journal: Eur.J.Phys. 23 (2002) 1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208161
abstract: There are several versions of Bell's inequalities, proved in different contexts, using different sets of assumptions. The discussions of their experimental violation often disregard some required assumptions and use loose formulations of others. The issue, to judge from recent publications, continues to cause misunderstandings. We present a very simple but general proof of Bell's inequalities, identifying explicitly the complete set of assumptions required.

id: quant-ph/0208162
title: Polarization Entangled W State using Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Takashi Yamamoto, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A66, 064301 (2002).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208162
abstract: An experimental scheme for preparing a polarization entangled W states from four photons emitted by parametric down-conversion is proposed. We consider two different configurations and a method of improving the yield by using single photon sources. In the proposed scheme, one uses only linear optical elements and photon detectors, so that this scheme is feasible by current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0208163
title: Deformation quantization in the teaching of quantum mechanics
authors: Allen C. Hirshfeld, Peter Henselder
comments: 20 pages
journal: Am. J. Phys. 70 (5), May 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208163
abstract: We discuss the deformation quantization approach for the teaching of quantum mechanics. This approach has certain conceptual advantages which make its consideration worthwhile. In particular, it sheds new light on the relation between classical and quantum mechanics. We demionstrate how it can be used to solve specific problems and clarify its relation to conventional quantization and path integral techniques. We also discuss its recent applications in relativistic quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0208164
title: Planck's scale dissipative effects in atom interferometry
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 12 pages, plain-TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208164
abstract: Atom interferometers can be used to study phenomena leading to irreversibility and dissipation, induced by the dynamics of fundamental objects (strings and branes) at a large mass scale. Using an effective, but physically consistent description in terms of a master equation of Lindblad form, the modifications of the interferometric pattern induced by the new phenomena are analyzed in detail. We find that present experimental devices can in principle provide stringent bounds on the new effects.

id: quant-ph/0208165
title: Fundamental Limits for Coherent Manipulation on Atom Chips
authors: Carsten Henkel, Peter Kr"uger, Ron Folman, J"org Schmiedmayer
comments: selected papers of the DPG spring meeting `Quantum Optics' (Osnabrueck, Germany, 4-8 march 2002), submitted to Applied Physics B
journal: Appl. Phys. B. 76, 173 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208165
abstract: The limitations for the coherent manipulation of neutral atoms with fabricated solid state devices, so-called `atom chips', are addressed. Specifically, we examine the dominant decoherence mechanism, which is due to the magnetic noise originating from the surface of the atom chip. It is shown that the contribution of fluctuations in the chip wires at the shot noise level is not negligible. We estimate the coherence times and discuss ways to increase them. Our main conclusion is that future advances should allow for coherence times as long as one second, a few micrometers away from the surface.

id: quant-ph/0208166
title: Producing the event ready two photon polarization EPR state with linear optics devices
authors: Wang Xiang-bin
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. A already
journal: Phys. Rev A 68, 042304 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208166
abstract: We propose a scheme to produce the maximally two photon polarization entangled state(EPR state) with single photon sources and the linear optics devices. In particular, our scheme requires the photon detectors only to distinguish the vacuum and non-vacuum Fock number states. A sophisticated photon detector distinguishing one or two photon states is unnecessary.

id: quant-ph/0208167
title: Quantum games and social norms. The quantum ultimatum game
authors: R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 6 pages Latex
journal: Quantum Information Processing 4 (2005) 1-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208167
abstract: The noncooperative Nash equilibrium solution of classical games corresponds to a rational expectations attitude on the part of the players. However, in many cases, games played by human players have outcomes very different from Nash equilibria. A restricted version of quantum games is proposed to implement, in mathematical games, the interplay of self-interest and internalized social norms that rules human behavior.

id: quant-ph/0208168
title: Classical Dynamics as Constrained Quantum Dynamics
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, David J. Rowe
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36, 1683 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208168
abstract: We show that the classical mechanics of an algebraic model are implied by its quantizations. An algebraic model is defined, and the corresponding classical and quantum realizations are given in terms of a spectrum generating algebra. Classical equations of motion are then obtained by constraining the quantal dynamics of an algebraic model to an appropriate coherent state manifold. For the cases where the coherent state manifold is not symplectic, it is shown that there exist natural projections onto classical phase spaces. These results are illustrated with the extended example of an asymmetric top.

id: quant-ph/0208169
title: A perturbative approach to non-Markovian stochastic Schr?dinger equations
authors: Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052105 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208169
abstract: In this paper we present a perturbative procedure that allows one to numerically solve diffusive non-Markovian Stochastic Schr\"odinger equations, for a wide range of memory functions. To illustrate this procedure numerical results are presented for a classically driven two level atom immersed in a environment with a simple memory function. It is observed that as the order of the perturbation is increased the numerical results for the ensembled average state $\rho_{\rm red}(t)$ approach the exact reduced state found via Imamo\=glu's enlarged system method [Phys. Rev. A. 50, 3650 (1994)].

id: quant-ph/0208170
title: Schemes for generating W state of paths and W state of polarization photons
authors: Bao-Sen Shi, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 2 pages, no figure. Revtex. This manuscript was written in Feb. 2002, revised in May, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208170
abstract: In this paper, we give two very simple schemes to produce two kinds of W states, one kind is path W state with one photon and the other is multiphoton photon polarization W state. These schemes just need a common commercial multiport fiber coupler and single photon sources, they are feasible by current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0208171
title: On Pay-off induced Quantum Games
authors: F.M.C. Witte
comments: final version, 13 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208171
abstract: In recent years methods have been proposed to extend classical game theory into the quantum domain. This paper explores further extensions of these ideas that may have a substantial potential for further research. Upon reformulating quantum game theory as a theory of classical games played by "quantum players" I take a constructive approach. The roles of the players and the arbiter are investigated for clues on the nature of the quantum game space. Upon examination of the role of the arbiter, a possible non-commutative nature of pay-off operators can be deduced. I investigate a sub-class of games in which the pay-off operators satisfy non-trivial commutation relations. Non-abelian pay-off operators can be used to generate whole families of quantum games.

id: quant-ph/0208172
title: Entanglement of two atomic samples by quantum non-demolition measurements
authors: Antonio Di Lisi, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 052303 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208172
abstract: This paper presents simulations of the state vector dynamics for a pair of atomic samples which are being probed by phase shift measurements on an optical beam passing through both samples. We show how measurements, which are sensitive to different atomic components, serve to prepare states which are close to being maximally entangled.

id: quant-ph/0208173
title: Non-Perturbative Renormalization Group Analysis in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ken-Ichi Aoki, Atsushi Horikoshi, Masaki Taniguchi, Haruhiko Terao
comments: PTPTeX 20 pages, 27 eps figures, to be published in Prog.Theor.Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 108, 571 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208173
abstract: We analyze quantum mechanical systems using the non-perturbative renormalization group (NPRG). The NPRG method enables us to calculate quantum corrections systematically and is very effective for studying non-perturbative dynamics. We start with anharmonic oscillators and proceed to asymmetric double well potentials, supersymmetric quantum mechanics and many particle systems.

id: quant-ph/0208174
title: Quantum interference with photon pairs created in spatially separated sources
authors: H. de Riedmatten, I. Marcikic, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, changes according to referee's comments, discussions partly rewritten
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208174
abstract: We report on a quantum interference experiment to probe the coherence between two photons coming from non degenerate photon pairs at telecom wavelength created in spatially separated sources. The two photons are mixed on a beam splitter and we observe a reduction of up to 84% in the coincidence count rate when the photons are made indistinguishable. This experiment constitutes an important step towards the realization of quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping with independent sources.

id: quant-ph/0208175
title: Lindbladian Evolution with Selfadjoint Lindblad Operators as Averaged Random Unitary Evolution
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 16 pages, 4 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208175
abstract: It is shown how any Lindbladian evolution with selfadjoint Lindblad operators, either Markovian or nonMarkovian, can be understood as an averaged random unitary evolution. Both mathematical and physical consequences are analyzed. First a simple and fast method to solve this kind of master equations is suggested and particularly illustrated with the phase-damped master equation for the multiphoton resonant Jaynes-Cummings model in the rotating-wave approximation. A generalization to some intrinsic decoherence models present in the literature is included. Under the same philosophy a proposal to generalize the Jaynes-Cummings model is suggested whose predictions are in accordance with experimental results in cavity QED and in ion traps. A comparison with stochastic dynamical collapse models is also included.

id: quant-ph/0208176
title: Damped Quantum Interference using Stochastic Calculus
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 7 pages, 1 ps figure
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50, 975 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208176
abstract: It is shown how the phase-damping master equation, either in Markovian and nonMarkovian regimes, can be obtained as an averaged random unitary evolution. This, apart from offering a common mathematical setup for both regimes, enables us to solve this equation in a straightforward manner just by solving the Schrodinger equation and taking the stochastic expectation value of its solutions after an adequate modification. Using the linear entropy as a figure of merit (basically the loss of quantum coherence) the distinction of four kinds of environments is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0208177
title: Universal Sets of Quantum Gates for Detected Jump-Error Correcting Quantum Codes
authors: G. Alber, M. Mussinger, A. Delgado
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208177
abstract: A universal set of quantum gates is constructed for the recently developed jump-error correcting quantum codes. These quantum codes are capable of correcting errors arising from the spontaneous decay of distinguishable qubits into statistically independent reservoirs. The proposed universal quantum gates are constructed with the help of Heisenberg- and Ising-type Hamiltonians acting on these physical qubits. This way it is guaranteed that the relevant error correcting code space is not left at any time even during the application of one of these quantum gates. The proposed entanglement gate is particularly well suited for scalable quantum processing units whose elementary registers are based on four-qubit systems.

id: quant-ph/0208178
title: Gauge invariance and the Dirac free field energy
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208178
abstract: Dirac field theory is assumed to be gauge invariant. However it is well known that a calculation of the polarization tensor yields a non-gauge invariant result. The reason for this has been shown to be due to the fact that for Dirac theory to be gauge invariant there must be no lower bound to the free field energy. Here an additional proof will be presented to show that this is, indeed, the case.

id: quant-ph/0208179
title: Classicality of spin-coherent states via entanglement and distinguishability
authors: D. Markham, V. Vedral
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Replaced with new version, changes made in line with journal recomendations. Discussions extended and clarrified
journal: Phys.Rev.A 67 (2003) 042113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208179
abstract: We investigate the classical nature of the spin coherent states. In addition to being minimum uncertainty states, as the size of the spin, S, increases, the classical nature is seen to increase in two respects: in their resistance to entanglement generation (when passed through a beam splitter) and in the distinguishability of the states. In the infinite S limit the spin coherent state is a subclass of the optical coherent states (namely the subclass of orthogonal optical coherent states). These states generate no entanglement and are obviously completely distinguishable. The decline of the generated entanglement, and in this sense increase in classicality with S, is very slow and dependent on the amplitude z of the state. Surprisingly we find that for |z| > 1 there is an initial increase in entanglement followed by an extremely gradual decline to zero. The distinguishability, on the other hand, quickly becomes classical for all z. We illustrate the distinguishability of spin coherent states in a novel manner using the representation of Majorana.

id: quant-ph/0208180
title: Experimental demonstration of a controlled-NOT wave-packet gate
authors: B. DeMarco, A. Ben-Kish, D. Leibfried, V. Meyer, M. Rowe, B.M. Jelenkovi?, W.M. Itano, J. Britton, C. Langer, T. Rosenband, D.J. Wineland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208180
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a controlled-NOT (CNOT) quantum logic gate between motional and internal state qubits of a single ion where, as opposed to previously demonstrated gates, the conditional dynamics depends on the extent of the ion's wave-packet. Advantages of this CNOT gate over one demonstrated previously are its immunity from Stark shifts due to off-resonant couplings and the fact that an auxiliary internal level is not required. We characterize the gate logic through measurements of the post-gate ion state populations for both logic basis and superposition input states, and we demonstrate the gate coherence via an interferometric measurement.

id: quant-ph/0208181
title: Experimental demonstration of a technique to generate arbitrary quantum superposition states
authors: A. Ben-Kish, B. DeMarco, V. Meyer, M. Rowe, J. Britton, W.M. Itano, B.M. Jelenkovi?, C. Langer, D. Leibfried, T. Rosenband, D.J. Wineland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208181
abstract: Using a single, harmonically trapped $^9$Be$^+$ ion, we experimentally demonstrate a technique for generation of arbitrary states of a two-level particle confined by a harmonic potential. Rather than engineering a single Hamiltonian that evolves the system to a desired final sate, we implement a technique that applies a sequence of simple operations to synthesize the state.

id: quant-ph/0208182
title: Experimental demonstration of quantum state tomography and qubit-qubit interactions for rare-earth-ion based solid state qubits
authors: J. J. Longdell, M. J. Sellars
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208182
abstract: We report on the implementation of quantum state tomography for an ensemble of Eu$^{3+}$ dopant ions in a \YSO crystal. The tomography was applied to a qubit based on one of the ion's optical transitions. The qubit was manipulated using optical pulses and measurements were made by observing the optical free induction in a phase sensitive manner. Fidelities of $>90$% for the combined preparation and measurement process were achieved. Interactions between the ions due to the change in the ions' permanent electric dipole moment when excited optically were also measured. In light of these results, the ability to do multi-qubit quantum computation using this system is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0208183
title: Improving the Success Probability for Shor's Factoring Algorithm
authors: Gregor Leander
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208183
abstract: Given n=p*q with p and q prim and y in Z_{p*q}^*. Shor's Algorithm computes the order r of y, i.e. y^r=1 (mod n). If r=2k is even and y^k \ne -1 (mod n) we can easily compute a non trivial factor of n: gcd(y^k-1,n). In the original paper it is shown that a randomly chosen y is usable for factoring with probabily {1/2}. In this paper we will show an efficient possibility to improve the lower bound of this probability by selecting only special y in Z_n^* to {3/4}, so we are able to reduce the fault probabilty in the worst case from {1/2} to {1/4}.

id: quant-ph/0208184
title: Quantum testers for hidden group properties
authors: Katalin Friedl, Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha, Pranab Sen
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208184
abstract: We construct efficient or query efficient quantum property testers for two existential group properties which have exponential query complexity both for their decision problem in the quantum and for their testing problem in the classical model of computing. These are periodicity in groups and the common coset range property of two functions having identical ranges within each coset of some normal subgroup. Our periodicity tester is efficient in Abelian groups and generalizes, in several aspects, previous periodicity testers. This is achieved by introducing a technique refining the majority correction process widely used for proving robustness of algebraic properties. The periodicity tester in non-Abelian groups and the common coset range tester are query efficient.

id: quant-ph/0208185
title: Bohmian particle trajectories in relativistic bosonic quantum field theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure; revised, extended, title modified, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.17:363-380,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208185
abstract: We study the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of bosonic relativistic quantum mechanics and argue that the negative densities and superluminal velocities that appear in this interpretation do not lead to inconsistencies. After that, we study particle trajectories in bosonic quantum field theory. A new continuously changing hidden variable - the effectivity of a particle (a number between 0 and 1) - is postulated. This variable leads to a causal description of processes of particle creation and destruction. When the field enters one of nonoverlapping wave-functional packets with a definite number of particles, then the effectivity of the particles corresponding to this packet becomes equal to 1, while that of all other particles becomes equal to 0.

id: quant-ph/0208186
title: Classical Limit of Demagnetization in a Field Gradient
authors: Leon Heller
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208186
abstract: We calculate the rate of decrease of the expectation value of the transverse component of spin for spin-1/2 particles in a magnetic field with a spatial gradient, to determine the conditions under which a previous classical description is valid. A density matrix treatment is required for two reasons. The first arises because the particles initially are not in a pure state due to thermal motion. The second reason is that each particle interacts with the magnetic field and the other particles, with the latter taken to be via a 2-body central force. The equations for the 1-body Wigner distribution functions are written in a general manner, and the places where quantum mechanical effects can play a role are identified. One that may not have been considered previously concerns the momentum associated with the magnetic field gradient, which is proportional to the time integral of the gradient. Its relative magnitude compared with the important momenta in the problem is a significant parameter, and if their ratio is not small some non-classical effects contribute to the solution. Assuming the field gradient is sufficiently small, and a number of other inequalities are satisfied involving the mean wavelength, range of the force, and the mean separation between particles, we solve the integro- partial differential equations for the Wigner functions to second order in the strength of the gradient. When the same reasoning is applied to a different problem with no field gradient, but having instead a gradient to the z-component of polarization, the connection with the diffusion coefficient is established, and we find agreement with the classical result for the rate of decrease of the transverse component of magnetization.

id: quant-ph/0208187
title: No time loophole in Bell's theorem; the Hess-Philipp model is non-local
authors: R.D. Gill, G. Weihs, A. Zeilinger, M. Zukowski
comments: 5 pages, submitted to P.N.A.S; some overlap with our earlier quant-ph/0204169
journal: PNAS 2002, 99: 14632-14635
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208187
abstract: Hess and Philipp have recently claimed that proofs of Bell's theorem have overlooked the possibility of time dependence in local hidden variables, hence the theorem has not been proven true. Moreover they present what is claimed to be a local realistic model of the EPR correlations. If this is true then Bell's theorem is not just unproven, but false. We refute both claims. Firstly we explain why time is not an issue in Bell's theorem, and secondly show that their hidden variables model violates Einstein separability. Hess and Philipp have overlooked the freedom of the experimenter to choose settings of a measurement apparatus at will: any setting could be in force during the same time period.

id: quant-ph/0208188
title: Counter-Intuitive Vacuum-Stimulated Raman Scattering
authors: Markus Hennrich, Thomas Legero, Axel Kuhn, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50, 936-942 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208188
abstract: Vacuum-stimulated Raman scattering in strongly coupled atom-cavity systems allows one to generate free-running single photon pulses on demand. Most properties of the emitted photons are well defined, provided spontaneous emission processes do not contribute. Therefore, electronic excitation of the atom must not occur, which is assured for a system adiabatically following a dark state during the photon-generation process. We experimentally investigate the conditions that must be met for adiabatic following in a time-of-flight driven system, with atoms passing through a cavity and a pump beam oriented transverse to the cavity axis. From our results, we infer the optimal intensity and relative pump-beam position with respect to the cavity axis.

id: quant-ph/0208189
title: Total suppression of a large spin tunneling barrier in quantum adiabatic computation
authors: Alex Bulatov, Vadim Smelyanskiy
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208189
abstract: We apply a quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm to a combinatorial optimization problem where the cost function depends entirely on the of the number of unit bits in a n-bit string (Hamming weight). The solution of the optimization problem is encoded as a ground state of the problem Hamiltonian H_p for the z-projection of a total spin-n/2. We show that tunneling barriers for the total spin can be completely suppressed during the algorithm if the initial Hamiltonian has its ground state extended in the space of the z-projections of the spin. This suppression takes place even if the cost function has deep and well separated local minima. We provide an intuitive picture for this effect and show that it guarantees the polynomial complexity of the algorithm in a very broad class of cost functions. We suggest a simple example of the Hamiltonian for the adiabatic evolution: H(tau) = (1-tau) hat S_{x}^{2} + tau H_p, with parameter tau slowly varying in time between 0 and 1. We use WKB analysis for the large spin to estimate the minimum energy gap between the two lowest adiabatic eigenvalues of H(tau).

id: quant-ph/0208190
title: Cartan Calculus via Pauli Matrices
authors: D. Mauro
comments: 30+1 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A18 (2003) 5231-5260
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208190
abstract: In this paper we will provide a new operatorial counterpart of the path-integral formalism of classical mechanics developed in recent years. We call it new because the Jacobi fields and forms will be realized via finite dimensional matrices. As a byproduct of this we will prove that all the operations of the Cartan calculus, such as the exterior derivative, the interior contraction with a vector field, the Lie derivative and so on, can be realized by means of suitable tensor products of Pauli and identity matrices.

id: quant-ph/0208191
title: A single photoelectron transistor for quantum optical communications
authors: Hideo Kosaka, Deepak S. Rao, Hans D. Robinson, Prabhakar Bandaru, Kikuo Makita, Eli Yablonovitch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Review B, 67 (2003) 045104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208191
abstract: A single photoelectron can be trapped and its photoelectric charge detected by a source/drain channel in a transistor. Such a transistor photodetector can be useful for flagging the safe arrival of a photon in a quantum repeater. The electron trap can be photo-ionized and repeatedly reset for the arrival of successive individual photons. This single photoelectron transistor (SPT) operating at the lambda = 1.3 mu m tele-communication band, was demonstrated by using a windowed-gate double-quantum-well InGaAs/InAlAs/InP heterostructure that was designed to provide near-zero electron g-factor. The g-factor engineering allows selection rules that would convert a photon's polarization to an electron spin polarization. The safe arrival of the photo-electric charge would trigger the commencement of the teleportation algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0208192
title: Comments on Struyve and Baere's paper on experiments to distinguish Bohmian mechanics from quantum mechanics
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208192
abstract: It is shown in detail why the arguments put forward by Struyve and Baere (quant-ph/0108038) against my conclusions are incorrect.

id: quant-ph/0208193
title: Entanglement in particle-detector interactions
authors: Michael Steiner, R.W. Rendell
comments: To appear in proceedings of 2001 ICQI, Rochester NY
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208193
abstract: It is predicted by Schrodinger's equation that entanglement will occur in the interaction between detector and particle. We provide an analysis of the entanglement using the Gurvitz model of double-dot and detector. New results on entangled doubled-dots are provided as well as implications on Quantum Information processing.

id: quant-ph/0208194
title: A lattice of Magneto-Optical and Magnetic traps for cold atoms
authors: Axel Grabowski, Tilman Pfau
comments: 8 pages, including 8 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D 22, 347-354 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208194
abstract: We describe basic periodic trapping configurations for ultracold atoms above surfaces. The approach is based on a simple wire grid and can be scaled to provide large arrays of periodically arranged magnetic or magneto-optical traps. The unit cells of the trap lattices are based on crossed wire segments. By alternating the current directions in the wires of the grid it can be distinguished between 3 basic lattice configurations. As a first demonstration, we used macroscopic wires in a 2 layer configuration to realize the unit cells of the lattices. With this experimental setup, we observe two of the basic unit cells and an array of 2x2 magneto optical traps.

id: quant-ph/0208195
title: The quantum to classical transition for random walks
authors: Todd A. Brun, Hilary A. Carteret, Andris Ambainis
comments: 4 pages RevTeX 4.0 + 2 figures (encapsulated Postscript). Trimmed for length. Minor corrections + one new reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 130602 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208195
abstract: We look at two possible routes to classical behavior for the discrete quantum random walk on the line: decoherence in the quantum ``coin'' which drives the walk, or the use of higher-dimensional coins to dilute the effects of interference. We use the position variance as an indicator of classical behavior, and find analytical expressions for this in the long-time limit; we see that the multicoin walk retains the ``quantum'' quadratic growth of the variance except in the limit of a new coin for every step, while the walk with decoherence exhibits ``classical'' linear growth of the variance even for weak decoherence.

id: cond-mat/0208011
title: Macroscopic entanglement jumps in model spin systems
authors: Indrani Bose, Emily Chattopadhyay
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, Latex, communicated to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0208011
abstract: In this paper, we consider some frustrated spin models for which the ground states are known exactly. The concurrence, a measure of the amount of entanglement can be calculated exactly for entangled spin pairs. Quantum phase transitions involving macroscopic magnetization changes at critical values of the magnetic field are accompanied by macroscopic jumps in the (T=0) entanglement. A specific example is given in which magnetization plateaus give rise to a plateau structure in the amount of entanglement associated with nearest-neighbour bonds. We further show that macroscopic entanglement changes can occur in quantum phase transitions brought about by the tuning of exchange interaction strengths.

id: cond-mat/0208141
title: Berry phase in a non-isolated system
authors: Robert S. Whitney, Yuval Gefen
comments: 4 pages (revTeX4) 2 fig. This version has MAJOR changes to equations
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 190402 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0208141
abstract: We investigate the effect of the environment on a Berry phase measurement involving a spin-half. We model the spin+environment using a biased spin-boson Hamiltonian with a time-dependent magnetic field. We find that, contrary to naive expectations, the Berry phase acquired by the spin can be observed, but only on timescales which are neither too short nor very long. However this Berry phase is not the same as for the isolated spin-half. It does not have a simple geometric interpretation in terms of the adiabatic evolution of either bare spin-states or the dressed spin-resonances that remain once we have traced out the environment. This result is crucial for proposed Berry phase measurements in superconducting nanocircuits as dissipation there is known to be significant.

id: cond-mat/0208166
title: Quantum Kramers' equation for energy diffusion and barrier crossing dynamics in the low friction regime
authors: Dhruba Banerjee, Suman Kumar Banik, Bidhan Chandra Bag, Deb Shankar Ray
comments: 26 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. E 66 (2002) 051105
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0208166
abstract: Based on a true phase space probability distribution function and an ensemble averaging procedure we have recently developed [Phys. Rev. E 65, 021109 (2002)] a non-Markovian quantum Kramers' equation to derive the quantum rate coefficient for barrier crossing due to thermal activation and tunneling in the intermediate to strong friction regime. We complement and extend this approach to weak friction regime to derive quantum Kramers' equation in energy space and the rate of decay from a metastable well. The theory is valid for arbitrary temperature and noise correlation. We show that depending on the nature of the potential there may be a net reduction of the total quantum rate below its corresponding classical value which is in conformity with earlier observation. The method is independent of path integral approaches and takes care of quantum effects to all orders.

id: cond-mat/0208593
title: Exact calculation of the skyrmion lifetime in a ferromagnetic Bose condensate
authors: Yunbo Zhang, Wei-Dong Li, Lu Li, H.J.W. Mller-Kirsten
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, to appear Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A66 (2002) 043622
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0208593
abstract: The tunneling rate of a skyrmion in ferromagnetic spin-1/2 Bose condensates through an off-centered potential barrier is calculated exactly with the periodic instanton method. The prefactor is shown to depend on the chemical potential of the core atoms, at which level the atom tunnels. Our results can be readily extended to estimate the lifetime of other topological excitations in the condensate, such as vortices and monopoles.

id: gr-qc/0208005
title: Satellite E?tv?s Test of the Weak Equivalence Principle for Zero-Point Vacuum Energy
authors: J.W. Moffat, G.T. Gillies
comments: 9 pages. Latex file. No figures. Additional comments about the proposed experiment
journal: NewJ.Phys.4:92,2002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0208005
abstract: An E\"otv\"os experiment to test the weak equivalence principle (WEP) for zero-point vacuum energy is proposed using a satellite. Following the suggestion of Ross for a terrestrial experiment of this type, the acceleration of a spherical test mass of aluminum would be compared with that of a similar test mass made from another material. The estimated ratio of the zero-point vacuum energy density inside the aluminum sphere to the rest mass energy density is ~ 1.6 X 10^{-14}, which would allow a 1% resolution of a potential WEP violation observed in a satellite mission test that had a baseline sensitivity to WEP violations of ~ 10^{-16}. An observed violation of the WEP for vacuum energy density would constitute a significant clue as to the origin of the cosmological constant and the source of dark energy, and test a recently proposed resolution of the cosmological constant problem, based on a model of nonlocal quantum gravity and quantum field theory.

id: gr-qc/0208031
title: Quantum vs stochastic processes and the role of complex numbers
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 30 pages. Invited contribution to Peyresq VII Conference, France, June 2002; a correction of a reference in this version
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.42:1229-1256,2003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0208031
abstract: We argue that the complex numbers are an irreducible object of quantum probability. This can be seen in the measurements of geometric phases that have no classical probabilistic analogue. Having complex phases as primitive ingredient implies that we need to accept non-additive probabilities. This has the desirable consequence of removing constraints of standard theorems about the possibility of describing quantum theory with commutative variables. Motivated by the formalism of consistent histories and keeping an analogy with the theory of stochastic processes, we develop a (statistical) theory of quantum processes. They are characterised by the introduction of a "density matrix" on phase space paths -thus including phase information- and fully reproduce quantum mechanical predictions. In this framework wecan write quantum differential equations, that could be interpreted as referring to a single system (in analogy to Langevin's equation). We describe a reconstruction theorem by which a quantum process can yield the standard Hilbert space structure if the Markov property is imposed. Finally, we discuss the relevance of our iresults for the interpretation of quantum theory (a sample space if possible if probabilities are non-additive) and quantum gravity (the Hilbert space arises after the consideration of a background causal structure).

id: gr-qc/0208045
title: Spatially Averaged Quantum Inequalities Do Not Exist in Four-Dimensional Spacetime
authors: L.H. Ford, Adam D. Helfer, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, minor corrections and added comments
journal: Phys.Rev. D66 (2002) 124012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0208045
abstract: We construct a particular class of quantum states for a massless, minimally coupled free scalar field which are of the form of a superposition of the vacuum and multi-mode two-particle states. These states can exhibit local negative energy densities. Furthermore, they can produce an arbitrarily large amount of negative energy in a given region of space at a fixed time. This class of states thus provides an explicit counterexample to the existence of a spatially averaged quantum inequality in four-dimensional spacetime.

id: gr-qc/0208073
title: Geometric quantization of relativistic Hamiltonian mechanics
authors: G. Sardanashvily
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 42 (2003) 697-704
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0208073
abstract: A relativistic Hamiltonian mechanical system is seen as a conservative Dirac constraint system on the cotangent bundle of a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. We provide geometric quantization of this cotangent bundle where the quantum constraint serves as a relativistic quantum equation.

id: gr-qc/0208085
title: Gravity cannot be quantized
authors: Mario Everaldo de Souza
comments: 6 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0208085
abstract: This work shows that the gravitational field is rather an unusual field and cannot be quantized due to the absence of a fermion charge carrier. When its existence is assumed quite strange results are obtained for its mass. And this means that the graviton does not exist either since bosons act between fermion states.

id: hep-ph/0208032
title: CPT and effective Hamiltonians for neutral kaon and similar complexes
authors: K. Urbanowski
comments: LaTex2e, 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0208032
abstract: We begin with a discussion of the general form and general CP-- and CPT-- transformation properties of the Lee--Oehme--Yang (LOY) effective Hamiltonian for the neutral kaon complex. Next, the properties of the exact effective Hamiltonian for this complex are discussed. Using the Khalfin Theorem we show that the diagonal matrix elements of the effective Hamiltonian governing the time evolution in the subspace of states of an unstable particle and its antiparticle need not be equal at for t > t_0 (t_0 is the instant of creation of the pair) when the total system under consideration is CPT invariant but CP noninvariant. The unusual consequence of this result is that, contrary to the properties of stable particles, the masses of the unstable particle "1" and its antiparticle "2" need not be equal for t >> t_0 in the case of preserved CPT and violated CP symmetries. We also show that there exists an approximation which is more accurate than the LOY, and which leads to an effective Hamiltonian whose diagonal matrix elements posses properties consistent with the conclusions for the exact effective Hamiltonian described above.

id: hep-th/0208113
title: Lightfront holography and area density of entropy associated with localization on wedge-horizons
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: The last two sections have been modified. This is the form in which the paper will be published in IJPA
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0208113
abstract: It is shown that a suitably formulated algebraic lightfront holography, in which the lightfront is viewed as the linear extension of the upper causal horizon of a wedge region, is capable of overcoming the shortcomings of the old lightfront quantization. The absence of transverse vacuum fluctuations which this formalism reveals, is responsible for an area (edge of the wedge) -rearrangement of degrees of freedom which in turn leads to the notion of area density of entropy for a ``split localization''. This area proportionality of horizon associated entropy has to be compared to the volume dependence of ordinary heat bath entropy. The desired limit, in which the split distance vanishes and the localization on the horizon becomes sharp, can at most yield a relative area density which measures the ratio of area densities for different quantum matter. In order to obtain a normalized area density one needs the unknown analog of a second fundamental law of thermodynamics for thermalization caused by vacuum fluctuation through localization on causal horizons. This is similar to the role of the classical Gibbs form of that law which relates Bekenstein's classical area formula with the Hawking quantum mechanism for thermalization from black holes. PACS: 11.10.-z, 11.30.-j, 11.55.-m

id: hep-th/0208186
title: Semiclassical Theory for Two-anyon System
authors: Jin Hur, Choonkyu Lee
comments: 
journal: Ann.Phys.305:28-44,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0208186
abstract: The semiclassical quantization conditions for all partial waves are derived for bound states of two interacting anyons in the presence of a uniform background magnetic field. Singular Aharonov-Bohm-type interactions between the anyons are dealt with by the modified WKB method of Friedrich and Trost. For s-wave bound state problems in which the choice of the boundary condition at short distance gives rise to an additional ambiguity, a suitable generalization of the latter method is required to develop a consistent WKB approach. We here show how the related self-adjoint extension parameter affects the semiclassical quantization condition for energy levels. For some simple cases admitting exact answers, we verify that our semiclassical formulas in fact provide highly accurate results over a broad quantum number range.

id: hep-th/0208210
title: Magnetic monopoles with generalized quantization condition
authors: Alexander I Nesterov, F. Aceves de la Cruz
comments: REVTEX4 file, 6 pages. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A302 (2002) 253-260
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0208210
abstract: Theory of pointlike magnetic monopole with an arbitrary magnetic charge is considered. It is shown that a proper description requires making use of nonunitary representations of the rotation group and the nonassociative generalization of the gauge group and fibre bundle theory.

id: math-ph/0208016
title: Continuity Equation in Nonlinear Quantum Mechanics and the Galilei Relativity Principle
authors: Wilhelm I. Fushchych, Vyacheslav M. Boyko
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Nonlin. Math. Phys., 1997, V.4, N 1-2, 124-128
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0208016
abstract: Classes of the nonlinear Schrodinger-type equations compatible with the Galilei relativity principle are described. Solutions of these equations satisfy the continuity equation.

id: math-ph/0208028
title: Weyl-Underhill-Emmrich quantization and the Stratonovich-Weyl quantizer
authors: J. Plebanski, M. Przanowski, F.J. Turrubiates
comments: 15+1 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys. A33 (2000) 795-804
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0208028
abstract: Weyl-Underhill-Emmrich (WUE) quantization and its generalization are considered. It is shown that an axiomatic definition of the Stratonovich-Weyl (SW) quantizer leads to severe difficulties. Quantization on the cylinder within the WUE formalism is discussed.

id: math-ph/0208031
title: On quantizing semisimple basic algebras II: The general case
authors: Mark J. Gotay
comments: 5 pages, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0208031
abstract: We prove that there is no consistent polynomial quantization of the coordinate ring of a basic non-nilpotent coadjoint orbit of a semisimple Lie group.

id: math-ph/0208047
title: Generalized comparison theorems in quantum mechanics
authors: Richard L. Hall, Qutaibeh D. Katatbeh
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 35, 8727-8742 (2002)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0208047
abstract: This paper is concerned with the discrete spectra of Schroedinger operators H = -Delta + V, where V(r) is an attractive potential in N spatial dimensions. Two principal results are reported for the bottom of the spectrum of H in each angular-momentum subspace H_{ell}: (i) an optimized lower bound when the potential is a sum of terms V(r) = V^{(1)}(r) + V^{(2)}(r), and the bottoms of the spectra of -Delta + V^{(1)}(r) and -Delta + V^{(2)}(r) in H_{ell} are known, and (ii) a generalized comparison theorem which predicts spectral ordering when the graphs of the comparison potentials V^{(1)}(r) and V^{(2)}(r) intersect in a controlled way. Pure power-law potentials are studied and an application of the results to the Coulomb-plus-linear potential V(r) = -a/r + br is presented in detail: for this problem an earlier formula for energy bounds is sharpened and generalized to N dimensions.

id: nlin/0208007
title: Proof of the generalized Lieb-Wehrl conjecture for integer indices larger than one
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: 8 pages, typos fixed, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) L621-L626
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0208007
abstract: Gnutzmann and Zyczkowski have proposed the Renyi-Wehrl entropy as a generalization of the Wehrl entropy, and conjectured that its minimum is obtained for coherent states. We prove this conjecture for the Renyi index q=2,3,... in the cases of compact semisimple Lie groups. A general formula for the minimum value is given.

id: nlin/0208013
title: Crossover of quantum Loschmidt echo from golden rule decay to perturbation-independent decay
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Baowen Li
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures. Final version in published form
journal: Phys. Rev. E v66, 056208 (2002)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0208013
abstract: We study the crossover of the quantum Loschmidt echo (or fidelity) from the golden rule regime to the perturbation-independent exponential decay regime by using the kicked top model. It is shown that the deviation of the perturbation-independent decay of the averaged fidelity from the Lyapunov decay results from quantum fluctuations in individual fidelity, which are caused by the coherence in the initial coherent states. With an averaging procedure suppressing the quantum fluctuations effectively, the perturbation-independent decay is found to be close to the Lyapunov decay. We also show that the Fourier transform of the fidelity is determined directly by the initial state and the eigenstates of the Floquet operators of the two classically chaotic systems concerned. The absolute value part and the phase part of the Fourier transform of the fidelity are found to be divided into several correlated parts, which is a manifestation of the coherence of the initial coherent state. In the whole crossover region, some important properties of the fidelity, such as the exponent of its exponential decay and the short initial time within which the fidelity almost does not change, are found to be closely related to properties of the central part of its Fourier transform.

id: nlin/0208044
title: Short time decay of the Loschmidt echo
authors: Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 67, 016205 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0208044
abstract: The Loschmidt echo measures the sensitivity to perturbations of quantum evolutions. We study its short time decay in classically chaotic systems. Using perturbation theory and throwing out all correlation imposed by the initial state and the perturbation, we show that the characteristic time of this regime is well described by the inverse of the width of the local density of states. This result is illustrated and discussed in a numerical study in a 2-dimensional chaotic billiard system perturbed by various contour deformations and using different types of initial conditions. Moreover, the influence to the short time decay of sub-Planck structures developed by time evolution is also investigated.

id: nucl-th/0208046
title: Effective Operator Treatment of the Anharmonic Oscillator
authors: K.J. Abraham, J.P. Vary
comments: 9 Pages, Extended version with new references. To appear in Phys.ReV.C
journal: Phys.Rev. C67 (2003) 054313
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0208046
abstract: We analyse the one dimensional quartic oscillator using the effective operator methodology of Lee and Suzuki. We reproduce known results for low lying energy eigenvalues.

