id: quant-ph/0209005
title: Decoherence can be useful in quantum walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Ben Tregenna
comments: (Imperial College London) 6 (+epsilon) pages, 6 embedded eps figures, RevTex4. v2 minor changes to correct typos and refs, submitted version. v3 expanded into article format, extra figure, updated refs, Note on "glued trees" added
journal: Pys. Rev. A 67 042315 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209005
abstract: We present a study of the effects of decoherence in the operation of a discrete quantum walk on a line, cycle and hypercube. We find high sensitivity to decoherence, increasing with the number of steps in the walk, as the particle is becoming more delocalised with each step. However, the effect of a small amount of decoherence is to enhance the properties of the quantum walk that are desirable for the development of quantum algorithms. Specifically, we observe a highly uniform distribution on the line, a very fast mixing time on the cycle, and more reliable hitting times across the hypercube.

id: quant-ph/0209036
title: Diffusive-ballistic crossover in 1D quantum walks
authors: Daniel K. Wojcik, J.R. Dorfman
comments: Final version close to published; 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 230602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209036
abstract: We show that particle transport in a uniform, quantum multi-baker map, is generically ballistic in the long time limit, for any fixed value of Planck's constant. However, for fixed times, the semi-classical limit leads to diffusion. Random matrix theory provides explicit analytical predictions for the mean square displacement of a particle in the system. These results exhibit a crossover from diffusive to ballistic motion, with crossover time from diffusive to ballistic motion on the order of the inverse of Planck's constant. We can argue, that for a large class of 1D quantum random walks, similar to the quantum multi-baker, a sufficient condition for diffusion in the semi-classical limit is classically chaotic dynamics in each cell. Using an initial equilibrium density matrix, we find that diffusive behavior is recovered in the semi-classical limit for such systems, without further interactions with the environment.

id: quant-ph/0209060
title: Quantum Lower Bound for Recursive Fourier Sampling
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 8 pages. Revised since appearing in QIC, both to correct an error in the definition of the nonparity coefficient and to emphasize the need to uncompute
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 3(2):165-174, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209060
abstract: One of the earliest quantum algorithms was discovered by Bernstein and Vazirani, for a problem called Recursive Fourier Sampling. This paper shows that the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm is not far from optimal. The moral is that the need to "uncompute" garbage can impose a fundamental limit on efficient quantum computation. The proof introduces a new parameter of Boolean functions called the "nonparity coefficient," which might be of independent interest.

id: quant-ph/0209100
title: Coassociative grammar, periodic orbits and quantum random walk over Z
authors: Leroux Philippe
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209100
abstract: We prove that the combinatorics generated by the quantum random walk on Z can be interpreted from the reading of periodic orbits of the classical chaotic map $x \mapsto 2x mod 1$.

id: quant-ph/0209106
title: Mixing in Continuous Quantum Walks on Graphs
authors: Amir Ahmadi, Ryan Belk, Christino Tamon, Carolyn Wendler
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 3 (2003), 611-618.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209106
abstract: Classical random walks on well-behaved graphs are rapidly mixing towards the uniform distribution. Moore and Russell showed that a continuous quantum walk on the hypercube is instantaneously uniform mixing. We show that the continuous-time quantum walks on other well-behaved graphs do not exhibit this uniform mixing. We prove that the only graphs amongst balanced complete multipartite graphs that have the instantaneous uniform mixing property are the complete graphs on two, three and four vertices, and the cycle graph on four vertices. Our proof exploits the circulant structure of these graphs. Furthermore, we conjecture that most complete cycles and Cayley graphs lack this mixing property as well.

id: quant-ph/0209131
title: Exponential algorithmic speedup by quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Richard Cleve, Enrico Deotto, Edward Farhi, Sam Gutmann, Daniel A. Spielman
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures; minor corrections and clarifications
journal: Proc. 35th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC 2003), pp. 59-68
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0209131
abstract: We construct an oracular (i.e., black box) problem that can be solved exponentially faster on a quantum computer than on a classical computer. The quantum algorithm is based on a continuous time quantum walk, and thus employs a different technique from previous quantum algorithms based on quantum Fourier transforms. We show how to implement the quantum walk efficiently in our oracular setting. We then show how this quantum walk can be used to solve our problem by rapidly traversing a graph. Finally, we prove that no classical algorithm can solve this problem with high probability in subexponential time.

