id: quant-ph/0212094
title: Systematic Analysis of Majorization in Quantum Algorithms
authors: Roman Orus, Jose I. Latorre, Miguel A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures, final version
journal: European Physical Journal D 29, 119-132 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0212094
abstract: Motivated by the need to uncover some underlying mathematical structure of optimal quantum computation, we carry out a systematic analysis of a wide variety of quantum algorithms from the majorization theory point of view. We conclude that step-by-step majorization is found in the known instances of fast and efficient algorithms, namely in the quantum Fourier transform, in Grover's algorithm, in the hidden affine function problem, in searching by quantum adiabatic evolution and in deterministic quantum walks in continuous time solving a classically hard problem. On the other hand, the optimal quantum algorithm for parity determination, which does not provide any computational speed-up, does not show step-by-step majorization. Lack of both speed-up and step-by-step majorization is also a feature of the adiabatic quantum algorithm solving the 2-SAT ``ring of agrees'' problem. Furthermore, the quantum algorithm for the hidden affine function problem does not make use of any entanglement while it does obey majorization. All the above results give support to a step-by-step Majorization Principle necessary for optimal quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0212149
title: Implement Quantum Random Walks with Linear Optics Elements
authors: Zhi Zhao, Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Tao Yang, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0212149
abstract: The quantum random walk has drawn special interests because its remarkable features to the classical counterpart could lead to new quantum algorithms. In this paper, we propose a feasible scheme to implement quantum random walks on a line using only linear optics elements. With current single-photon interference technology, the steps that could be experimentally implemented can be extended to very large numbers. We also show that, by decohering the quantum states, our scheme for quantum random walk tends to be classical.

id: nlin/0212036
title: Crossover from Diffusive to Ballistic Transport in Periodic Quantum Maps
authors: Daniel K. Wojcik, J. Robert Dorfman
comments: Final version to appear in Physica D, Proceedings of the International Workshop and Seminar on Microscopic Chaos and Transport in Many-Particle Systems, Dresden, 2002; corrected a minor error in section 3.1, new section 4.3
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0212036
abstract: We derive an expression for the mean square displacement of a particle whose motion is governed by a uniform, periodic, quantum multi-baker map. The expression is a function of both time, $t$, and Planck's constant, $\hbar$, and allows a study of both the long time, $t\to\infty$, and semi-classical, $\hbar\to 0$, limits taken in either order. We evaluate the expression using random matrix theory as well as numerically, and observe good agreement between both sets of results. The long time limit shows that particle transport is generically ballistic, for any fixed value of Planck's constant. However, for fixed times, the semi-classical limit leads to diffusion. The mean square displacement for non-zero Planck's constant, and finite time, exhibits a crossover from diffusive to ballistic motion, with crossover time on the order of the inverse of Planck's constant. We argue, that these results are generic for a large class of 1D quantum random walks, similar to the quantum multi-baker, and that a sufficient condition for diffusion in the semi-classical limit is classically chaotic dynamics in each cell. Some connections between our work and the other literature on quantum random walks are discussed. These walks are of some interest in the theory of quantum computation.

