id: quant-ph/0301001
title: Contextual objectivity and quantum holism
authors: Philippe Grangier
comments: v2: 4 pages, no figure, one section added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301001
abstract: In our effort to restate a "realistic" approach to quantum mechanics, that would fully acknowledge that local realism is untenable, we add a few more questions and answers to the list presented in quant-ph/0203131. We also suggest to replace the very misleading wording "quantum non-locality" by "quantum holism", that conveys a much better intuitive idea of the physical content of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0301002
title: The direction of time: from the global arrow to the local arrow
authors: Mario Castagnino, Luis Lara, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.42:2487-2504,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301002
abstract: In this paper we discuss the traditional approaches to the problem of the arrow of time. On the basis of this discussion we adopt a global and non-entropic approach, according to which the arrow of time has a global origin and is an intrinsic, geometrical feature of space-time. Finally, we show how the global arrow is translated into local terms as a local time-asymmetric flux of energy

id: quant-ph/0301003
title: Explicit, analytical solution of scaling quantum graphs
authors: Yu. Dabaghian, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301003
abstract: Based on earlier work on regular quantum graphs we show that a large class of scaling quantum graphs with arbitrary topology are explicitly analytically solvable. This is surprising since quantum graphs are excellent models of quantum chaos and quantum chaotic systems are not usually explicitly analytically solvable.

id: quant-ph/0301004
title: The G?delizing Quantum-Mechanical Automata
authors: A. V. Yurov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301004
abstract: Using Albert results we argue that we don't need new physics to understand G\"odelization. Albert quantum automaton can "understand" both a formal system and a G\"odel proposition which can't be obtained within this system. There are two significant conclusions. The first speaks "against Penrose" whereas the second speaks for him.

id: quant-ph/0301005
title: Quantum dissipation induced noncommutative geometry
authors: S. Sivasubramanian, Y.N. Srivastava, G. Vitiello, A. Widom
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A311 (2003) 97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301005
abstract: The quantum statistical dynamics of a position coordinate x coupled to a reservoir requires theoretically two copies of the position coordinate within the reduced density matrix description. One coordinate moves forward in time while the other coordinate moves backward in time. It is shown that quantum dissipation induces, in the plane of the forward and backward motions, a noncommutative geometry. The noncommutative geometric plane is a consequence of a quantum dissipation induced phase interference which is closely analogous to the Aharanov-Bohm effect.

id: quant-ph/0301006
title: Targeting qubit states using open-loop control
authors: C. D'Helon, V. Protopopescu, R. Perez
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 36(25) 7129, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301006
abstract: We present an open-loop (bang-bang) scheme which drives an open two-level quantum system to any target state, while maintaining quantum coherence throughout the process. The control is illustrated by a realistic simulation for both adiabatic and thermal decoherence. In the thermal decoherence regime, the control achieved by the proposed scheme is qualitatively similar, at the ensemble level, to the control realized by the quantum feedback scheme of Wang, Wiseman, and Milburn [Phys. Rev. A 64, #063810 (2001)] for the spontaneous emission of a two-level atom. The performance of the open-loop scheme compares favorably against the quantum feedback scheme with respect to robustness, target fidelity and transition times.

id: quant-ph/0301007
title: Constant-time solution to the Global Optimization Problem using Bruschweiler's ensemble search algorithm
authors: V. Protopopescu, C. D'Helon, J. Barhen
comments: 14 pages, 0 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 36(24) L399, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301007
abstract: A constant-time solution of the continuous Global Optimization Problem (GOP) is obtained by using an ensemble algorithm. We show that under certain assumptions, the solution can be guaranteed by mapping the GOP onto a discrete unsorted search problem, whereupon Bruschweiler's ensemble search algorithm is applied. For adequate sensitivities of the measurement technique, the query complexity of the ensemble search algorithm depends linearly on the size of the function's domain. Advantages and limitations of an eventual NMR implementation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0301008
title: On the Role of Locality Condition in Bell's Theorem
authors: Habibollah Razmi
comments: 6 pages, no figure, To appear in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: IJQI 1 (2003) 25-28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301008
abstract: For a special stochastic realistic model in certain spin-correlation experiments and without imposing the locality condition, an inequality is found. Then, it is shown that quantum theory is able (is possible) to violate this inequality. This shows that, irrelevance of the locality condition, the quantum entanglement of the spin singlet-state is the reason for the violation of Bell's inequality in Bell's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0301009
title: Quantum memory for individual polarization photon
authors: G. P. Guo, G. C. Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures,add some discussions
journal: Phys. Lett. A 318337 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301009
abstract: Here we present an experimentally feasible quantum memory for individual polarization photon with long-lived atomic ensembles excitations. Based a process similar to teleportation, the memory is reversible. And the storage information can be effortlessly read out and transferred back to photon. Although it successes with only a probability of 1/4, it is expected valuable in various quantum information processing, especially those cases where polarized photons are employed. The physical requirements are moderate and fit the presest technique.

id: quant-ph/0301010
title: Observer Created Violation of Bell's Inequalities
authors: Helmut Dersch
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301010
abstract: Local systems may appear to violate Bell's inequalities if they are observed through suitable filters. The nonlocality leading to violation is outside the system and comprises the observer comparing the outcomes of the typical two wing Bell experiment. An example based on a well known gedanken experiment by Mermin is presented, and implications for the interpretation of Bell tests are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0301011
title: Additivity of Entanglement of Formation of Two Three-level-antisymmetric States
authors: Toshiyuki Shimono
comments: 6 pages, 1 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 1(2), 259-268 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301011
abstract: Quantum entanglement is the quantum information processing resource. Thus it is of importance to understand how much of entanglement particular quantum states have, and what kinds of laws entanglement and also transformation between entanglement states subject to. Therefore, it is essentialy important to use proper measures of entanglement which have nice properties. One of the major candidates of such measures is "entanglement of formation", and whether this measurement is additive or not is an important open problem. We aim at certain states so-called "antisymmetric states" for which the additivity are not solved as far as we know, and show the additivity for two of them. Keywords: quantum entanglement, entanglement of formation, additivity of entanglement measures, antisymmetric states.

id: quant-ph/0301012
title: A Quantum Computer Architecture using Nonlocal Interactions
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Daegene Song, Carl J. Williams
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Slight modifications to satisfy referee, 2 new references, modified acknowledgement. This draft to appear in PRA Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301012
abstract: Several authors have described the basic requirements essential to build a scalable quantum computer. Because many physical implementation schemes for quantum computing rely on nearest neighbor interactions, there is a hidden quantum communication overhead to connect distant nodes of the computer. In this paper we propose a physical solution to this problem which, together with the key building blocks, provides a pathway to a scalable quantum architecture using nonlocal interactions. Our solution involves the concept of a quantum bus that acts as a refreshable entanglement resource to connect distant memory nodes providing an architectural concept for quantum computers analogous to the von Neumann architecture for classical computers.

id: quant-ph/0301013
title: A Practical Quantum Mechanism for the Public Goods Game
authors: Kay-Yut Chen, Tad Hogg, Raymond Beausoleil
comments: 9 pages, revtex4
journal: Quantum Information Processing 1:449-469 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301013
abstract: Quantum generalizations of conventional games broaden the range of available strategies, which can help improve outcomes for the participants. With many players, such quantum games can involve entanglement among many states which is difficult to implement, especially if the states must be communicated over some distance. This paper describes a quantum mechanism for the economically significant $n$-player public goods game that requires only two-particle entanglement and is thus much easier to implement than more general quantum mechanisms. In spite of the large temptation to free ride on the efforts of others in this game, two-particle entanglement is sufficient to give near optimal expected payoff when players use a simple mixed strategy for which no player can benefit by making different choices. This mechanism can also address some heterogeneous preferences among the players.

id: quant-ph/0301014
title: Requirements for compatibility between local and multipartite quantum states
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, reference added
journal: Quantum Inf. and Comp., Vol. 4, No. 1 (2004) pp.012-026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301014
abstract: We consider a partial trace transformation which maps a multipartite quantum state to collection of local density matrices. We call this collection a mean field state. The necessary and sufficient conditions under which a mean field state is compatible with at least one multipartite pure state are found for the system of $n$ qubits and for the tripartite system with the Hilbert space of dimension 2x2x4. Compatibility of mean field states with more general classes of multipartite quantum states is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0301015
title: Lower Bound on Entanglement of Formation for the Qubit-Qudit System
authors: Edward Gerjuoy
comments: 14 pages, 0 Figures, 0 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301015
abstract: Wootters [PRL 80, 2245 (1998)] has derived a closed formula for the entanglement of formation (EOF) of an arbitrary mixed state in a system of two qubits. There is no known closed form expression for the EOF of an arbitrary mixed state in any system more complicated than two qubits. This paper, via a relatively straightforward generalization of Wootters' original derivation, obtains a closed form lower bound on the EOF of an arbitary mixed state of a system composed of a qubit and a qudit (a d-level quantum system, with d greater than or equal to 3). The derivation of the lower bound is detailed for a system composed of a qubit and a qutrit (d = 3); the generalization to d greater than 3 then follows readily.

id: quant-ph/0301016
title: Uncollapsing the wave function
authors: John Ashmead
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301016
abstract: The space quantization induced by a Stern-Gerlach experiment is normally explained by invoking the ``collapse of the wave function.'' This is a rather mysterious idea; it would be better to explain the Stern-Gerlach results without using it. We re-analyze the Stern-Gerlach experiment using path integrals. We find if we model explicitly the finite width of the beam, coherent interference within the beam itself provides the space quantization -- without need to invoke the collapse. If we insist on employing only wave functions with the space and spin parts kept forcibly disentangled, we recreate the need to invoke the collapse. The collapse-free approach makes more specific predictions about the shape and position of the scattered beams; if the interaction region has finite length, these may be testable. Pending experimental disambiguation, the chief arguments in favor of the collapse-free approach are that it is simpler and less mysterious, has no adjustable parameters, and requires the invocation of no new forces.

id: quant-ph/0301017
title: On Interferometric Duality in Multibeam Experiments
authors: G. Bimonte, R. Musto
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure, substantial changes in the text, new material has been added in Section 3. Version to appear in J.Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A36:11481-11502,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301017
abstract: We critically analyze the problem of formulating duality between fringe visibility and which-way information, in multibeam interference experiments. We show that the traditional notion of visibility is incompatible with any intuitive idea of complementarity, but for the two-beam case. We derive a number of new inequalities, not present in the two-beam case, one of them coinciding with a recently proposed multibeam generalization of the inequality found by Greenberger and YaSin. We show, by an explicit procedure of optimization in a three-beam case, that suggested generalizations of Englert's inequality, do not convey, differently from the two-beam case, the idea of complementarity, according to which an increase of visibility is at the cost of a loss in path information, and viceversa.

id: quant-ph/0301018
title: Thermally induced spin flips above an atom chip
authors: M. P. A. Jones, C. J. Vale, D. Sahagun, B. V. Hall, E. A. Hinds
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301018
abstract: We describe an experiment in which Bose-Einstein condensates and cold atom clouds are held by a microscopic magnetic trap near a room temperature metal wire 500 $\mu$m in diameter. The ensemble of atoms breaks into fragments when it is brought close to the ceramic-coated aluminum surface of the wire, showing that fragmentation is not peculiar to copper surfaces. The lifetime for atoms to remain in the microtrap is measured over a range of distances down to $27 \mu$m from the surface of the metal. We observe the loss of atoms from the microtrap due to spin flips. These are induced by radio-frequency thermal fluctuations of the magnetic field near the surface, as predicted but not previously observed.

id: quant-ph/0301019
title: Robust quantum information processing with techniques from liquid state NMR
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 11 pages including 4 figures in rspublic format. Article submitted for proceeding of the Discussion Meeting on Practical Realisations of Quantum Information Processing, held at the Royal Society, Nov. 13-14, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301019
abstract: While Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) techniques are unlikely to lead to a large scale quantum computer they are well suited to investigating basic phenomena and developing new techniques. Indeed it is likely that many existing NMR techniques will find uses in quantum information processing. Here I describe how the composite rotation (composite pulse) method can be used to develop quantum logic gates which are robust against systematic errors.

id: quant-ph/0301020
title: Understanding Permutation Symmetry
authors: S. R. D. French, D. P. Rickles
comments: To appear in "Symmetries in physics: philosophical reflections", edited by Katherine Brading and Elena Castellani, Cambridge University Press, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301020
abstract: \noindent In our contribution to this volume we deal with \emph{discrete} symmetries: these are symmetries based upon groups with a discrete set of elements (generally a set of elements that can be enumerated by the positive integers). In physics we find that discrete symmetries frequently arise as `internal', non-spacetime symmetries. Permutation symmetry is such a discrete symmetry arising as the mathematical basis underlying the statistical behaviour of ensembles of certain types of indistinguishable quantum particle (e.g., fermions and bosons). Roughly speaking, if such an ensemble is invariant under a permutation of its constituent particles (i.e., permutation symmetric) then one doesn't `count' those permutations which merely `exchange' indistinguishable particles; rather, the exchanged state is identified with the original state. This principle of invariance is generally called the `indistinguishability postulate' [IP], but we prefer to use the term `permutation invariance' [PI]. It is this symmetry principle that is typically taken to underpin and explain the nature of (fermionic and bosonic) quantum statistics (although, as we shall see, this characterisation is not uncontentious), and it is this principle that has important consequences regarding the metaphysics of identity and individuality for particles exhibiting such statistical behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0301021
title: A note on the Lorentz force, magnetic charges and the Casimir effect
authors: C. Farina, F. C. Santos, A. C. Tort
comments: Simple latex file: six pages, no figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 24 (2003), N5-N9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301021
abstract: We show that in order to account for the repulsive Casimir effect in the parallel plate geometry in terms of the quantum version of the Lorentz force, virtual surface densities of magnetic charges and currents must be introduced. The quantum version of the Lorentz force expressed in terms of the correlators of the electric and magnetic fields for planar geometries yields then correctly the Casimir pressure.

id: quant-ph/0301022
title: Transmission through a potential barrier in quantum mechanics of multiple degrees of freedom: complex way to the top
authors: F. Bezrukov, D. Levkov
comments: 21 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301022
abstract: A semiclassical method for the calculation of tunneling exponent in systems with many degrees of freedom is developed. We find that corresponding classical solution as function of energy form several branches joint by bifurcation points. A regularization technique is proposed, which enables one to choose physically relevant branches of solutions everywhere in the classically forbidden region and also in the allowed region. At relatively high energy the physical branch describes tunneling via creation of a classical state, close to the top of the barrier. The method is checked against exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation in a quantum mechanical system of two degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0301023
title: Adiabatic Quantum State Generation and Statistical Zero Knowledge
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 35 pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301023
abstract: The design of new quantum algorithms has proven to be an extremely difficult task. This paper considers a different approach to the problem, by studying the problem of 'quantum state generation'. This approach provides intriguing links between many different areas: quantum computation, adiabatic evolution, analysis of spectral gaps and groundstates of Hamiltonians, rapidly mixing Markov chains, the complexity class statistical zero knowledge, quantum random walks, and more. We first show that many natural candidates for quantum algorithms can be cast as a state generation problem. We define a paradigm for state generation, called 'adiabatic state generation' and develop tools for adiabatic state generation which include methods for implementing very general Hamiltonians and ways to guarantee non negligible spectral gaps. We use our tools to prove that adiabatic state generation is equivalent to state generation in the standard quantum computing model, and finally we show how to apply our techniques to generate interesting superpositions related to Markov chains.

id: quant-ph/0301024
title: Objectivism and Irreversibility in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Takuya Okabe
comments: 8 pages, submitted to Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301024
abstract: A hypothetical formulation of quantum mechanics is presented so as to reconcile it with macro-realism. On the analogy drawn from thermodynamics, an objective description of wave packet reduction is postulated, in which a characteristic energy scale and a time scale are introduced to separate the quantum and classical conceptions.

id: quant-ph/0301025
title: Quantum Guessing via Deutsch-Jozsa
authors: Michael Nathanson
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301025
abstract: We examine the "Guessing Secrets" problem arising in internet routing, in which the goal is to discover two or more objects from a known finite set. We propose a quantum algorithm using O(1) calls to an O(logN) oracle. This improves upon the best known classical result, which uses O(logN) questions and requires an additional O(logN^3) steps to produce the answer. In showing the possibilities of this algorithm, we extend the types of questions and function oracles that the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm can be used to solve.

id: quant-ph/0301026
title: Purification through Zeno-like Measurements
authors: Hiromichi Nakazato, Tomoko Takazawa, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure; to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2003)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 060401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301026
abstract: A series of frequent measurements on a quantum system (Zeno-like measurements) is shown to result in the ``purification'' of another quantum system in interaction with the former. Even though the measurements are performed on the former system, their effect drives the latter into a pure state, irrespectively of its initial (mixed) state, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0301027
title: Quantum measurements and Kolmogorovian probability theory
authors: D. A. Slavnov
comments: 8 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301027
abstract: We establish connections between the requirement of measurability of a probability space and the principle of complimentarity in quantum mechanics. It is shown that measurability of a probability space implies the dependence of results of quantum measurement not only on the properties of a quantum object under consideration, but also on the classical characteristics of the measuring device which is used. We show that if one takes into account the requirement of measurability in a quantum case, the Bell inequality does not follow from the hypothesis about the existence of an objective reality.

id: quant-ph/0301028
title: Efficient sharing of a continuous-variable quantum secret
authors: Tomas Tyc, David J. Rowe, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J Phys A 36, 7625 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301028
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for sharing a continuous variable quantum secret using passive optical interferometry and squeezers: this efficiency is achieved by showing that a maximum of two squeezers is required to replicate the secret state, and we obtain the cheapest configuration in terms of total squeezing cost. Squeezing is a cost for the dealer of the secret as well as for the receivers, and we quantify limitations to the fidelity of the replicated secret state in terms of the squeezing employed by the dealer.

id: quant-ph/0301029
title: Scheme for the implementation of a universal quantum cloning machine via cavity-assisted atomic collisions in cavity QED
authors: XuBo Zou, K. Pahlke, W. Mathis
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301029
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement the $1\to2$ universal quantum cloning machine of Buzek et.al [Phys. Rev.A 54, 1844(1996)] in the context of cavity QED. The scheme requires cavity-assisted collision processes between atoms, which cross through nonresonant cavity fields in the vacuum states. The cavity fields are only virtually excited to face the decoherence problem. That's why the requirements on the cavity quality factor can be loosened.

id: quant-ph/0301030
title: Perfect Test of Entanglement for Two-level Systems
authors: Sixia Yu, Jian-Wei Pan, Zeng-Bing Chen, Yong-De Zhang
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301030
abstract: A 3-setting Bell-type inequality enforced by the indeterminacy relation of complementary local observables is proposed as an experimental test of the 2-qubit entanglement. The proposed inequality has an advantage of being a sufficient and necessary criterion of the separability. Therefore any entangled 2-qubit state cannot escape the detection by this kind of tests. It turns out that the orientation of the local testing observables plays a crucial role in our perfect detection of the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0301031
title: Dissipation, Emergent Quantization and Quantum Fluctuations
authors: M.Blasone, P.Jizba, G.Vitiello
comments: Invited talk at the International Workshop DICE2002 "Decoherence, Information, Complexity and Entropy" - Piombino (Tuscany), September 2-6, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301031
abstract: We review some aspects of the quantization of the damped harmonic oscillator. We derive the exact action for a damped mechanical system in the frame of the path integral formulation of the quantum Brownian motion problem developed by Schwinger and by Feynman and Vernon. The doubling of the phase-space degrees of freedom for dissipative systems and thermal field theories is discussed and the doubled variables are related to quantum noise effects. The 't Hooft proposal, according to which the loss of information due to dissipation in a classical deterministic system manifests itself in the quantum features of the system, is analyzed and the quantum spectrum of the harmonic oscillator is shown to be originated from the dissipative character of the original classical deterministic system.

id: quant-ph/0301032
title: Decoherence-Free Subspaces and Subsystems
authors: Daniel A. Lidar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: Review paper. To be published as a book chapter
journal: in "Irreversible Quantum Dynamics", F. Benatti and R. Floreanini (Eds.), pp. 83-120 (Springer Lecture Notes in Physics vol. 622, Berlin, 2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301032
abstract: Decoherence is the phenomenon of non-unitary dynamics that arises as a consequence of coupling between a system and its environment. It has important harmful implications for quantum information processing, and various solutions to the problem have been proposed. Here we provide a detailed a review of the theory of decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems, focusing on their usefulness for preservation of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0301033
title: NMR implementation of a quantum scheduling algorithm
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Zhiheng Lu, Zhiwei Deng, Hui Wang
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. Reviews are welcomed to zhangjfu2000@yahoo.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301033
abstract: The improved quantum scheduling algorithm proposed by Grover has been generalized using the generalized quantum search algorithm, in which a unitary operator replaces the Walsh-Hadamard transform, and $\pi/2$ phase rotations replace the selective inversions, in order to make the quantum scheduling algorithm suitable for more cases. Our scheme is realized on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. Experimental results show a good agreement between theory and experiment.

id: quant-ph/0301034
title: Anisotropic velocity distributions in 3D dissipative optical lattices
authors: Johan Jersblad, Harald Ellmann, Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, Anders Kastberg
comments: Accepted for publication in Eur. Phys. J., "Special issue: Quantum fluctuations and coherence in optical and atomic structures" (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301034
abstract: We present a direct measurement of velocity distributions in two dimensions by using an absorption imaging technique in a 3D near resonant optical lattice. The results show a clear difference in the velocity distributions for the different directions. The experimental results are compared with a numerical 3D semi-classical Monte-Carlo simulation. The numerical simulations are in good qualitative agreement with the experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0301035
title: Temperature correction to the Casimir force in cryogenic range and anomalous skin effect
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, M. V. Lokhanin
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 022113 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301035
abstract: Temperature correction to the Casimir force is considered for real metals at low temperatures. With the temperature decrease the mean free path for electrons becomes larger than the field penetration depth. In this condition description of metals with the impedance of anomalous skin effect is shown to be more appropriate than with the permittivity. The effect is crucial for the temperature correction. It is demonstrated that in the zero frequency limit the reflection coefficients should coincide with those of ideal metal if we demand the entropy to be zero at T=0. All the other prescriptions discussed in the literature for the $n=0$ term in the Lifshitz formula give negative entropy. It is shown that the temperature correction in the region of anomalous skin effect is not suppressed as it happens in the plasma model. This correction will be important in the future cryogenic measurements of the Casimir force.

id: quant-ph/0301036
title: Robust quantum gates and a bus architecture for quantum computing with rare-earth-ion doped crystals
authors: Janus Wesenberg, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012320 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301036
abstract: We present a composite pulse controlled phase gate which together with a bus architecture improves the feasibility of a recent quantum computing proposal based on rare-earth-ion doped crystals. Our proposed gate operation is tolerant to variations between ions of coupling strengths, pulse lengths, and frequency shifts, and it achieves worst case fidelities above 0.999 with relative variations in coupling strength as high as 10% and frequency shifts up to several percent of the resonant Rabi frequency of the laser used to implement the gate. We outline an experiment to demonstrate the creation and detection of maximally entangled states in the system.

id: quant-ph/0301037
title: Geometric phase in open systems
authors: A. Carollo, I. Fuentes-Guridi, M. Franca Santos, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 160402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301037
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase associated to the evolution of a system subjected to decoherence through a quantum-jump approach. The method is general and can be applied to many different physical systems. As examples, two main source of decoherence are considered: dephasing and spontaneous decay. We show that the geometric phase is completely insensitive to the former, i.e. it is independent of the number of jumps determined by the dephasing operator.

id: quant-ph/0301038
title: Entanglement transformations of pure Gaussian states
authors: G. Giedke, J. Eisert, J.I. Cirac, M.B. Plenio
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 3, 211 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301038
abstract: We present a theory of entanglement transformations of Gaussian pure states with local Gaussian operations and classical communication. This is the experimentally accessible set of operations that can be realized with optical elements such as beam splitters, phase shifts and squeezers, together with homodyne measurements. We provide a simple necessary and sufficient condition for the possibility to transform a pure bipartite Gaussian state into another one. We contrast our criterion with what is possible if general local operations are available.

id: quant-ph/0301039
title: Master-equations for the study of decoherence
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: 10 pages, latex, no figures, to appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 44 (2005) 1011-1021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301039
abstract: Different structures of master-equation used for the description of decoherence of a microsystem interacting through collisions with a surrounding environment are considered and compared. These results are connected to the general expression of the generator of a quantum dynamical semigroup in presence of translation invariance recently found by Holevo.

id: quant-ph/0301040
title: A Simple Proof that Toffoli and Hadamard are Quantum Universal
authors: Dorit Aharonov
comments: A note. 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301040
abstract: Recently Shi proved that Toffoli and Hadamard are universal for quantum computation. This is perhaps the simplest universal set of gates that one can hope for, conceptually; It shows that one only needs to add the Hadamard gate to make a 'classical' set of gates quantum universal. In this note we give a few lines proof of this fact relying on Kitaev's universal set of gates, and discuss the meaning of the result.

id: quant-ph/0301041
title: NMR experimental realization of seventh-order coupling transformations and the seven-qubit modified Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: Daxiu Wei, Jun Luo, Xiaodong Yang, Xianping Sun, Xizhi Zeng, Maili Liu, Shangwu Ding, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301041
abstract: We propose a scalable method on the basis of nth-order coupling operators to construct f-dependent phase transformations in the n-qubit modified Deutsch-Jozsa (D-J) quantum algorithm. The novel n-qubit entangling transformations are easily implemented via J-couplings between neighboring spins. The seven-qubit modified D-J quantum algorithm and seventh-order coupling transformations are then experimentally demonstrated with liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. The method may offer the possibility of creating generally entangled states of n qubits and simulating n-body interactions on n-qubit NMR quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0301042
title: Playing Prisoner's Dilemma with Quantum Rules
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Xiaodong Xu, Hui Li, Xianyi Zhou, Rongdian Han
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures; Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Special Issue on Game Theory and Evolutionary Processes: Order from Disorder - The Role of Noise in Creative Processes
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Vol. 2, No. 4 (2002) R189
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301042
abstract: Quantum game theory is a recently developing field of physical research. In this paper, we investigate quantum games in a systematic way. With the famous instance of the Prisoner's Dilemma, we present the fascinating properties of quantum games in different conditions, i.e. different number of the players, different strategic space of the players and different amount of the entanglement involved.

id: quant-ph/0301043
title: The Data Compression Theorem for Ergodic Quantum Information Sources
authors: Igor Bjelakovic, Arleta Szkola
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301043
abstract: We extend the data compression theorem to the case of ergodic quantum information sources. Moreover, we provide an asymptotically optimal compression scheme which is based on the concept of high probability subspaces. The rate of this compression scheme is equal to the von Neumann entropy rate.

id: quant-ph/0301044
title: Mixing quantum and classical mechanics and uniqueness of Planck's constant
authors: Debendranath Sahoo
comments: revised version accepted for publication in J.Phys.A:Math.Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301044
abstract: Observables of quantum or classical mechanics form algebras called quantum or classical Hamilton algebras respectively (Grgin E and Petersen A (1974) {\it J Math Phys} {\bf 15} 764\cite{grginpetersen}, Sahoo D (1977) {\it Pramana} {\bf 8} 545\cite{sahoo}). We show that the tensor-product of two quantum Hamilton algebras, each characterized by a different Planck's constant is an algebra of the same type characterized by yet another Planck's constant. The algebraic structure of mixed quantum and classical systems is then analyzed by taking the limit of vanishing Planck's constant in one of the component algebras. This approach provides new insight into failures of various formalisms dealing with mixed quantum-classical systems. It shows that in the interacting mixed quantum-classical description, there can be no back-reaction of the quantum system on the classical. A natural algebraic requirement involving restriction of the tensor product of two quantum Hamilton algebras to their components proves that Planck's constant is unique.

id: quant-ph/0301045
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Teleportation with a Conventional Laser
authors: Mikio Fujii
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 050302(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301045
abstract: We give a description of balanced homodyne detection (BHD) using a conventional laser as a local oscillator (LO), where the laser field outside the cavity is a mixed state whose phase is completely unknown. Our description is based on the standard interpretation of the quantum theory for measurement, and accords with the experimental result in the squeezed state generation scheme. We apply our description of BHD to continuous-variable quantum teleportation (CVQT) with a conventional laser to analyze the CVQT experiment [A. Furusawa et al., Science 282, 706 (1998)], whose validity has been questioned on the ground of intrinsic phase indeterminacy of the laser field [T. Rudolph and B.C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 077903 (2001)]. We show that CVQT with a laser is valid only if the unknown phase of the laser field is shared among sender's LOs, the EPR state, and receiver's LO. The CVQT experiment is considered valid with the aid of an optical path other than the EPR channel and a classical channel, directly linking between a sender and a receiver. We also propose a method to probabilistically generate a strongly phase-correlated quantum state via continuous measurement of independent lasers, which is applicable to realizing CVQT without the additional optical path.

id: quant-ph/0301046
title: Decoherence and quantum trajectories
authors: Todd A. Brun
comments: 14 pages, Springer LNP LaTeX macros, 1 figure in encapsulated postscript format. To appear in proceedings of DICE 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301046
abstract: Decoherence is the process by which quantum systems interact and become correlated with their external environments; quantum trajectories are a powerful technique by which decohering systems can be resolved into stochastic evolutions, conditioned on different possible ``measurements'' of the environment. By calling on recently-developed tools from quantum information theory, we can analyze simplified models of decoherence, explicitly quantifying the flow of information and randomness between the system, the environment, and potential observers.

id: quant-ph/0301047
title: Pancharatnam and Berry Phases in Three-Level Photonic Systems
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301047
abstract: A theoretical analysis of Pancharatnam and Berry phases is made for biphoton three-level systems, which are produced via frequency degenerate co-linear spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC). The general theory of Pancharatnam phases is discussed with a special emphasis on geodesic 'curves'in Hilbert space. Explicit expressions for Pancharatnam, dynamical and geometrical phases are derived for the transformations produced by linear phase-converters. The problem of gauge invariance is treated along all the article.

id: quant-ph/0301048
title: Deterministic Secure Direct Communication Using Ping-pong protocol without public channel
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301048
abstract: Based on an EPR pair of qubits and allowing asymptotically secure key distribution, a secure communication protocol is presented. Bob sends either of the EPR pair qubits to Alice. Alice receives the travel qubit. Then she can encode classical information by local unitary operations on this travel qubit. Alice send the qubit back to Bob. Bob can get Alice's information by measurement on the two photons in Bell operator basis. If Eve in line, she has no access to Bob's home qubit. All her operations are restricted to the travel qubit. In order to find out which opeartion Alice performs, Eve's operation must include measurements. The EPR pair qubits are destroyed. Bob's measurement on the two photons in Bell operator basis can help him to judge whether Eve exist in line or not. In this protocal, a public channel is not necessary.

id: quant-ph/0301049
title: Quantizing Time
authors: Kim Bostroem
comments: REVTEX4, 15 pages, 3 figures. Radically revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301049
abstract: A quantum mechanical theory is proposed which abandons an external parameter ``time'' in favor of a self-adjoint operator on a Hilbert space whose elements represent measurement events rather than system states. The standard quantum mechanical description is obtained in the idealized case of measurements of infinitely short duration. A theory of perturbation is developped. As a sample application Fermi's Golden Rule and the S-matrix are derived. The theory also offers a solution to the controversal issue of the time-energy uncertainty relation.

id: quant-ph/0301050
title: Decoherence in Phase Space
authors: M. Murakami, G.W. Ford, R.F. O'Connell
comments: in press in Laser Phys.13(2003)
journal: Laser Physics, Vol. 13. No. 2, 2003, pp. 180-183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301050
abstract: Much of the discussion of decoherence has been in terms of a particle moving in one dimension that is placed in an initial superposition state (a Schr\"{o}dinger "cat" state) corresponding to two widely separated wave packets. Decoherence refers to the destruction of the interference term in the quantum probability function. Here, we stress that a quantitative measure of decoherence depends not only on the specific system being studied but also on whether one is considering coordinate, momentum or phase space. We show that this is best illustrated by considering Wigner phase space where the measure is again different. Analytic results for the time development of the Wigner distribution function for a two-Gaussian Schrodinger "cat" state have been obtained in the high-temperature limit (where decoherence can occur even for negligible dissipation) which facilitates a simple demonstration of our remarks.

id: quant-ph/0301051
title: What is really "quantum" in quantum theory?
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301051
abstract: By analysing probabilistic foundations of quantum theory we understood that the so called quantum calculus of probabilities (including Born's rule) is not the main distinguishing feature of "quantum". This calculus is just a special variant of a contextual probabilistic calculus. In particular, we analysed the EPR-Bohm-Bell approach by using contextual probabilistic models (e.g., the frequency von Mises model). It is demonstrated that the EPR-Bohm-Bell consideration are not so much about "quantum", but they are merely about contextual. Our conjecture is that the "fundamental quantum element" is the Schr\"odinger evolution describing the very special dependence of probabilities on contexts. The main quantum mystery is neither the probability calculus in a Hilbert space nor the nonncommutative (Heisenberg) representation of physical observables, but the Schr\"odinger evolution of contextual probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0301052
title: Measurement-based quantum computation with cluster states
authors: R. Raussendorf, D.E. Browne, H.J. Briegel
comments: 37 papges, 27 figures, V2: author lost and found again
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022312 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301052
abstract: We give a detailed account of the one-way quantum computer, a scheme of quantum computation that consists entirely of one-qubit measurements on a particular class of entangled states, the cluster states. We prove its universality, describe why its underlying computational model is different from the network model of quantum computation and relate quantum algorithms to mathematical graphs. Further we investigate the scaling of required resources and give a number of examples for circuits of practical interest such as the circuit for quantum Fourier transformation and for the quantum adder. Finally, we describe computation with clusters of finite size.

id: quant-ph/0301053
title: Exact solution of the Hu-Paz-Zhang master equation
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D 64,105020 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301053
abstract: The Hu-Paz-Zhang equation is a master equation for an oscillator coupled to a linear passive bath. It is exact within the assumption that the oscillator and bath are initially uncoupled . Here an exact general solution is obtained in the form of an expression for the Wigner function at time t in terms of the initial Wigner function. The result is applied to the motion of a Gaussian wave packet and to that of a pair of such wave packets. A serious divergence arising from the assumption of an initially uncoupled state is found to be due to the zero-point oscillations of the bath and not removed in a cutoff model. As a consequence, worthwhile results for the equation can only be obtained in the high temperature limit, where zero-point oscillations are neglected. In that limit closed form expressions for wave packet spreading and attenuation of coherence are obtained. These results agree within a numerical factor with those appearing in the literature, which apply for the case of a particle at zero temperature that is suddenly coupled to a bath at high temperature. On the other hand very different results are obtained for the physically consistent case in which the initial particle temperature is arranged to coincide with that of the bath.

id: quant-ph/0301054
title: Decoherence without dissipation
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett A 286, 87(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301054
abstract: The prototypical Schr\"{o}dinger cat state, i.e., an initial state corresponding to two widely separated Gaussian wave packets, is considered. The decoherence time is calculated solely within the framework of elementary quantum mechanics and equilibrium statistical mechanics. This is at variance with common lore that irreversible coupling to a dissipative environment is the mechanism of decoherence. Here, we show that, on the contrary, decoherence can in fact occur at high temperature even for vanishingly small dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0301055
title: Quantum measurement and decoherence
authors: G. W. Ford, J. T. Lewis, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 64, 032101(2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301055
abstract: Distribution functions defined in accord with the quantum theory of measurement are combined with results obtained from the quantum Langevin equation to discuss decoherence in quantum Brownian motion. Closed form expressions for wave packet spreading and the attenuation of coherence of a pair of wave packets are obtained. The results are exact within the context of linear passive dissipation. It is shown that, contrary to widely accepted current belief, decoherence can occur at high temperature in the absence of dissipation. Expressions for the decoherence time with and without dissipation are obtained that differ from those appearing in earlier discussions.

id: quant-ph/0301056
title: How to project qubits faster using quantum feedback
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 1 eps figure, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 030301(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301056
abstract: When one performs a continuous measurement, whether on a classical or quantum system, the measurement provides a certain average rate at which one becomes certain about the state of the system. For a quantum system this is an average rate at which the system is projected onto a pure state. We show that for a standard kind of continuous measurement, for a qubit this rate may be increased by applying unitary operations during the measurement (that is, by using Hamiltonian feedback), in contrast to the equivalent measurement on a classical bit, where reversible operations cannot be used to enhance the rate of entropy reduction. We determine the optimal feedback algorithm and discuss the Hamiltonian resources required.

id: quant-ph/0301057
title: Wave Packet Spreading: Temperature and Squeezing Effects with Applications to Quantum Measurement and Decoherence
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Am.J.Phys. 70, 319(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301057
abstract: A localized free particle is represented by a wave packet and its motion is discussed in most quantum mechanics textbooks. Implicit in these discussions is the assumption of zero temperature. We discuss how the effects of finite temperature and squeezing can be incorporated in an elementary manner. The results show how the introduction of simple tools and ideas can bring the reader into contact with topics at the frontiers of research in quantum mechanics. We discuss the standard quantum limit, which is of interest in the measurement of small forces, and decoherence of a mixed (``Schrodinger cat'') state, which has implications for current research in quantum computation, entanglement, and the quantum-classical interface.

id: quant-ph/0301058
title: Checking $2 \times M$ separability via semidefinite programming
authors: Hugo J. Woerdeman
comments: 4 pages. Phys. Rev. A., to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301058
abstract: In this paper we propose a sequence of tests which gives a definitive test for checking $2\times M$ separability. The test is definitive in the sense that each test corresponds to checking membership in a cone, and that the closure of the union of all these cones consists exactly of {\it all} $2 \times M$ separable states. Membership in each single cone may be checked via semidefinite programming, and is thus a tractable problem. This sequential test comes about by considering the dual problem, the characterization of all positive maps acting ${\mathbb C}^{2 \times 2} \to {\mathbb C}^{M\times M}$. The latter in turn is solved by characterizing all positive quadratic matrix polynomials in a complex variable.

id: quant-ph/0301059
title: Time, Finite Statistics, and Bell's Fifth Position
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: 28 pages; proceedings of Vaxjo conference (2002) on foundations of QM and probability. Version 2: corrected a LaTeX error (\mathbb 1 did not work)
journal: pp. 179-206 in: Proc. of "Foundations of Probability and Physics - 2", Ser. Math. Modelling in Phys., Engin., and Cogn. Sc., vol. 5/2002, V\"axj\"o Univ. Press, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301059
abstract: I discuss three issues connected to Bell's theorem and Bell-CHSH-type experiments: time and the memory loophole, finite statistics (how wide are the error bars Under Local Realism), and the question of whether a loophole-free experiment is feasible, a surprising omission on Bell's list of four positions to hold in the light of his results. Levy's (1935) theory of martingales, and Fisher's (1935) theory of randomization in experimental design, take care of time and of finite statistics. I exploit a (classical) computer network metaphor for local realism to argue that Bell's conclusions are independent of how one likes to interpret probability, and give a critique of some recent anti-Bellist literature.

id: quant-ph/0301060
title: Coalescence and Anti-Coalescence Interference of Two-Photon Wavepacket in a Beam Splitter
authors: Kaige Wang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301060
abstract: We study a general theory on the interference of two-photon wavepacket in a beam splitter (BS). We find that the perfect coalescence interference requires a symmetric spectrum of two-photon wavepacket which can be entangled or un-entangled. Furthermore, we introduce a two-photon wavepacket with anti-symmetric spectrum, which is related with photon entanglement and shows a perfect anti-coalescence effect. The theory present uniform and complete explanation to two-photon interference.

id: quant-ph/0301061
title: An Elementary Aharonov-Bohm System in Three Space Dimensions: Quantum Attraction With No Classical Force
authors: Alfred Scharff Goldhaber, Ryan Requist
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301061
abstract: As a consequence of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, there is a quantum-induced attraction between a charged particle and a rigid, impenetrable hoop made from an arbitrarily thin tube containing a superconductor quantum of magnetic flux. This is remarkable because in classical physics there is no force between the two objects, and quantum-mechanical effects (associated with uncertainty principle energy) generally are repulsive rather than attractive. For an incident spinless charged particle in a P wave (in a configuration with total angular momentum zero) we verify a resonance just above threshold using the Kohn variational principle in its S-matrix form. Even if optimistic choices of parameters describing a model system with these properties turned out to be feasible, the temperature required to observe the resonance would be far lower than has yet been attained in the laboratory.

id: quant-ph/0301062
title: Quantum Game with Restricted Matrix Strategies
authors: Bo Chen, Ying-Jun Ma, Gui Lu Long
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: Commun, Theor. Phys. 40 (2003) 655-658
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301062
abstract: We study a quantum game played by two players with restricted multiple strategies. It is found that in this restricted quantum game Nash equilibrium does not always exist when the initial state is entangled. At the same time, we find that when Nash equilibrium exists the pay off function is usually different from that in the classical counterpart except in some special cases. This presents an explicit example where quantum game and classical game may differ. When designing a quantum game with limited strategies, the allowed strategy should be carefully chosen according to the type of initial state.

id: quant-ph/0301063
title: Efficient classical simulation of slightly entangled quantum computations
authors: Guifre Vidal
comments: 4 pages. Major changes. Significantly improved simulation scheme
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 147902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301063
abstract: We present a scheme to efficiently simulate, with a classical computer, the dynamics of multipartite quantum systems on which the amount of entanglement (or of correlations in the case of mixed-state dynamics) is conveniently restricted. The evolution of a pure state of n qubits can be simulated by using computational resources that grow linearly in n and exponentially in the entanglement. We show that a pure-state quantum computation can only yield an exponential speed-up with respect to classical computations if the entanglement increases with the size n of the computation, and gives a lower bound on the required growth.

id: quant-ph/0301064
title: Quantum nondemolition measurement of a single electron spin in a quantum dot
authors: Mitsuro Sugita, Susumu Machida, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301064
abstract: We propose a scheme for the quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement of a single electron spin in a single quantum dot (QD). Analytical expressions are obtained for the optical Faraday effect between a quantum dot exciton and microcavity field. The feasibility of the QND measurement of a single electron spin is discussed for a GaAs/AlAs microcavity with an InAs QD.

id: quant-ph/0301065
title: Quantum information and special relativity
authors: Asher Peres, Daniel R. Terno
comments: RevTex, 6 pages with one figure. Proceedings of TH-2002, Paris, 2002
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 1, 225 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301065
abstract: Relativistic effects affect nearly all notions of quantum information theory. The vacuum behaves as a noisy channel, even if the detectors are perfect. The standard definition of a reduced density matrix fails for photon polarization because the transversality condition behaves like a superselection rule. We can however define an effective reduced density matrix which corresponds to a restricted class of positive operator-valued measures. There are no pure photon qubits, and no exactly orthogonal qubit states. Reduced density matrices for the spin of massive particles are well-defined, but are not covariant under Lorentz transformations. The spin entropy is not a relativistic scalar and has no invariant meaning. The distinguishability of quantum signals and their entanglement depend on the relative motion of observers.

id: quant-ph/0301066
title: Remarks on entanglement assisted classical capacity
authors: Heng Fan
comments: Revtex, 5 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A313 (2003) 182-187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301066
abstract: The property of the optimal signal ensembles of entanglement assisted channel capacity is studied. A relationship between entanglement assisted channel capacity and one-shot capacity of unassisted channel is obtained. The data processing inequalities, convexity and additivity of the entanglement assisted channel capacity are reformulated by simple methods.

id: quant-ph/0301067
title: A loophole in Cabello's proof to Bell's theorem without inequalities
authors: W. LiMing, Z. L. Tang, C. Liao
comments: 2 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301067
abstract: Cabello proved Bell's theorem without using inequalities. A loophole of Cabello's proof is pointed out in this work.

id: quant-ph/0301068
title: Optimization of a Neutron-Spin Test of the Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Paolo Facchi, Yoichi Nakaguro, Hiromichi Nakazato, Saverio Pascazio, Makoto Unoki, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 012107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301068
abstract: A neutron-spin experimental test of the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) is discussed from a practical point of view, when the nonideal efficiency of the magnetic mirrors, used for filtering the spin state, is taken into account. In the idealized case the number N of (ideal) mirrors can be indefinitely increased, yielding an increasingly better QZE. By contrast, in a practical situation with imperfect mirrors, there is an optimal number of mirrors, N_opt, at which the QZE becomes maximum: more frequent measurements would deteriorate the performance. However, a quantitative analysis shows that a good experimental test of the QZE is still feasible. These conclusions are of general validity: in a realistic experiment, the presence of losses and imperfections leads to an optimal frequency N_opt, which is in general finite. One should not increase N beyond N_opt. A convenient formula for N_opt, valid in a broad framework, is derived as a function of the parameters characterizing the experimental setup.

id: quant-ph/0301069
title: Diffraction of Weakly Bound Clusters: Spectroscopy and Size Effects
authors: Martin Stoll, Thorsten Koehler, Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: Conference Proceedings for TH2002, Paris, July 22-27 2002. 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Proceedings of the International Congress on Theoretical Physics. Paris, July 2002. ISBN 3-7643-2433-3, Birkh\"auser 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301069
abstract: Exciting experiments in the field of atom and molecule optics have lately drawn much attention to the effects involved in the coherent diffraction of particle beams. We review the influence of the finite size of the particles and of their energy level spectrum on the diffraction pattern. In turn, we demonstrate how experimental diffraction measurements allow to determine these quantities of weakly bound molecules by considering the diffraction of the dimer and trimer of helium, and the deuterium molecule dimer.

id: quant-ph/0301070
title: On Metric of Quantum States with Lorentzian Signature
authors: Aalok Pandya
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301070
abstract: In this note we comment on yet another way of describing metric of quantum states with the Lorentzian signature. For this, we consider the metric of quantum states and make successive transformations, exploiting the relationship between S3 and SU(2).

id: quant-ph/0301071
title: The nilpotent Dirac equation and its applications in particle physics
authors: Peter Rowlands
comments: 80 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301071
abstract: The nilpotent Dirac formalism has been shown, in previous publications, to generate new physical explanations for aspects of particle physics, with the additional possibility of calculating some of the parameters involved in the Standard Model. The applications so far obtained are summarised, with an outline of some more recent developments.

id: quant-ph/0301072
title: On the irreversibility of entanglement distillation
authors: K.G.H. Vollbrecht, R.F. Werner, M.M. Wolf
comments: 5 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301072
abstract: We investigate the irreversibility of entanglement distillation for a symmetric d-1 parameter family of mixed bipartite quantum states acting on Hilbert spaces of arbitrary dimension d x d. We prove that in this family the entanglement cost is generically strictly larger than the distillable entanglement, such that the set of states for which the distillation process is asymptotically reversible is of measure zero. This remains true even if the distillation process is catalytically assisted by pure state entanglement and every operation is allowed, which preserves the positivity of the partial transpose. It is shown, that reversibility occurs only in cases where the state is quasi-pure in the sense that all its pure state entanglement can be revealed by a simple operation on a single copy. The reversible cases are shown to be completely characterized by minimal uncertainty vectors for entropic uncertainty relations.

id: quant-ph/0301073
title: Note on the derivative of the hyperbolic cotangent
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A 35, 4183(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301073
abstract: In a letter to Nature (Ford G W and O'Connell R F 1996 Nature 380 113) we presented a formula for the derivative of the hyperbolic cotangent that differs from the standard one in the literature by an additional term proportional to the Dirac delta function. Since our letter was necessarily brief, shortly after its appearance we prepared a more extensive unpublished note giving a detailed explanation of our argument. Since this note has been referenced in a recent article (Estrada R and Fulling S A 2002 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 3079) we think it appropriate that it now appear in print. We have made no alteration to the original note.

id: quant-ph/0301074
title: The generalized Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: 5 pages, 1 Table. A new third paragraph and an additional reference have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A68, 052104 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301074
abstract: A proof of the generalized Kochen-Specker theorem in two dimensions due to Cabello and Nakamura is extended to all higher dimensions. A set of 18 states in four dimensions is used to give closely related proofs of the generalized Kochen-Specker, Kochen-Specker and Bell theorems that shed some light on the relationship between these three theorems.

id: quant-ph/0301075
title: Selective pressures on genomes in molecular evolution
authors: Charles Ofria, Christoph Adami, Travis C. Collier
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, to be published in J. theor. Biology
journal: J. theor. Biol. 222 (2003) 477-483
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301075
abstract: We describe the evolution of macromolecules as an information transmission process and apply tools from Shannon information theory to it. This allows us to isolate three independent, competing selective pressures that we term compression, transmission, and neutrality selection. The first two affect genome length: the pressure to conserve resources by compressing the code, and the pressure to acquire additional information that improves the channel, increasing the rate of information transmission into each offspring. Noisy transmission channels (replication with mutations) gives rise to a third pressure that acts on the actual encoding of information; it maximizes the fraction of mutations that are neutral with respect to the phenotype. This neutrality selection has important implications for the evolution of evolvability. We demonstrate each selective pressure in experiments with digital organisms.

id: quant-ph/0301076
title: Maxwell's Demon, Szilard's Engine and Quantum Measurements
authors: Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301076
abstract: We propose and analyze a quantum version of Szilard's ``one-molecule engine.'' In particular, we recover, in the quantum context, Szilard's conclusion concerning the free energy ``cost'' of measurements: $\Delta F \geq k_B T\ln2$ per bit of information.

id: quant-ph/0301077
title: Stochastic Simulation of Grover's Algorithm
authors: L.R.U. Manssur, R. Portugal
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301077
abstract: We simulate Grover's algorithm in a classical computer by means of a stochastic method using the Hubbard-Stratonovich decomposition of n-qubit gates into one-qubit gates integrated over auxiliary fields. The problem reduces to finding the fixed points of the associated system of Langevin differential equations. The equations are obtained automatically for any number of qubits by employing a computer algebra program. We present the numerical results of the simulation for a small search space.

id: quant-ph/0301078
title: On the Monomiality of Nice Error Bases
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 6 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 1084 - 1089, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301078
abstract: Unitary error bases generalize the Pauli matrices to higher dimensional systems. Two basic constructions of unitary error bases are known: An algebraic construction by Knill, which yields nice error bases, and a combinatorial construction by Werner, which yields shift-and-multiply bases. An open problem posed by Schlingemann and Werner (see this http URL) relates these two constructions and asks whether each nice error basis is equivalent to a shift-and-multiply basis. We solve this problem and show that the answer is negative. However, we also show that it is always possible to find a fairly sparse representation of a nice error basis.

id: quant-ph/0301079
title: Grover's Algorithm: Quantum Database Search
authors: C. Lavor, L.R.U. Manssur, R. Portugal
comments: 28 pages, 21 figures, introductory review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301079
abstract: We review Grover's algorithm by means of a detailed geometrical interpretation and a worked out example. Some basic concepts of Quantum Mechanics and quantum circuits are also reviewed. This work is intended for non-specialists which have basic knowledge on undergraduate Linear Algebra.

id: quant-ph/0301080
title: Phase shifts of atomic de Broglie waves at an evanescent wave mirror
authors: C. Henkel, J.-Y. Courtois, R. Kaiser, C. Westbrook, A. Aspect
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, re-typed electronic version based on print version
journal: Laser Physics 4 (1994) 1042-49, special issue "Laser cooling and trapping"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301080
abstract: A detailed theoretical investigation of the reflection of an atomic de Broglie wave at an evanescent wave mirror is presented. The classical and the semiclassical descriptions of the reflection process are reviewed, and a full wave-mechanical approach based on the analytical soution of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation is presented. The phase shift at reflection is calculated exactly and interpreted in terms of instantaneous reflection of the atom at an effective mirror. Besides the semiclassical regime of reflection describable by the WKB method, a pure quantum regime of reflection is identified in the limit where the incident de Broglie wavelength is large compared to the evanescent wave decay length.

id: quant-ph/0301081
title: Perturbatively Defined Effective Classical Potential in Curved Space
authors: H.Kleinert, A. Chervyakov
comments: Author Information under this http URL . Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A18 (2003) 5521-5540
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301081
abstract: The partition function of a quantum statistical system in flat space can always be written as an integral over a classical Boltzmann factor $\exp[ -\beta V^{\rm eff cl({\bf x}_0)]$, where $V^{\rm eff cl({\bf x}_0)$ is the so-called effective classical potential containing the effects of all quantum fluctuations. The variable of integration is the temporal path average ${\bf x_0\equiv \beta ^{-1}\int_0^ \beta d\tau {\bf x}(\tau)$. We show how to generalize this concept to paths $q^\mu(\tau)$ in curved space with metric $g_{\mu \nu (q)$, and calculate perturbatively the high-temperature expansion of $V^{\rm eff cl(q_0)$. The requirement of independence under coordinate transformations $q^\mu(\tau)\to q'^\mu(\tau)$ introduces subtleties in the definition and treatment of the path average $q_0^\mu$, and covariance is achieved only with the help of a suitable Faddeev-Popov procedure.

id: quant-ph/0301082
title: Supersymmetrically transformed periodic potentials
authors: David J. Fernandez C
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, talk given at the 7th International Wigner Symposium, College Park, Maryland, August 2001, relevant references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301082
abstract: The higher order supersymmetric partners of a stationary periodic potential are studied. The transformation functions associated to the band edges do not change the spectral structure. However, when the transformation is implemented for factorization energies inside of the forbidden bands, the final potential will have again the initial band structure but it can have bound states encrusted into the gaps, giving place to localized periodicity defects.

id: quant-ph/0301083
title: Construction and Characterization of Symmetrical States for Multiqubit Systems
authors: P. J. Lin-Chung
comments: 36 pages, 1 figure, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301083
abstract: A general method in constructing a complete set of wave functions for multipartite identical qubits is presented based on the irreducible representations of the permutation group and the nth rank tensors. Particular examples for n =2, 3, and 4 are derived and the entanglement behavior for each state is examined from several criteria. It is found that the states so constructed are all bound entangled states. For the case of even n, all the states are found to have maximum "n-tangle". The symmetry in spin space is found to increase the n-tangle in general. The "n-tangle" for n = 4 is found not always representing 4-way entanglement. It measures the degree of spin-space symmetry instead. A useful relationship in the classification between systems containing different number of qubits is given in terms of the Young's Tableaux based on our analysis.

id: quant-ph/0301084
title: Quantum Computation with a One-Dimensional Optical Lattice
authors: Jiannis Pachos, Peter L. Knight
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, REVTEX. v3: clarifications on Toffoli gate, version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 107902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301084
abstract: We present an economical dynamical control scheme to perform quantum computation on a one dimensional optical lattice, where each atom encodes one qubit. The model is based on atom tunneling transitions between neighboring sites of the lattice. They can be activated by external laser beams resulting in a two-qubit phase gate or in an exchange interaction. A realization of the Toffoli gate is presented which requires only a single laser pulse and no individual atom addressing.

id: quant-ph/0301085
title: Quantum data hiding with spontaneous parameter down-conversion
authors: Guang-Can Guo, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, adding some analyse for security proof, to be appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phy. Rev. A 68, 044303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301085
abstract: Here we analyze the practical implication of the existing quantum data hiding protocol with Bell states produced with optical downconverter. We show that the uncertainty for the producing of the Bell states with spontaneous parameter down-conversion should be taken into account, because it will cause serious trouble to the hider encoding procedure. A set of extended Bell states and a generalized Bell states analyzer are proposed to describe and analyze the possible states of two photons distributing in two paths. Then we present a method to integrate the above uncertainty of Bell states preparation into the dating hiding procedure, when we encode the secret with the set of extended Bell states. These modifications greatly simplify the hider's encoding operations, and thus paves the way for the implementation of quantum data hiding with present-day quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0301086
title: Entanglement versus relaxation and decoherence in a quantum algorithm for quantum chaos
authors: S. Bettelli, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: research at Quantware MIPS Center this http URL, revtex, 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication on PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A 67, 054303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301086
abstract: We study analytically and numerically the behavior of quantum entanglement in a quantum computer operating an efficient algorithm for quantum chaos. Our results show that in an ideal algorithm the entanglement decays exponentially with the diffusive relaxation rate induced by classical chaos. This decay goes down to a residual level which drops exponentially with the number of qubits n_q. Decoherence destroys the residual entanglement with a rate exponential in n_q.

id: quant-ph/0301087
title: The 2-local Hamiltonian problem encompasses NP
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Thomas Beth
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301087
abstract: We show that the NP complete problems MAX CUT and INDEPENDENT SET can be formulated as the 2-local Hamiltonian problem as defined by Kitaev. He introduced the quantum complexity class BQNP as the quantum analog of NP, and showed that the 5-local Hamiltonian problem is BQNP-complete. It is not known whether the s-local Hamiltonian problem is BQNP-complete for s smaller than 5. Therefore it is interesting to determine what problems can be reduced to the s-local Hamiltonian problem. Kitaev showed that 3-SAT can be formulated as a 3-local Hamiltonian problem. We extend his result by showing that 2-locality is sufficient in order to encompass NP.

id: quant-ph/0301088
title: Concurrence and foliations induced by some 1-qubit channels
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: Quantum Composite systems 2002, Ustron, Poland, September 2002, talk
journal: Int. J. Theeor. Phys. 42, 983-999 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301088
abstract: We start with a short introduction to the roof concept. An elementary discussion of phase-damping channels shows the role of anti-linear operators in representing their concurrence. A general expression for some concurrences is derived. We apply it to 1-qubit channels of length two, getting induced foliations of the state space, the optimal decompositions, and the entropy of a state with respect to these channels. For amplitude-damping channels one obtains an expression for the Holevo capacity allowing for easy numerical calculations.

id: quant-ph/0301089
title: Non-adiabatic geometrical quantum gates in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Paolo Solinas, Paolo Zanardi, Nino Zangh¨¬, Fausto Rossi
comments: 5 Pages LaTeX, 10 Figures included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67,(2003) 052309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301089
abstract: In this paper we study the implementation of non-adiabatic geometrical quantum gates with in semiconductor quantum dots. Different quantum information enconding/manipulation schemes exploiting excitonic degrees of freedom are discussed. By means of the Aharanov-Anandan geometrical phase one can avoid the limitations of adiabatic schemes relying on adiabatic Berry phase; fast geometrical quantum gates can be in principle implemented

id: quant-ph/0301090
title: Holonomic quantum gates: A semiconductor-based implementation
authors: Paolo Solinas, Paolo Zanardi, Nino Zangh¨¬, Fausto Rossi
comments: 10 Pages LaTeX, 10 Figures included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301090
abstract: We propose an implementation of holonomic (geometrical) quantum gates by means of semiconductor nanostructures. Our quantum hardware consists of semiconductor macroatoms driven by sequences of ultrafast laser pulses ({\it all optical control}). Our logical bits are Coulomb-correlated electron-hole pairs (excitons) in a four-level scheme selectively addressed by laser pulses with different polarization. A universal set of single and two-qubit gates is generated by adiabatic change of the Rabi frequencies of the lasers and by exploiting the dipole coupling between excitons.

id: quant-ph/0301091
title: Dynamics of two atoms coupled to a cavity field
authors: J.A. Roversi, A. Vidiella-Barranco, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: LaTex, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301091
abstract: We investigate the interaction of two two-level atoms with a single mode cavity field. One of the atoms is exactly at resonance with the field, while the other is well far from resonance and hence is treated in the dispersive limit. We find that the presence of the non-resonant atom produces a shift in the Rabi frequency of the resonant atom, as if it was detuned from the field. We focus on the discussion of the evolution of the state purity of each atom.

id: quant-ph/0301092
title: Unitary time-dependent superconvergent technique for pulse-driven quantum dynamics
authors: D. Daems, A. Keller, S. Gu¨¦rin, H.-R. Jauslin, O. Atabek
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052505 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301092
abstract: We present a superconvergent Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser type of perturbation theory for time-dependent Hamiltonians. It is strictly unitary upon truncation at an arbitrary order and not restricted to periodic or quasiperiodic Hamiltonians. Moreover, for pulse-driven systems we construct explicitly the KAM transformations involved in the iterative procedure. The technique is illustrated on a two-level model perturbed by a pulsed interaction for which we obtain convergence all the way from the sudden regime to the opposite adiabatic regime.

id: quant-ph/0301093
title: Exact quantum Fourier transforms and discrete logarithm algorithms
authors: Michele Mosca, Christof Zalka
comments: 10 pages Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301093
abstract: We show how the quantum fast Fourier transform (QFFT) can be made exact for arbitrary orders (first for large primes). For most quantum algorithms only the quantum Fourier transform of order $2^n$ is needed, and this can be done exactly. Kitaev \cite{kitaev} showed how to approximate the Fourier transform for any order. Here we show how his construction can be made exact by using the technique known as ``amplitude amplification''. Although unlikely to be of any practical use, this construction e.g. allows to make Shor's discrete logarithm quantum algorithm exact. Thus we have the first example of an exact non black box fast quantum algorithm, thereby giving more evidence that ``quantum'' need not be probabilistic. We also show that in a certain sense the family of circuits for the exact QFFT is uniform. Namely the parameters of the gates can be calculated efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0301094
title: Geometric Phase of electrons due to the Spin-rotation Coupling in Rotating C$_{60}$ Molecules
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Shao Long He
comments: 5 pages, Latex
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 195421 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301094
abstract: The rapidly rotational motion of C$_{60}$ molecules provides us with an ingenious way to test Mashhoon's spin-rotation coupling. The spin-rotation coupling of electrons in the rotating C$_{60}$ molecule is considered in the present letter. It is shown that the intrinsic spin (gravitomagnetic moment) of the electron that can be coupled to the time-dependent rotating frequency of rotating frame of reference (C$_{60}$ molecule) results in a geometric phase, which may be measured through the electronic energy spectra of C$_{60}$ molecules.

id: quant-ph/0301095
title: Gravitomagnetic Field and Time-Dependent Spin-Rotation Coupling
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Hong-Yi Zhu, Shen-Lei Shi
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures, Latex
journal: Phys. Script, Vol 65, 465 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301095
abstract: The Kerr metric of spherically symmetric gravitational field is analyzed through the coordinate transformation from the rotating frame to fixing frame, and consequently that the inertial force field (with the exception of the centrifugal force field) in the rotating system is one part of its gravitomagnetic field is verified. We investigate the spin-rotation coupling and, by making use of Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory, we obtain exact solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation of a spinning particle in a time-dependent rotating reference frame. A potential application of these exact solutions to the investigation of Earth$^{,}$s rotating frequency fluctuation by means of neutron-gravity interferometry experiment is briefly discussed in the present paper.

id: quant-ph/0301096
title: Progressive Decoherence and Total Environmental Disentanglement
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 6pp, revtex4, talk at conf. "Irreversible Quantum Dynamics" (Triest, Italy)
journal: Lect. Notes Phys. 622 (2003) 157-163
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301096
abstract: The simple stationary decoherence of a two-state quantum system is discussed from a new viewpoint of environmental entanglement. My work emphasizes that an unconditional local state must totally be disentangled from the rest of the universe. It has been known for long that the loss of coherence within the given local system is gradual. Also the quantum correlations between the local system and the rest of the universe are being destroyed gradually. I show that, differently from local decoherence, the process of environmental disentanglement may terminate in finite time. The time of perfect disentanglement turns out to be on the decoherence time scale, and in a simple case we determine the exact value of it.

id: quant-ph/0301097
title: Symmetries in Physics: Philosophical Reflections
authors: Katherine Brading, Elena Castellani
comments: 16 pages. To appear in K. Brading and E. Castellani (eds.), "Symmetries in Physics: Philosophical Reflections", Cambridge University Press, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301097
abstract: This is the introductive paper to the volume "Symmetries in Physics: Philosophical Reflections", Cambridge University Press, 2003. We begin with a brief description of the historical roots and emergence of the concept of symmetry that is at work in modern physics. Then, in section 2, we mention the different varieties of symmetry that fall under this general umbrella, outlining the ways in which they were introduced into physics. We also distinguish between two different uses of symmetry: symmetry principles versus symmetry arguments. In section 3 we make some remarks of a general nature concerning the status and significance of symmetries in physics. Finally, in section 4, we outline the structure of the book and the contents of each part.

id: quant-ph/0301098
title: Where was the particle?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures Conceptual changes, the preparation of the experiment was simplified, new arguments in favor and against the main hypothesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301098
abstract: The hypothesis of empty/full waves considers that a click in a detector is triggered by a property carried by the wave-packet that impinges on that detector. Different authors call this property particle, but according to the terminology of this hypothesis, the term full wave is used in this text. The present article discusses the validity of the empty/full waves hypothesis. It is shown that the energy conservation principle imposes for a full wave a continuous trajectory from the source to the detector. That gives legitimacy to the question -- in case the wave function consists in a couple of space-separated branches -- which wave-packet was a full wave before the click in the detector, or, in other authors' terminology, where was the particle before the detector clicked. This question is a counterfactual question. In some multi-particle experiments, e.g. Hardy's thought-experiment with an electron and a positron, the combination of the empty/full waves hypothesis and counterfactual reasoning leads to a contradiction with the predictions of the quantum theory. However, it is shown here that this contradiction is solvable if the locality requirement is relaxed. To the difference from the local hidden variables, it is not possible to prove or disprove the idea of empty/ full waves, at least at present. But it is possible to ask whether this hypothesis offers a solution to the quantum puzzles. The answer is negative. For instance it offers no solution to the before-before loop. The question remains open whether the empty/full waves hypothesis is correct, or "God plays dice".

id: quant-ph/0301099
title: Distillation Protocols for Mixed States of Multilevel Qubits and the Quantum Renormalization Group
authors: M.A. Martin-Delgado, M. Navascues
comments: REVTEX4 file, 12 pages, 3 tables, color figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J. D27 (2003) 169-180
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301099
abstract: We study several properties of distillation protocols to purify multilevel qubit states (qudits) when applied to a certain family of initial mixed bipartite states. We find that it is possible to use qudits states to increase the stability region obtained with the flow equations to distill qubits. In particular, for qutrits we get the phase diagram of the distillation process with a rich structure of fixed points. We investigate the large-$D$ limit of qudits protocols and find an analytical solution in the continuum limit. The general solution of the distillation recursion relations is presented in an appendix. We stress the notion of weight amplification for distillation protocols as opposed to the quantum amplitude amplification that appears in the Grover algorithm. Likewise, we investigate the relations between quantum distillation and quantum renormalization processes.

id: quant-ph/0301100
title: Superluminality in Quantum Theory
authors: Giovanni Andrea Fantasia
comments: 4 pages; reply comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301100
abstract: In the present work we investigate the possibility of superluminal information transmission in quantum theory. We give simple and general arguments to prove that the general structure (Hilbert's space plus instantaneous state reduction) of the theory allows the existence of superluminal communication. We discuss how this relates with existing no-signalling theorems.

id: quant-ph/0301101
title: Relative phase change during quantum operation
authors: Arun K. Pati
comments: Latex file, article style, 15 pages, no figures. Invited talk presented at First Feynman Festival on Quantum Computation at University of Maryland, College Park from August 23-28th, 2002 under the title ``Quantum phase during quantum operation''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301101
abstract: Quantum operations represented by completely positive maps encompass many of the physical processes and have been very powerful in describing quantum computation and information processing tasks. We introduce the notion of relative phase change for a quantum system undergoing quantum operation. We find that the relative phase shift of a system not only depends on the state of the system, but also depends on the initial state of the ancilla with which it might have interacted in the past. The relative phase change during a sequence of quantum operations is shown to be non-additive in nature. This property can attribute a `memory' to a quantum channel. Also the notion of relative phase shift helps us to define what we call `in-phase quantum channels'. We will present the relative phase shift for a qubit undergoing depolarizing channel and complete randomization and discuss their implications.

id: quant-ph/0301103
title: Entanglement and classical correlations in the quantum frame
authors: E.G. Beltrametti, S. Bugajski
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301103
abstract: The frame of classical probability theory can be generalized by enlarging the usual family of random variables in order to encompass nondeterministic ones: this leads to a frame in which two kinds of correlations emerge: the classical correlation which is coded in the mixed state of the physical system and a new correlation, to be called probabilistic entanglement, which may occur also at pure states. We examine to what extent this characterization of correlations can be applied to quantum mechanics. Explicit calculations on simple examples outline that a same quantum state can show only classical correlations or only entanglement depending on its statistical content; situations may also arise in which the two kinds of correlations compensate each other.

id: quant-ph/0301104
title: Decoherence and Records for the Case of a Scattering Environment
authors: P.J.Dodd, J.J.Halliwell
comments: 20 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys Rev D67, 105018 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301104
abstract: Using non-relativistic many body quantum field theory, a master equation is derived for the reduced density matrix of a dilute gas of massive particles undergoing scattering interactions with an environment of light particles. The dynamical variable that naturally decoheres (the pointer basis) is essentially the local number density of the dilute gas. Earlier master equations for this sort of system (such as that derived by Joos and Zeh) are recovered on restricting to the one-particle sector for the distinguished system. The derivation shows explicitly that the scattering environment stores information about the system by ``measuring'' the number density. This therefore provides an important example of the general connection between decoherence and records indicated by the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory. It also brings the master equation for this system into a form emphasizing the role of local densities, which is relevant to current work on deriving hydrodynamic equations from quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0301105
title: Quantum Computing in the Presence of Detected Spontaneous Emission
authors: K. Khodjasteh, D.A. Lidar
comments: 7 pages, no figures. This version corrects an error in the description of spontaneous emission in the quantum jumps picture. As a consequence the error correcting code and some aspects of the preparation, computation, and recovery operations have been modified. The main conclusions of the published paper remain intact. An erratum will be published shortly in Phys. Rev. A, detailing all the corrections required in the published paper. The present version includes all these corrections in the body of the paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022322 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301105
abstract: A new method for quantum computation in the presence of detected spontaneous emission is proposed. The method combines strong and fast (dynamical decoupling) pulses and a quantum error correcting code that encodes $n$ logical qubits into only $n+1$ physical qubits. Universal fault-tolerant quantum computation is shown to be possible in this scheme using Hamiltonians relevant to a range of promising proposals for the physical implementation of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0301106
title: Local indistinguishability: more nonlocality with less entanglement
authors: Michal Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Karol Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTeX4, partially supersedes quant-ph/0204116, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 047902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301106
abstract: We provide a first operational method for checking indistinguishability of orthogonal states by local operations and classical communication (LOCC). This method originates from the one introduced by Ghosh et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 5807 (2001) (quant-ph/0106148)), though we deal with pure states. We apply our method to show that an arbitrary complete multipartite orthogonal basis is indistinguishable by LOCC, if it contains at least one entangled state. We also show that probabilistic local distinguishing is possible for full basis if and only if all vectors are product. We employ our method to prove local indistinguishability in an example with sets of pure states of 3X3, which shows that one can have ``more nonlocality with less entanglement'', where ``more nonlocality'' is in the sense of ``increased local indistinguishability of orthogonal states''. This example also provides, to our knowledge, the only known example where d orthogonal states in dXd are locally indistinguishable.

id: quant-ph/0301107
title: Analytical formula connecting entangled state and the closest disentangled state
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 4 pages. minor correction, refs were added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 060301(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301107
abstract: The separable state closest to a given entangled state in the relative entropy measure is called the closest disentangled state. We provide an analytical formula connecting the entangled state and the closest disentangled state in two qubits. Using this formula, when any disentangled state ($\sigma$) located at the entangle-disentangle boundary is given, entangled states to which $\sigma$ is closest can be obtained analytically. Further, this formula naturally defines the direction normal to the boundary surface. The direction is uniquely determined by $\sigma$ in almost all cases.

id: quant-ph/0301108
title: How robust is a quantum gate in the presence of noise?
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301108
abstract: We define several quantitative measures of the robustness of a quantum gate against noise. Exact analytic expressions for the robustness against depolarizing noise are obtained for all unitary quantum gates, and it is found that the controlled-not is the most robust two-qubit quantum gate, in the sense that it is the quantum gate which can tolerate the most depolarizing noise and still generate entanglement. Our results enable us to place several analytic upper bounds on the value of the threshold for quantum computation, with the best bound in the most pessimistic error model being 0.5.

id: quant-ph/0301109
title: Discrete supersymmetries of the Schrodinger equation and non-local exactly solvable potentials
authors: Boris F. Samsonov, A. A. Suzko
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 302 (2002) 234-241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301109
abstract: Using an isomorphism between Hilbert spaces $L^2$ and $\ell^{2}$ we consider Hamiltonians which have tridiagonal matrix representations (Jacobi matrices) in a discrete basis and an eigenvalue problem is reduced to solving a three term difference equation. Technique of intertwining operators is applied to creating new families of exactly solvable Jacobi matrices. It is shown that any thus obtained Jacobi matrix gives rise to a new exactly solvable non-local potential of the Schroedinger equation. We also show that the algebraic structure underlying our approach corresponds to supersymmetry. Supercharge operators acting in the space $\ell^{2}\times \ell^{2} $ are introduced which together with a matrix form of the superhamiltonian close the simplest superalgebra.

id: quant-ph/0301110
title: Classical and quantum noise in measurements and transformations
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paoloplacido LoPresti
comments: This paper has been superseeded by quant-ph/0408115
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301110
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn. See quant-ph/0408115: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti and P. Lo Presti, "Classical randomness in quantum measurements"

id: quant-ph/0301111
title: Coherent states for time dependent harmonic oscillator: the step function
authors: H. Moya-Cessa, M. Fernandez-Guasti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 311, 1 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301111
abstract: We study the time evolution for the quantum harmonic oscillator subjected to a sudden change of frequency. It is based on an approximate analytic solution to the time dependent Ermakov equation for a step function. This approach allows for a continuous treatment that differs from former studies that involve the matching of two time independent solutions at the time when the step occurs.

id: quant-ph/0301112
title: Input states for quantum gates
authors: A. Gilchrist, W.J. Munro, A.G. White
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 67, 040304 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301112
abstract: We examine three possible implementations of non-deterministic linear optical cnot gates with a view to an in-principle demonstration in the near future. To this end we consider demonstrating the gates using currently available sources such as spontaneous parametric down conversion and coherent states, and current detectors only able to distinguish between zero or many photons. The demonstration is possible in the co-incidence basis and the errors introduced by the non-optimal input states and detectors are analysed.

id: quant-ph/0301113
title: Asymptotes and characteristic times for transmission and reflection
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 13 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301113
abstract: A complete one-dimensional scattering of a spinless particle on a time-independent potential barrier is considered. To describe separately transmitted and reflected particles in the corresponding subsets of identical experiments, we introduce the notions of scattering channels for transmission and reflection. We find for both channels the (unitary) scattering matrices and reconstruct, by known out asymptotes (i.e., by the transmitted and reflected wave packets), the corresponding in asymptotes. Unlike the out asymptotes for transmission and reflection, their in asymptotes represent nonorthogonal functions. As is shown, the position distributions of to-be-transmitted and to-be-reflected particles, except their average positions, are unpredictable. At the same time, the momentum distributions of these particles are physically meaningful and can be observed to the full. We show that both the subensembles of particles must start (on the average) from the same spatial point, and the momentum distributions of to-be-scattered and scattered particles must be the same for each scattering channel. Taking into account these properties, we define the (individual) delay times for transmission and reflection for wave packets of an arbitrary width. Besides, to estimate the duration of the scattering event, we derive the expression for a (total) scattering time.

id: quant-ph/0301114
title: Explicit solution for a Gaussian wave packet impinging on a square barrier
authors: A. L. Perez Prieto, S. Brouard, J. G. Muga
comments: To be published in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301114
abstract: The collision of a quantum Gaussian wave packet with a square barrier is solved explicitly in terms of known functions. The obtained formula is suitable for performing fast calculations or asymptotic analysis. It also provides physical insight since the description of different regimes and collision phenomena typically requires only some of the terms.

id: quant-ph/0301115
title: Dirac-Like Equation for Two-Level Atom
authors: N.V. Brazovskaja, V.Ye. Brazovsky
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301115
abstract: We construct Dirac-like equation for describing two-level atom interacting with resonant laser field.

id: quant-ph/0301116
title: Quantum information transfer from one system to another one
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: Opening Conference: General theory of information transfer and combinatorics. ZiF, Bielefeld, Nov. 2002, written version of a talk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301116
abstract: The topics of the paper are: a) Some anti-linear maps governing EPR tasks if no reference bases are distinguished. b) Imperfect teleportation and the composition rule. The ancilla is supposed pure but otherwise arbitrary. c) Quantum telportation with distributed measurements. d) Remarks on EPR with a mixed state, triggered by a Lueders measurement.

id: quant-ph/0301117
title: Some Recent Developments in the Decoherent Histories Approach to Quantum Theory
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 26 pages, Latex. To appear in Proceedings of the Conference, Decoherence, Information, Complexity, Entropy (DICE), Piombino, Italy, September, 2002 (edited by T.Elze)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301117
abstract: A brief introduction to the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory is given, with emphasis on its role in the discussion of the emergence of classicality from quantum theory. Some applications are discussed, including quantum-classical couplings, the relationship of the histories approach to quantum state diffusion, and the application of the histories approach to situations involving time in a non-trivial way.

id: quant-ph/0301118
title: Experimental Realization of Entanglement Concentration and A Quantum Repeater
authors: Zhi Zhao, Tao Yang, Yu-Ao Chen, An-Ning Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301118
abstract: We report an experimental realization of entanglement concentration using two polarization-entangled photon pairs produced by pulsed parametric down-conversion. In the meantime, our setup also provides a proof-in-principle demonstration of a quantum repeater. The quality of our procedure is verified by observing a violation of Bell's inequality by more than 5 standard deviations. The high experimental accuracy achieved in the experiment implies that the requirement of tolerable error rate in multi-stage realization of quantum repeaters can be fulfilled, hence providing a practical toolbox for quantum communication over large distances.

id: quant-ph/0301119
title: The continuum limit of the Bell model
authors: Samuel Colin
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301119
abstract: In a paper entitled Beables for Quantum Field Theory, John Bell has shown that it was possible to build a realistic interpretation of any hamiltonian lattice quantum field theory involving Fermi fields. His model is stochastic but Bell thought that it would become deterministic in the continuum limit. We show that it is indeed the case, under an assumption about the state of the universe, namely that the universe is in a state obtained from the positronic sea (all positron states occupied) by creating a finite number of negative charges. Moreover, the continuum model can be established directly. The physical interpretation is the following: the negative charges are in motion in the positronic sea and their positions are the beables of the Bell model.

id: quant-ph/0301120
title: Entanglement Entropy and The Density Matrix Renormalization Group
authors: Jose Gaite
comments: Proceedings of the conference TH2002, 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301120
abstract: Quantum entanglement entropy has a geometric character. This is illustrated by the interpretation of Rindler space or black hole entropy as entanglement entropy. In general, one can define a "geometric entropy", associated with an event horizon as a boundary that concentrates a large number of quantum states. This allows one to connect with the "density matrix renormalization group" and to unveil its connection with the theory of quantum information. This renormalization group has been introduced in condensed matter physics in a heuristic manner, but it can be conceived as a method of compression of quantum information in the presence of a horizon. We propose generalizations to problems of interest in cosmology.

id: quant-ph/0301121
title: Decoherence in quantum spin systems
authors: H. De Raedt, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: 5 pages (llncs.sty, Springer style file), 1 EPS figure. The paper will appear in "Computer Simulation Studies in Condensed-Matter Physics XVI", eds. D.P. Landau et al., Springer Proceedings in Physics (Springer, Berlin, 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301121
abstract: Computer simulations of decoherence in quantum spin systems require the solution of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation for interacting quantum spin systems over extended periods of time. We use exact diagonalization, Chebyshev polynomial technique, four Suzuki-formula algorithms, and the short-iterative-Lanczos method to solve a simple model for decoherence of a quantum spin system by an environment consisting of quantum spins, and compare advantages and limitations of different algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0301122
title: Propagation, breathing and transition of matter-wave packet trains
authors: Wenhua Hai, Chaohong Lee, Guishu Chong
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301122
abstract: We find a set of new exact solutions of a quantum harmonic oscillator, which describes some wave-packet trains with average energy being proportional to both the quantum level and classical energy of the oscillator. Center of the wave-packet trains may oscillate like a classical harmonic oscillator of frequency $\omega$. Width and highness of the trains may change simultaneously with frequency $2 \omega $ as an array of breathers. Under some perturbations the wave-packet trains could transit between the states of different quantum numbers. We demonstrate analytically and numerically that the wave-packet trains can be strictly fitted to the matter-wave soliton trains observed by Strecher et al. and reported in Nature 417, 150(2002). When the wave-packets breathe with greater amplitudes, they show periodic collapse and revival of the matter-wave.

id: quant-ph/0301123
title: Popper's experiment, Copenhagen Interpretation and Nonlocality
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Thoroughly revised. To appear in Int. J. Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 2 (3), (2004) 407-418
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301123
abstract: A thought experiment, proposed by Karl Popper, which has been experimentally realized recently, is critically examined. A basic flaw in Popper's argument which has also been prevailing in subsequent debates, is pointed out. It is shown that Popper's experiment can be understood easily within the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. An alternate experiment, based on discrete variables, is proposed, which constitutes Popper's test in a clearer way. It refutes the argument of absence of nonlocality in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0301124
title: Nonlinear interaction of two photons at a one-dimensional atom: spatiotemporal quantum coherence in the emitted field
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 16 pages, including 8 figures, minor changes to the discussion of cavity design, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 013803 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301124
abstract: The nonlinear photon-photon interaction mediated by a single two-level atom is studied theoretically based on a one-dimensional model of the field-atom interaction. This model allows us to determine the effects of an atomic nonlinearity on the spatiotemporal coherence of a two photon state. Specifically, the complete two photon output wave function can be obtained for any two photon input wave function. It is shown that the quantum interference between the components of the output state associated with different interaction processes causes bunching and anti-bunching in the two photon statistics. This theory may be useful for various applications in photon manipulation, e.g. quantum information processing using photonic qubits, quantum nondemolition measurements, and the generation of entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0301125
title: Bounds on the entropy generated when timing information is extracted from microscopic systems
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301125
abstract: We consider Hamiltonian quantum systems with energy bandwidth \Delta E and show that each measurement that determines the time up to an error \Delta t generates at least the entropy (\hbar/(\Delta t \Delta E))^2/2. Our result describes quantitatively to what extent all timing information is quantum information in systems with limited energy. It provides a lower bound on the dissipated energy when timing information of microscopic systems is converted to classical information. This is relevant for low power computation since it shows the amount of heat generated whenever a band limited signal controls a classical bit switch. Our result provides a general bound on the information-disturbance trade-off for von-Neumann measurements that distinguish states on the orbits of continuous unitary one-parameter groups with bounded spectrum. In contrast, information gain without disturbance is possible for some completely positive semi-groups. This shows that readout of timing information can be possible without entropy generation if the autonomous dynamical evolution of the clock is dissipative itself.

id: quant-ph/0301126
title: Revivals and entanglement from initially entangled mixed states of a damped Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: R. W. Rendell, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301126
abstract: An exact density matrix of a phase-damped Jaynes - Cummings model (JCM) with entangled Bell-like initial states formed from a model two-state atom and sets of adjacent photon number states of a single mode radiation field is presented. The entanglement of the initial states and the subsequent time evolution is assured by finding a positive lower bound on the concurrence of local 2x2 projections of the full 2xinfinity JCM density matrix. It is found that the time evolution of the lower bound of the concurrence systematically captures the corresponding collapse and revival features in atomic inversion, relative entropies of atomic and radiation, mutual entropy, and quantum deficit. The atom and radiation subsystems exhibit alternating sets of collapses and revivals in a complementary fashion due to the initially mixed states of the atom and radiation employed here. This is in contrast with the result obtained when the initial state of the dissipationless system is a factored pure state of atom and radiation, where the atomic and radiation entropies are necessarily the same. The magnitudes of the entanglement lower bound and the atomic and radiation revivals become larger as both magnitude and phase of the Bell-like initial state contribution increases. The time evolution of the entropy difference of the total system and that of the radiation subsystem exhibits negative regions called "supercorrelated" states which do not appear in the atomic subsystem. Entangled initial states are found to enhance this supercorrelated feature. Finally, the effect of phase damping is to randomize both the subsystems for asymptotically long times .

id: quant-ph/0301127
title: Quantum Discord and Maxwell's Demons
authors: Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: This is the final version of quant-ph/0202123, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012320 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301127
abstract: Quantum discord was proposed as an information theoretic measure of the ``quantumness'' of correlations. I show that discord determines the difference between the efficiency of quantum and classical Maxwell's demons -- that is, entities that can or cannot measure nonlocal observables or carry out conditional quantum operations -- in extracting work from collections of correlated quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0301128
title: A multi-photon Stokes-parameter invariant for entangled states
authors: Gregg Jaeger, Mihail Teodorescu-Frumosu, Alexander Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 9 pages, 0 figures, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physics Review A 67, 032307 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301128
abstract: We consider the Minkowskian norm of the n-photon Stokes tensor, a scalar invariant under the group realized by the transformations of stochastic local quantum operations and classical communications (SLOCC). This invariant is offered as a candidate entanglement measure for n-qubit states and discussed in relation to measures of quantum state entanglement for certain important classes of two-qubit and three-qubit systems. This invariant can be directly estimated via a quantum network, obviating the need to perform laborious quantum state tomography. We also show that this invariant directly captures the extent of entanglement purification due to SLOCC filters.

id: quant-ph/0301129
title: Decoherence and Quantum-state Measurement in Quantum Optics
authors: Luiz Davidovich
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures in encapsulated postscript format, Springer LNP LaTeX macros. To appear in the Proceedings of the Conference on Decoherence, Information, Complexity, and Entropy (DICE2002), Piombino, Italy, September, 2002 (edited by T.Elze)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301129
abstract: This paper discusses work developed in recent years, in the domain of quantum optics, which has led to a better understanding of the classical limit of quantum mechanics. New techniques have been proposed, and experimentally demonstrated, for characterizing and monitoring in real time the quantum state of an electromagnetic field in a cavity. They allow the investigation of the dynamics of the decoherence process by which a quantum-mechanical superposition of coherent states of the field becomes a statistical mixture.

id: quant-ph/0301130
title: An efficient scheme for numerical simulations of the spin-bath decoherence
authors: V. V. Dobrovitski, H. A. De Raedt
comments: 8 pages (RevTeX), 3 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301130
abstract: We demonstrate that the Chebyshev expansion method is a very efficient numerical tool for studying spin-bath decoherence of quantum systems. We consider two typical problems arising in studying decoherence of quantum systems consisting of few coupled spins: (i) determining the pointer states of the system, and (ii) determining the temporal decay of quantum oscillations. As our results demonstrate, for determining the pointer states, the Chebyshev-based scheme is at least a factor of 8 faster than existing algorithms based on the Suzuki-Trotter decomposition. For the problems of second type, the Chebyshev-based approach has been 3--4 times faster than the Suzuki-Trotter-based schemes. This conclusion holds qualitatively for a wide spectrum of systems, with different spin baths and different Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0301131
title: Quantum Cryptography Using Single Particle Entanglement
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Eok Kyun Lee, Yong Wook Chung, Hai-Woong Lee, Jaewan Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3figures, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012324 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301131
abstract: A quantum cryptography scheme based on entanglement between a single particle state and a vacuum state is proposed. The scheme utilizes linear optics devices to detect the superposition of the vacuum and single particle states. Existence of an eavesdropper can be detected by using a variant of Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0301132
title: Global-fidelity limits of state-dependent cloning of mixed states
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 8 pages, ReVTeX, 1 figure. In revised form an attainability of presented limits is discussed. Detected errors are corrected. Elucidative figure is added. Minor grammatical changes are made. More explanations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032303 (2003) (6 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301132
abstract: By relevant modifications, the known global-fidelity limits of state-dependent cloning are extended to mixed quantum states. We assume that the ancilla contains some a priori information about the input state. As it is shown, the obtained results contribute to the stronger no-cloning theorem. An attainability of presented limits is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0301133
title: Lagrangian in quantum mechanics is a connection one-form
authors: Pankaj Sharan, Pravabati Chingangbam
comments: 7 pages, revtex 4, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301133
abstract: We recast Dirac's Lagrangian in quantum mechanics in the language of vector bundles and show that the action is an operator-valued connection one-form. Phases associated with change of frames of reference are seen to be total differentials in the transformation of the action. The relativistic case is discussed and we show that it gives the correct phase in the non-relativistic limit for uniform acceleration.

id: quant-ph/0301134
title: Two-Pulse Atomic Coherent Control (2PACC) Spectroscopy of Eley-Rideal Reactions. An Application of an Atom Laser
authors: Solvejg Jorgensen, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 29 pages and 11 figures
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, 119:149, (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301134
abstract: A spectroscopic application of the atom laser is suggested. The spectroscopy termed 2PACC employs the coherent properties of matter-waves from a two pulse atom laser. These waves are employed to control a gas-surface chemical recombination reaction. The method is demonstrated for an Eley-Rideal reaction of a hydrogen or alkali atom-laser pulse where the surface target is an adsorbed hydrogen atom. The reaction yields either a hydrogen or alkali hydride molecule. The desorbed gas phase molecular yield and its internal state is shown to be controlled by the time and phase delay between two atom-laser pulses. The calculation is based on solving the time-dependent Schrodinger equation in a diabatic framework. The probability of desorption which is the predicted 2PACC signal has been calculated as a function of the pulse parameters.

id: quant-ph/0301135
title: Quantum state tomography of dissociating molecules
authors: Esben Skovsen, Henrik Stapelfeldt, Soren Juhl, Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301135
abstract: Using tomographic reconstruction we determine the complete internuclear quantum state, represented by the Wigner function, of a dissociating I2 molecule based on femtosecond time resolved position and momentum distributions of the atomic fragments. The experimental data are recorded by timed ionization of the photofragments with an intense 20 fs laser pulse. Our reconstruction method, which relies on Jaynes' maximum entropy principle, will also be applicable to time resolved position or momentum data obtained with other experimental techniques.

id: quant-ph/0301136
title: Nonadditive generalization of the quantum Kullback-Leibler divergence for measuring the degree of purification
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301136
abstract: The Kullback-Leibler divergence offers an information-theoretic basis for measuring the difference between two given distributions. Its quantum analog, however, fails to play a corresponding role for comparing two density matrices, if the reference states are pure states. Here, it is shown that nonadditive (nonextensive) generalization of quantum information theory is free from such a difficulty and the associated quantity, termed the quantum q-divergence, can in fact be a good information-theoretic measure of the degree of purification. The correspondence relation between the ordinary divergence and the q-divergence is violated for the pure reference states, in general.

id: quant-ph/0301137
title: Monotonic decrease of the quantum nonadditive divergence by projective measurements
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Errors in the published version are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301137
abstract: Nonadditive (nonextensive) generalization of the quantum Kullback-Leibler divergence, termed the quantum q-divergence, is shown not to increase by projective measurements in an elementary manner.

id: quant-ph/0301138
title: Trapped ions interacting with laser fields: a perturbative analysis without rotating wave approximation
authors: P. Aniello, V.Man'ko, G.Marmo, A.Porzio, S.Solimeno, F. Zaccaria
comments: submitted to Journal of Optics B (new extended version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301138
abstract: The Hamiltonian describing a single ion placed in a potential trap in interaction with a laser beam is studied by means of a suitable perturbative approach. It is shown, in particular, that the rotating wave approximation does not provide the correct expression, at the first perturbative order, of the evolution operator of the system.

id: quant-ph/0301139
title: Rayleigh Scattering and Atomic Dynamics in Dissipative Optical Lattices
authors: Francois-Regis Carminati, Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, Michele Schiavoni, Ferruccio Renzoni, Gilbert Grynberg
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters (2003)
journal: Physical Review Letters 90 (2003) 043901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301139
abstract: We investigate Rayleigh scattering in dissipative optical lattices. In particular, following recent proposals (S. Guibal {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 78}, 4709 (1997); C. Jurczak {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 77}, 1727 (1996)), we study whether the Rayleigh resonance originates from the diffraction on a density grating, and is therefore a probe of transport of atoms in optical lattices. It turns out that this is not the case: the Rayleigh line is instead a measure of the cooling rate, while spatial diffusion contributes to the scattering spectrum with a much broader resonance.

id: quant-ph/0301140
title: Geometrical phases for the G(4,2) Grassmannian manifold
authors: Regina Karle, Jiannis Pachos
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, REVTEX, minor typos corrected, to appear in Jour. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 44(6) 2463 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301140
abstract: We generalize the usual abelian Berry phase generated for example in a system with two non-degenerate states to the case of a system with two doubly degenerate energy eigenspaces. The parametric manifold describing the space of states of the first case is formally given by the G(2,1) Grassmannian manifold, while for the generalized system it is given by the G(4,2) one. For the latter manifold which exhibits a much richer structure than its abelian counterpart we calculate the connection components, the field strength and the associated geometrical phases that evolve non-trivially both of the degenerate eigenspaces. A simple atomic model is proposed for their physical implementation.

id: quant-ph/0301141
title: Shor's discrete logarithm quantum algorithm for elliptic curves
authors: John Proos, Christof Zalka
comments: 34 pages Latex, essentially published version, but not using Journal style file
journal: QIC 3 (No. 4) (2003) pp.317-344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301141
abstract: We show in some detail how to implement Shor's efficient quantum algorithm for discrete logarithms for the particular case of elliptic curve groups. It turns out that for this problem a smaller quantum computer can solve problems further beyond current computing than for integer factorisation. A 160 bit elliptic curve cryptographic key could be broken on a quantum computer using around 1000 qubits while factoring the security-wise equivalent 1024 bit RSA modulus would require about 2000 qubits. In this paper we only consider elliptic curves over GF($p$) and not yet the equally important ones over GF($2^n$) or other finite fields. The main technical difficulty is to implement Euclid's gcd algorithm to compute multiplicative inverses modulo $p$. As the runtime of Euclid's algorithm depends on the input, one difficulty encountered is the ``quantum halting problem''.

id: quant-ph/0301142
title: Revisiting Caianiello's Maximal Acceleration
authors: G. Papini
comments: 7 pages
journal: Nuovo Cim.B117:1325-1331,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301142
abstract: A quantum mechanical limit on the speed of orthogonality evolution justifies the last remaining assumption in Caianiello's derivation of the maximal acceleration. The limit is perfectly compatible with the behaviour of superconductors of the first type.

id: quant-ph/0301143
title: Nonequilibrium steady states on 1-d lattice systems and Goldstone theorem
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301143
abstract: On one-dimensional two-way infinite lattice system, a property of stationary (space-) translationally invariant states with nonvanishing current expectations are investigated. We consider GNS representation with respect to such a state, on which we have a group of space-time translation unitary operators. We show, by applying Goldstone-theorem-like argument,that spectrum of the unitary operators, energy-momentum spectrum with respect to the state, has a singularity at the origin.

id: quant-ph/0301144
title: The Lie Algebra Rank Condition for Non-Bilinear Quantum System
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: A short communication that points out that the Lie algebra rank condition used in quantum control theory can be extended to quantum systems that are not bilinear. The extension can be deduced from the literature on Geometric Control. However, to make the paper self contained a proof is given
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301144
abstract: The controllability condition for finite dimensional quantum systems, the Lie Algebra Rank Condition, has been stated assuming that the right invariant differential system under consideration is bilinear. We remark that this assumption is not necessary and discuss the extension to the general case.

id: quant-ph/0301145
title: Two-Level System and Some Approximate Solutions in the Strong Coupling Regime
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex Files, 6 pages, some changes made and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301145
abstract: In this paper we treat the 2--level system interacting with external fields without the rotating wave approximation and construct some approximate solutions in the strong coupling regime.

id: quant-ph/0301146
title: Entanglement and four wave mixing effects in the dissipation free nonlinear interaction of two photons at a single atom
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Kunihiro Kojima, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 10 pages, including 3 figures, correction in eq.(7), updated references, final version for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043813 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301146
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear interaction between two photons in a single input pulse at an atomic two level nonlinearity. A one dimensional model for the propagation of light to and from the atom is used to describe the precise spatiotemporal coherence of the two photon state. It is shown that the interaction generates spatiotemporal entanglement in the output state similar to the entanglement observed in parametric downconversion. A method of generating photon pairs from coherent pump light using this quantum mechanical four wave mixing process is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0301147
title: Quantum Processors and Controllers
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeXe, 7 pp, 2 col, v3: revised and extended (+50%), PhysCon03
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301147
abstract: In this paper is presented an abstract theory of quantum processors and controllers, special kind of quantum computational network defined on a composite quantum system with two parts: the controlling and controlled subsystems. Such approach formally differs from consideration of quantum control as some external influence on a system using some set of Hamiltonians or quantum gates. The model of programmed quantum controllers discussed in present paper is based on theory of universal deterministic quantum processors (programmable gate arrays). Such quantum devices may simulate arbitrary evolution of quantum system and so demonstrate an example of universal quantum control. Keywords: Quantum, Computer, Control, Processor, Universal

id: quant-ph/0301148
title: On the Preparation of Pure States in Resonant Microcavities
authors: Per K. Rekdal, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam, Peter L. Knight
comments: 14 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301148
abstract: We consider the time evolution of the radiation field (R) and a two-level atom (A) in a resonant microcavity in terms of the Jaynes-Cummings model with an initial general pure quantum state for the radiation field. It is then shown, using the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality and also a Poisson resummation technique, that {\it perfect} coherence of the atom can in general never be achieved. The atom and the radiation field are, however, to a good approximation in a pure state $|\psi >_A\otimes|\psi >_R$ in the middle of what has been traditionally called the ``collapse region'', independent of the initial state of the atoms, provided that the initial pure state of the radiation field has a photon number probability distribution which is sufficiently peaked and phase differences that do not vary significantly around this peak. An approximative analytic expression for the quantity $\Tr[\rho^2_{A}(t)]$, where $\rho_{A}(t)$ is the reduced density matrix for the atom, is derived. We also show that under quite general circumstances an initial entangled pure state will be disentangled to the pure state $|\psi >_{A\otimes R}$.

id: quant-ph/0301149
title: Determination of bound state energies for a one-dimensional potential field
authors: D.M. Sedrakian, A.Zh. Khachatrian
comments: a file with three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301149
abstract: A method for determination of bound state energies for an asymmetric quantum well with an arbitrary shape of the bottom is suggested. It is shown that how the equation determining the energy levels can be easily derived if one knows the electron transmission and reflection amplitudes corresponding to the part of potential inside the well. The results are applied to three difference test problems.

id: quant-ph/0301150
title: A Hybrid Authentication Protocol Using Quantum Entanglement and Symmetric Cryptography
authors: D.R. Kuhn
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301150
abstract: This paper presents a hybrid cryptographic protocol, using quantum and classical resources, for authentication and authorization in a network. One or more trusted servers distribute streams of entangled photons to individual resources that seek to communicate. It is assumed that each resource shares a previously distributed secret key with the trusted server, and that resources can communicate with the server using both classical and quantum channels. Resources do not share secret keys with each other, so that the key distribution problem for the network is reduced from O(n^2) to O(n). Some advantages of the protocol are that it avoids the requirement for timestamps used in classical protocols, guarantees that the trusted server cannot know the authentication key, can provide resistance to multiple photon splitting attacks and can be used with BB84 or other quantum key distribution protocols.

id: quant-ph/0301151
title: On classical electrodynamics in Dirac's equation matrix form
authors: Alexander G. Kyriakos
comments: 14 pages, submitted to Found.of Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301151
abstract: In the present paper it is shown that the Maxwell theory can be finely represented in the matrix form of Dirac's equation, if the Dirac wave function is identified with the electromagnetic wave by defined way. It seems to us, that such representation allows us to see new possibilities in the connection of the classical and quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0301152
title: The Bloch Vector for N-Level Systems
authors: Gen Kimura
comments: REVTeX4, 16 pages, 2 EPS figures, add some references, correct some typos
journal: Phys. Lett. A 314, 339 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301152
abstract: We determine the set of the Bloch vectors for N-level systems, generalizing the familiar Bloch ball in 2-level systems. An origin of the structural difference from the Bloch ball in 2-level systems is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0301153
title: Solving a problem in the quantum way
authors: M.P John
comments: 4 pages latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301153
abstract: A general quantum algorithm for solving a problem is discussed. The number of steps required to solve a problem using this method is independent of the number of cases that has to be considered classically. Hence, it is more efficient than existing classical algorithms or quantum algorithm, which requires O(sqrt(N)) steps.

id: quant-ph/0301154
title: Multi-Channel Inverse Scattering Problem on the Line: Thresholds and Bound States
authors: M. Braun, S. A. Sofianos, H. Leeb
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301154
abstract: We consider the multi-channel inverse scattering problem in one-dimension in the presence of thresholds and bound states for a potential of finite support. Utilizing the Levin representation, we derive the general Marchenko integral equation for N-coupled channels and show that, unlike to the case of the radial inverse scattering problem, the information on the bound state energies and asymptotic normalization constants can be inferred from the reflection coefficient matrix alone. Thus, given this matrix, the Marchenko inverse scattering procedure can provide us with a unique multi-channel potential. The relationship to supersymmetric partner potentials as well as possible applications are discussed. The integral equation has been implemented numerically and applied to several schematic examples showing the characteristic features of multi-channel systems. A possible application of the formalism to technological problems is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0301155
title: Is the concept of quantum probability consistent with Lorentz covariance?
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: RevTex 12 pages, 4 figures, presented at the Second International Conference on Foundations of Probability in Physics (Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301155
abstract: Lorentz-covariant harmonic oscillator wave functions are constructed from the Lorentz-invariant oscillator differential equation of Feynman, Kislinger, and Ravndal for a two-body bound state. The wave functions are not invariant but covariant. As the differential equation contains the time-separation variable, the wave functions contain the same time-separation variable which does not exist in Schr\"odinger wave functions. This time-separation variable can be shown to belong to Feynman's rest of the universe, and can thus be eliminated from the density matrix. The covariant probability interpretation is given. This oscillator formalism explains Feynman's decoherence mechanism which is exhibited in Feynman's parton picture.

id: quant-ph/0301156
title: Wave-packet trains of a time-dependent harmonic oscillator
authors: Wenhua Hai, Shengxun Huang, Kelin Gao
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301156
abstract: By using a test-function method, we construct $n$ exact solutions of a quantum harmonic oscillator with a time-dependent "spring constant". Any $n$-th solution describes a wave-packet train consisting of $n+1$ packets. Its center oscillates like the classically harmonic oscillator with variable frequency, and width and highness of each packet change simultaneously. When the deformation is small, it behaves like a soliton train, and the large deformation is identified with collapse and revival of the wave-packet train.

id: quant-ph/0301157
title: Experimental investigation of delayed self-interference for single photons
authors: Nicklas Ohlsson, Mattias Nilsson, Stefan Kroll
comments: 26 pages including 7 figures; Reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063812 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301157
abstract: A photon echo experiment has been performed using accumulated highly attenuated laser pulses. We show experimentally that the photon echo process can be performed with, on the average, less than one photon in each pair of excitation pulses. The results support an interpretation where this non-linear process can be performed with, on the average, less than one photon shared between two of the optical fields involved in the degenerate four-wave mixing process. Further, we argue that the experiment can be interpreted as a form of delayed self-interference for photon wave packets that do not overlap in both space and time.

id: quant-ph/0301158
title: Theory of deep ultraviolet generation at maximum coherence assisted by Stark-chirped two-photon resonance
authors: S.A.Myslivets, A.K.Popov, V.V.Kimberg, Thomas F.George
comments: 26 pages, 20 figures
journal: A chapter in Modern Topics in Chemical Physics, ed. by T.F.George, X.Sun and G.P.Zhang, Research Signpost, Trivandrum, India, 2002, pp. 163-182
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301158
abstract: A scheme is analyzed for effcient generation of vacuum ultraviolet radiation through four-wave mixing processes assisted by the technique of Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passage. These opportunities are associated with pulse excitation of laddertype short-wavelength two-photon atomic or molecular transitions so that relaxation processes can be neglected. In this three-laser technique, a delayed-pulse of strong oR-resonant infrared radiation sweeps the laser-induced Stark-shift of a two-photon transition in a such way that facilitates robust maximum two-photon coherence induced by the first ultraviolet laser. A judiciously delayed third pulse scatters at this coherence and generates short-wavelength radiation. A theoretical analysis of these problems based on the density matrix is performed. A numerical model is developed to carry out simulations of a typical experiment. The results illustrate a behavior of populations, coherence and generated radiation along the medium as well as opportunities of effcient generation of deep (vacuum) ultraviolet radiation.

id: quant-ph/0301159
title: Some methods for solution of quantum detection and measurement problems
authors: Boris A. Grishanin
comments: 11 pages, no figures, RevTeX
journal: Tekhnicheskaya Kibernetika, vol. 11 (5), pp. 127-137 (1973) (In Russian)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301159
abstract: Representation of the quantum measurement with the help of non-orthogonal decomposition of unit is presented in the paper for the first time. Methods for solution of the quantum detection and measurement problems based on the suggested representation are proposed, as well.

id: quant-ph/0301160
title: A tentative new approach to the Schr?dinger cat problem
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301160
abstract: Though scientifically unconvincing, the Broglie-Bohm model has the virtue of reproducing the observational predictions of quantum mechanics while being conceptually crystal-clear. Hence, even if we do not believe in it, we may find it useful in suggesting ways of removing conceptual difficulties. This procedure is here applied to the Schr\"odinger cat riddle (in its Wigner version). The outcome yields tentative views on the relationship between mentality and physical reality.

id: quant-ph/0301161
title: An Algorithm of a Virtual Quantum Computer Model on a Classical Computer
authors: T.F. Kamalov, Yu.P. Rybakov
comments: 6 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301161
abstract: Construction of virtual quantum states became possible due to the hypothesis on the nature of quantum states quant-ph/0212139. This study considers a stochastic geometrical background (stochastic gravitational background) generating correlation (or, coherency) of various quantum non-interacting objects. In the quantum state virtual model, a simple method of generating of two (or more) dichotomic signals with controlled mutual correlation factor from a single continuous stochastic process is implemented. Basing on the system random number generator of the computer, a model of the stationary random phase (with the nature of random geometrical background).

id: quant-ph/0301162
title: Investigating three qubit entanglement with local measurements
authors: Otfried Guehne, Philipp Hyllus
comments: 11 pages and one figure, submitted to the proceedings of the conference "QCS 2002" in Ustron (Poland). v2: Equation (25) corrected
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 42, 1001-1013 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301162
abstract: In this paper we describe how three qubit entanglement can be analyzed with local measurements. For this purpose we decompose entanglement witnesses into operators which can be measured locally. Our decompositions are optimized in the number of measurement settings needed for the measurement of one witness. Our method allows to detect true threepartite entanglement and especially GHZ-states with only four measurement settings.

id: quant-ph/0301163
title: Quantum Arithmetic on Galois Fields
authors: Stephane Beauregard, Gilles Brassard, Jose M. Fernandez
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures. This is the most recent version, dated 11 April 02. Paper only posted now in reply to quant-ph/0301141, whose results are complementary to ours and were obtained independently
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301163
abstract: In this paper we discuss the problem of performing elementary finite field arithmetic on a quantum computer. Of particular interest, is the controlled-multiplication operation, which is the only group-specific operation in Shor's algorithms for factoring and solving the Discrete Log Problem. We describe how to build quantum circuits for performing this operation on the generic Galois fields GF($p^k$), as well as the boundary cases GF($p$) and GF($2^k$). We give the detailed size, width and depth complexity of such circuits, which ultimately will allow us to obtain detailed upper bounds on the amount of quantum resources needed to solve instances of the DLP on such fields.

id: quant-ph/0301164
title: Efficient engineering of multi-atom entanglement through single-photon detections
authors: L.-M. Duan, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 253601 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301164
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme to engineer multi-atom entanglement by detecting cavity decay through single-photon detectors. In the special case of two atoms, this scheme is much more efficient than previous probabilistic schemes, and insensitive to randomness in the atom's position. More generally, the scheme can be used to prepare arbitrary superpositions of multi-atom Dicke states without the requirements of high-efficiency detection and separate addressing of different atoms.

id: quant-ph/0301165
title: Parametric beating of a quantum probe field with a prepared Raman coherence in a far-off-resonance medium
authors: Fam Le Kien, K. Hakuta
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Phys. Rev. A (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301165
abstract: We investigate the parametric beating of a quantum probe field with a prepared Raman coherence in a far-off-resonance medium, and describe the resulting multiplexing processes. We show that the normalized autocorrelation functions of the probe field are exactly reproduced in the Stokes and anti-Stokes sideband fields. We find that an initial coherent state of the probe field can be replicated to the Raman sidebands, and an initial squeezing of the probe field can be partially transferred to the sidebands. We show that a necessary condition for the output fields to be in an entangled state or, more generally, in a nonclassical state is that the input field state is a nonclassical state.

id: quant-ph/0301166
title: Dynamic effects of electromagnetic wave on a damped two-level atom
authors: Z. Y. Zeng, G. J. Zeng, L. M. Kuang, L. D. Zhang
comments: latex, 2 figures
journal: phys. lett. A 261 316-326 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301166
abstract: We studied the dynamic effects of an electromagnetic(EM) wave with circular polarization on a two-level damped atom. The results demonstrate interesting ac Stark split of energy levels of damped atom. The split levels have different energies and lifetimes, both of which depend on the interaction and the damping rate of atom. When the frequency of the EM wave is tuned to satisfy the resonance condition in the strong coupling limit, the transition probability exhibits Rabi oscillation. Momentum transfer between atom and EM wave shows similar properties as the transition probability under resonance condition. For a damped atom interacting with EM field, there exists no longer stable state. More importantly, if the angular frequency of the EM wave is tuned the same as the atomic transition frequency and its amplitude is adjusted appropriately according to the damping coefficients, we can prepare a particular 'Dressed State' of the coupled system between atom and EM field and can keep the system coherently in this 'Dressed state' for a very long time. This opens another way to prepare coherent atomic states.

id: quant-ph/0301167
title: Comment on "Quantum mechanics of smeared particles"
authors: F. Brau
comments: 2 pages
journal: J. Phys. A36, 1523 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301167
abstract: In a recent article, Sastry has proposed a quantum mechanics of smeared particles. We show that the effects induced by the modification of the Heisenberg algebra, proposed to take into account the delocalization of a particle defined via its Compton wavelength, are important enough to be excluded experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0301168
title: Real clocks and the Zeno effect
authors: I. L. Egusquiza, L. J. Garay
comments: 12 a4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301168
abstract: Real clocks are not perfect. This must have an effect in our predictions for the behaviour of a quantum system, an effect for which we present a unified description encompassing several previous proposals. We study the relevance of clock errors in the Zeno effect, and find that generically no Zeno effect can be present (in such a way that there is no contradiction with currently available experimental data). We further observe that, within the class of stochasticities in time addressed here, there is no modification in emission lineshapes.

id: quant-ph/0301169
title: Violation of Bell's Inequality with Photons from Independent Sources
authors: T.B. Pittman, J.D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 90, 240401 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301169
abstract: We report a violation of Bell's inequality using one photon from a parametric down-conversion source and a second photon from an attenuated laser beam. The two photons were entangled at a beam splitter using the post-selection technique of Shih and Alley [Phys. Rev. Lett. 61, 2921 (1988)]. A quantum interference pattern with a visibility of 91% was obtained using the photons from these independent sources, as compared with a visibility of 99.4% using two photons from a central parametric down-conversion source.

id: quant-ph/0301170
title: Experimental Phase-Sensitive Cloning
authors: John C. Howell, Irfan A. Khan, Dik Bouwmeester, N.P. Bigelow
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301170
abstract: This article has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0301171
title: Entropy inequalities and Bell inequalities for two-qubit systems
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: Errors corrected. See L. Jakobcyk, quant-ph/0409087
journal: Phys. Rev. A69, 022305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301171
abstract: Sufficient conditions for (the non-violation of) the Bell-CHSH inequalities in a mixed state of a two-qubit system are: 1) The linear entropy of the state is not smaller than 0.5, 2) The sum of the conditional linear entropies is non-negative, 3) The von Neumann entropy is not smaller than 0.833, 4) The sum of the conditional von Neumann entropies is not smaller than 0.280.

id: quant-ph/0301172
title: Topics in Koopman-von Neumann Theory
authors: D. Mauro
comments: 179 pages, Latex, Ph.D. Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301172
abstract: In this thesis we study several features of the operatorial approach to classical mechanics pionereed by Koopman and von Neumann (KvN) in the Thirties. In particular in the first part we study the role of the phases of the KvN states. We analyze, within the KvN theory, the two-slit experiment and the Aharonov-Bohm effect and we make a comparison between the classical and the quantum case. In the second part of the thesis we study the extension of the KvN formalism to the space of forms and Jacobi fields. We first show that all the standard Cartan calculus on symplectic spaces can be performed via Grassmann variables or via suitable combinations of Pauli matrices. Second we study the extended Hilbert space of KvN which now includes forms and prove that it is impossible to have at the same time a positive definite scalar product and a unitary evolution. Clear physical reasons for this phenomenon are exhibited. We conclude the thesis with some work in progress on the issue of quantization.

id: quant-ph/0301173
title: Spherical Manifold in Quantum Evolution
authors: Aalok Pandya, Ashok K. Nagawat
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301173
abstract: In this paper, the projective geometry is used to describe the features of spherical manifold and discreteness in quantum evolution. As a system evolves in time the state vector changes and it traces out a curve in Hilbert space. Geometrically, the evolution is represented as a closed curve in the projective Hilbert space. In recent times many attempts have been made to describe 'length', 'distance', and 'geometric phases' and also 'parallel transport'and symplectic geometry in various ways in the projective Hilbert space, during quantum evolution. It is shown in this paper that for the quantum evolution in ray space, spherical manifold and features of discreteness can be described geometrically.

id: quant-ph/0301174
title: Invariants of multiple-qubit systems under stochastic local operations
authors: Gregg Jaeger, Mihail Teodorescu-Frumosu, Alexander Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 12 pages, 0 figures. Contribution to the international conference Foundations of probability and physics 2, June 2 through June 7, 2002, held at the International Center for Mathematical Modelling in physics, engineering and cognitive sciences, Vaxjo University, Vaxjo, Sweden (to appear in proceedings of the conference.) This contribution presents in full detail the formal context for the invariant length discussed in quant-ph/0301128
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301174
abstract: We investigate the behavior of quantum states under stochastic local quantum operations and classical communication (SLOCC) for fixed numbers of qubits. We explicitly exhibit the homomorphism between complex and real groups for two-qubits, and use the latter to describe the effect of SLOCC operations on two-qubit states. We find an expression for the polarization Lorentz group invariant length, which is the Minkowskian analog of the quantum state purity, the corresponding Euclidean length. The construction presented is immediately generalizable to any finite number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0301175
title: Optimal phase covariant cloning for qubits and qutrits
authors: G.M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301175
abstract: We consider cloning transformations of equatorial qubits and qutrits, with the transformation covariant for rotation of the phases. The optimal cloning maps are derived without simplifying assumptions from first principles, for any number of input and output qubits, and for a single input qutrit and any number of output qutrits. We also compare the cloning maps for global and single particle fidelities, and we show that the two criteria lead to different optimal maps.

id: quant-ph/0301176
title: A projection operator technique for solution of relativistic wave equation on non-compact group: the case of a charged vector-boson
authors: Halina V. Grushevskaya, Leonid I. Gurskii
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301176
abstract: A projection operator technique for solution of relativistic wave equation on non-compact group has been proposed. This technique was applied to the construction of wave equations for charged vector boson in a potential field. The equations were shown to approximately describe a hydrogen-like atom and allow estimating of relativistic corrections such as a fine structure of hydrogen atom lines with high accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0301177
title: Chained Typical Subspaces - a Quantum Version of Breiman's Theorem
authors: Igor Bjelakovic, Tyll Krueger, Rainer Siegmund-Schultze, Arleta Szkola
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301177
abstract: We give an equivalent finitary reformulation of the classical Shannon-McMillan-Breiman theorem which has an immediate translation to the case of ergodic quantum lattice systems. This version of a quantum Breiman theorem can be derived from the proof of the quantum Shannon-McMillan theorem presented in our previous work (math.DS/0207121).

id: quant-ph/0301178
title: Long distance quantum teleportation of qubits from photons at 1300 nm to photons at 1550 nm wavelength
authors: I. Marcikic, H. de Riedmatten, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, Extended version of Nature letter
journal: Nature 421, 509-513 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301178
abstract: Elementary 2-dimensional quantum states (qubits) encoded in 1300 nm wavelength photons are teleported onto 1550 nm photons. The use of telecommunication wavelengths enables to take advantage of standard optical fibre and permits to teleport from one lab to a distant one, 55 m away, connected by 2 km of fibre. A teleportation fidelity of 81.2 % is reported. This is large enough to demonstrate the principles of quantum teleportation, in particular that entanglement is exploited. This experiment constitutes a first step towards a quantum repeater.

id: quant-ph/0301179
title: Exact solution of the time-dependent harmonic plus an inverse harmonic potential with a time-dependent electromagnetic field
authors: Cem Yuce
comments: 6 pages, RevTex formatted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301179
abstract: In this article, the problem of the charged harmonic plus an inverse harmonic oscillator with time-dependent mass and frequency in a time-dependent electromagnetic field is investigated. It is reduced to the problem of the inverse harmonic oscillator with time-independent parameters and the exact wave function is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0301180
title: Moving Atom-Field Interactions: Quantum Motional Decoherence and Relaxation
authors: S. Shresta, B. L. Hu
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012110 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301180
abstract: The reduced dynamics of an atomic qubit coupled both to its own quantized center of mass motion through the spatial mode functions of the electromagnetic field, as well as the vacuum modes, is calculated in the influence functional formalism. The formalism chosen can describe the entangled non-Markovian evolution of the system with a full account of the coherent back-action of the environment on the qubit. We find a slight increase in the decoherence due to the quantized center of mass motion and give a condition on the mass and qubit resonant frequency for which the effect is important. In optically resonant alkali-metal atom systems, we find the effect to be negligibly small. The framework presented here can nevertheless be used for general considerations of the coherent evolution of qubits in moving atoms in an electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0301181
title: Quantum communications with time-bin entangled photons: long distance quantum teleportation and quantum repeaters
authors: N. Gisin, I. Marcikic, H. de Riedmatten, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing (QCMC 02)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301181
abstract: Using 2 km of standard telecom optical fibres, we teleport qubits carried by photons of 1310 nm wavelength to qubits in another lab carried by a photons of 1550 nm wavelength. The photons to be teleported and the necessary entangled photon pairs are created in two different non-linear crystals. The measured mean fidelity is of 81.2 %. We discuss how this could be used as quantum repeaters without quantum memories.

id: quant-ph/0301182
title: Decoherence in Discrete Quantum Walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Ben Tregenna
comments: 15 pages, Springer LNP latex style, submitted to Proceedings of DICE 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0301182
abstract: We present an introduction to coined quantum walks on regular graphs, which have been developed in the past few years as an alternative to quantum Fourier transforms for underpinning algorithms for quantum computation. We then describe our results on the effects of decoherence on these quantum walks on a line, cycle and hypercube. We find high sensitivity to decoherence, increasing with the number of steps in the walk, as the particle is becoming more delocalised with each step. However, the effect of a small amount of decoherence can be to enhance the properties of the quantum walk that are desirable for the development of quantum algorithms, such as fast mixing times to uniform distributions.

id: astro-ph/0301566
title: Fine-structure constant variability: surprises for laboratory atomic spectroscopy and cosmological evolution of quasar spectra
authors: Jacob D. Bekenstein
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0301566
abstract: Calculation of the Dirac hydrogen atom spectrum in the framework of dynamical fine structure constant (alpha) variability discloses a small departure in the laboratory from Sommerfeld's formula for the fine structure shifts, possibly measurable today. And for a distant object in the universe, the wavelength shift of a spectral line specifically ascribable to cosmological alpha variation is found to depend differently on the quantum numbers than in the conventional view. This last result clashes with the conventional wisdom that an atom's spectrum can change with cosmological time only through evolution of the alpha parameter in the energy eigenvalue formula, and thus impacts on the Webb group's analysis of fine structure intervals in quasar absorption lines (which has been claimed to disclose cosmological alpha evolution). In particular, analyzing together a mix of quasar absorption lines from different fine structure multiplets can bias estimates of cosmological alpha variability.

id: cond-mat/0301044
title: Dynamics of Uncertainty in Nonequilibrium Random Motion
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Significant revision plus title and abstract modification. Presented at XVII Marian Smoluchowski Symposium on Statistical Physics, Zakopane, Poland, September 4-9, 2004
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 36, 1561-1577, (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301044
abstract: Shannon information entropy is a natural measure of probability (de)localization and thus (un)predictability in various procedures of data analysis for model systems. We pay particular attention to links between the Shannon entropy and the related Fisher information notion, which jointly account for the shape and extension of continuous probability distributions. Classical, dynamical and random systems in general give rise to time-dependent probability densities and associated information measures. The induced dynamics of Shannon and Fisher functionals reveals an interplay among various characteristics of the considered diffusion-type systems: information, uncertainty and localization while put against mean energy and its balance.

id: cond-mat/0301055
title: Spin Relaxation of Conduction Electrons in Semiconductors Due to Interaction with Nuclear Spins
authors: Yuriy V. Pershin, Vladimir Privman
comments: submitted to Nano Letters
journal: Nano Letters 3, 695-700 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301055
abstract: Relaxation of conduction electron spins in a semiconductor owing to the hyperfine interaction with spin-1/2 nuclei, in zero applied magnetic field, is investigated. We calculate the electron spin relaxation time scales, in order to evaluate the importance of this relaxation mechanism. Master equations for the electron spin density matrix are derived and solved. Polarized nuclear spins can be used to polarize the electrons in spintronic devices.

id: cond-mat/0301111
title: Entanglement and decoherence in near-critical qubit chains
authors: D. V. Khveshchenko
comments: Latex, 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B68, 193307 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301111
abstract: We study the problem of environmentally-induced decoherence in a near-critical one-dimensional system of N>>1 coupled qubits. Using the Jordan-Wigner fermion representation of the qubit operators we identify the decoherence rates relevant for the two-qubit reduced density matrix. We find that a desirable onset of massive shared entanglement in the near-critical regime comes at the expense of decoherence which also tends to increase as the system is tuned towards criticality. Our results reveal rather contradictory general requirements that future designs of a qubit chain-based quantum information processor will need to satisfy.

id: cond-mat/0301178
title: Quantum phase diffusions of a spinor condensate
authors: S. Yi, ?. E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301178
abstract: We discuss the quantum phases and their diffusion in a spinor-1 atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. For ferromagnetic interactions, we obtain the exact ground state distribution of the phase fluctuations corresponding to the total atom number ($N$), the magnetization (${\cal M}$), and the alignment (or hypercharge) ($Y$) of the system. The mean field ground state is shown to be stable against these fluctuations, which dynamically recover the two continuous symmetries associated with the conservation of $N$ and ${\cal M}$ as in current experiments.

id: cond-mat/0301343
title: Information theory and generalized statistics
authors: Petr Jizba
comments: Invited talk at the International Workshop DICE2002 "Decoherence, Information, Complexity and Entropy" - Piombino (Tuscany), September 2-6, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301343
abstract: We present a discussion of generalized statistics based on Renyi's, Fisher's and Tsallis's measures of information. The unifying conceptual framework which we employ here is provided by information theory. Important applications of generalized statistics to systems with (multi-)fractal structure are examined.

id: cond-mat/0301395
title: Virial expansion for almost diagonal random matrices
authors: Oleg Yevtushenko, Vladimir Kravtsov
comments: 35 pages, 10 figures, improved abstract and introduction, one more example added, typos corrected, submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: J.Phys.A36:8265-8289,2003
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301395
abstract: Energy level statistics of Hermitian random matrices $\hat H$ with Gaussian independent random entries $H_{i\geq j}$ is studied for a generic ensemble of almost diagonal random matrices with $ <|H_{ii}|^{2} > \sim 1$ and $<|H_{i\neq j}|^{2} >= b {\cal F}(|i-j|) \ll 1$. We perform a regular expansion of the spectral form-factor $K(\tau) = 1 + b K_{1}(\tau) + b^{2} K_{2}(\tau) + ... $ in powers of $b \ll 1$ with the coefficients $K_{m}(\tau)$ that take into account interaction of (m+1) energy levels. To calculate $K_{m}(\tau)$, we develop a diagrammatic technique which is based on the Trotter formula and on the combinatorial problem of graph edges coloring with (m+1) colors. Expressions for $K_{1}(\tau)$ and $K_{2}(\tau)$ in terms of infinite series are found for a generic function ${\cal F}(|i-j|)$ in the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble (GOE), the Gaussian Unitary Ensemble (GUE) and in the crossover between them (the almost unitary Gaussian ensemble). The Rosenzweig-Porter and power-law banded matrix ensembles are considered as examples.

id: cond-mat/0301409
title: Relaxation and Zeno effect in qubit measurements
authors: S.A. Gurvitz, L. Fedichkin, D. Mozyrsky, G.P. Berman
comments: some clarifications added, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 066801 (2003).
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301409
abstract: We consider a qubit interacting with its environment and continuously monitored by a detector represented by a point contact. Bloch-type equations describing the entire system of the qubit, the environment and the detector are derived. Using these equations we evaluate the detector current and its noise spectrum in terms of the decoherence and relaxation rates of the qubit. Simple expressions are obtained that show how these quantities can be accurately measured. We demonstrate that due to interaction with the environment, the measurement can never localize a qubit even for infinite decoherence rate.

id: cond-mat/0301524
title: Linear quantum measurements
authors: D.V. Averin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301524
abstract: Linear response theory describes quantum measurement with an arbitrary detector weakly coupled to a measured system. This description produces generic quantitative relation characterizing the detector that is analogous to the fluctuation-dissipation theorem for equilibrium systems. The detector characteristic obtained in this way shows how efficient the trade-off is between the back-action dephasing and information acquisition by the detector.

id: cond-mat/0301581
title: Spin-based quantum computing using electrons on liquid helium
authors: S.A. Lyon
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. This is a considerably revised version. Some of the approaches suggested for devices have changed. In particular I have eliminated the Stern-Gerlach devices, since they would be difficult to make (though possible, I think, but you'll need to look in v1 for the discussion). More spin decoherence mechanisms have been considered and typos (including some in equations) have been fixed. However, the basic ideas and conclusions are unchanged. This version has been submitted to Phys. Rev. A. (and I'll try to get it cross-listed in quant-ph, where it probably belongs)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301581
abstract: Numerous physical systems have been proposed for constructing quantum computers, but formidable obstacles stand in the way of making even modest systems with a few hundred quantum bits (qubits). Several approaches utilize the spin of an electron as the qubit. Here it is suggested that the spin of electrons floating on the surface of liquid helium will make excellent qubits. These electrons can be electrostatically held and manipulated much like electrons in semiconductor heterostructures, but being in a vacuum the spins on helium suffer much less decoherence. In particular, the spin orbit interaction is reduced so that moving the qubits with voltages applied to gates has little effect on their coherence. Remaining sources of decoherence are considered and it is found that coherence times for electron spins on helium can be expected to exceed 100 s. It is shown how to obtain a controlled-NOT operation between two qubits using the magnetic dipole-dipole interaction.

id: cond-mat/0301587
title: On the dual topological quantum numbers filling factors
authors: Wellington da Cruz
comments: Typos corrected, references added and updated, 8 pages, latex. Comments on paper W. Pan et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 016801 (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301587
abstract: We consider recent experimental results [W. Pan {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 016801 (2003)] for occurrence of the fractional quantum Hall effect-FQHE under the perspective of our formulation in terms of {\it fractons}. These objects carry rational or irrational values of spin and satisfy a {\it fractal distribution function} associated with a {\it fractal von Neumann entropy}. According to our approach the {\it FQHE occurs in pairs of dual topological quantum numbers fillings factors} and this geometrical character comes from the {\it connection betwenn the fractal parameter or Hausdorff dimension $h$ and the spin $s$ of the particles}. We suggest to the experimentalists consider our ideas and verify in fact that this phenomenon of FQHE satisfy a {\it symmetry principle} discovered by us, i.e, {\it the duality symmetry betwenn universal classes of fractons}.

id: cond-mat/0301612
title: Spin swap gate in the presence of qubit inhomogeneity in a double quantum dot
authors: Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052310 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301612
abstract: We study theoretically the effects of qubit inhomogeneity on the quantum logic gate of qubit swap, which is an integral part of the operations of a quantum computer. Our focus here is to construct a robust pulse sequence for swap operation in the simultaneous presence of Zeeman inhomogeneity for quantum dot trapped electron spins and the finite-time ramp-up of exchange coupling in a double dot. We first present a geometric explanation of spin swap operation, mapping the two-qubit operation onto a single-qubit rotation. We then show that in this geometric picture a square-pulse-sequence can be easily designed to perform swap in the presence of Zeeman inhomogeneity. Finally, we investigate how finite ramp-up times for the exchange coupling $J$ negatively affect the performance of the swap gate sequence, and show how to correct the problems numerically.

id: cond-mat/0301614
title: Entanglement of Electron Spin and Orbital States in Spintronic Quantum Transport
authors: Branislav K. Nikolic
comments: 5 pages, 2 color EPS figures; one new figure and discussion of some conceptual issues related to spin-polarization in quantum transport
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0301614
abstract: An electron within a mesoscopic (quantum-coherent) spintronic structure is described by a single wave function which, in the presence of both charge scattering and spin-orbit coupling, encodes an information about {\em entanglement} of its spin and orbital degrees of freedom. The quantum state--an {\em improper} mixture--of experimentally detectable spin subsystem is elucidated by evaluating quantum information theory measures of entanglement in the scattering states which determine {\em quantum transport} properties of spin-polarized electrons injected into a two-dimensional disordered Rashba spin-split conductor that is attached to the ferromagnetic source and drain electrodes. Thus, the Landauer transmission matrix, traditionally evaluated to obtain the spin-resolved conductances, also yields the reduced spin density operator allowing us to extract quantum-mechanical measures of the detected electron spin-polarization and spin-coherence, thereby pointing out how to avoid detrimental {\em decoherence} effects on spin-encoded information transport through semiconductor spintronic devices.

id: gr-qc/0301068
title: Back-action cancellation in interferometers by quantum locking
authors: J.-M. Courty, A. Heidmann, M. Pinard
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX
journal: Europhys.Lett.63:226-232,2003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0301068
abstract: We show that back-action noise in interferometric measurements such as gravitational-waves detectors can be completely suppressed by a local control of mirrors motion. An optomechanical sensor with an optimized measurement strategy is used to monitor mirror displacements. A feedback loop then eliminates radiation-pressure effects without adding noise. This very efficient technique leads to an increased sensitivity for the interferometric measurement, which becomes only limited by phase noise. Back-action cancellation is furthermore insensitive to losses in the interferometer.

id: gr-qc/0301109
title: Emergent discrete time and quantization: relativistic particle with extradimensions
authors: H.-T. Elze
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures; replaced with embedded figures and fixed layout
journal: Phys.Lett.A310:110-118,2003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0301109
abstract: We study the reparametrization invariant system of a classical relativistic particle moving in (5+1) dimensions, of which two internal ones are compactified to form a torus. A discrete physical time is constructed based on a quasi-local invariant observable. Due to ergodicity, it is simply related to the proper time on average. The external motion in Minkowski space can then be described as a unitary quantum mechanical evolution.

id: gr-qc/0301117
title: The origin of causal set structure in the quantum universe
authors: Jon Eakins, George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: Updated version with four new figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0301117
abstract: We discuss the origin of causal set structure and the emergence of classical space and time in the universe. Given that the universe is a closed self-referential quantum automaton with a quantum register consisting of a vast number of elementary quantum subregisters, we find two distinct but intimately related causal sets. One of these is associated with the factorization and entanglement properties of states of the universe and encodes phenomena such as quantum correlations and violations of Bell-type inqualities. The concepts of separations and entanglements of states are used to show how state reduction dynamics generates the familial relationships which gives this causal set structure. The other causal set structure is generated by the factorization properties of the observables (the Hermitian operators) over the quantum register. The concept of skeleton sets of operators is used to show how the factorization properties of these operators could generate the classical causal set structures associated with Einstein locality.

id: gr-qc/0301122
title: Kerr black hole quasinormal frequencies
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 081501
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0301122
abstract: Black-hole quasinormal modes (QNM) have been the subject of much recent attention, with the hope that these oscillation frequencies may shed some light on the elusive theory of quantum gravity. We compare numerical results for the QNM spectrum of the (rotating) Kerr black hole with an {\it exact} formula Re$\omega \to T_{BH}\ln 3+\Omega m$, which is based on Bohr's correspondence principle. We find a close agreement between the two. Possible implications of this result to the area spectrum of quantum black holes are discussed.

id: hep-ph/0301145
title: Quantum states of neutrons in the gravitational field and limits for non-Newtonian interaction in the range between 1 micron and 10 microns
authors: Hartmut Abele, Stefan Baessler, Alexander Westphal
comments: Aspects of Quantum Gravity, ed. by C. Laemmerzahl, Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg 2003, (Lecture notes in physics)
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 631 (2003) 355-366
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0301145
abstract: Quantum states in the Earth's gravitational field can be observed, when ultra-cold neutrons fall under gravity. In an experiment at the Institut Laue-Langevin in Grenoble, neutrons are reflected and trapped in a gravitational cavity above a horizontal mirror. The population of the ground state and the lowest states follows, step by step, the quantum mechanical prediction. An efficient neutron absorber removes the higher, unwanted states. The quantum states probe Newtonian gravity on the micrometer scale and we place limits for gravity-like forces in the range between 1 micron and 10 microns.

id: hep-th/0301007
title: Structures of q-Deformed Currents
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 13. Physics Letters (in press)
journal: Phys.Lett. B554 (2003) 223-229
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301007
abstract: The non-perturbation and perturbation structures of the q-deformed probability currents are studied. According to two ways of realizing the q-deformed Heisenberg algebra by the undeformed operators, the perturbation structures of two q-deformed probability currents are explored in detail. Locally the structures of two perturbation q-deformed probability currents are different, one is explicitly potential dependent; the other is not. But their total contributions to the whole space are the same.

id: hep-th/0301052
title: On Hamiltonian formulations of the Schr?dinger system
authors: L¨¢szl¨® ?. Gergely
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys. 298 (2002) 394-402
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301052
abstract: We review and compare different variational formulations for the Schr\"{o}dinger field. Some of them rely on the addition of a conveniently chosen total time derivative to the hermitic Lagrangian. Alternatively, the Dirac-Bergmann algorithm yields the Schr\"{o}dinger equation first as a consistency condition in the full phase space, second as canonical equation in the reduced phase space. The two methods lead to the same (reduced) Hamiltonian. As a third possibility, the Faddeev-Jackiw method is shown to be a shortcut of the Dirac method. By implementing the quantization scheme for systems with second class constraints, inconsistencies of previous treatments are eliminated.

id: hep-th/0301053
title: Confinement of neutral fermions by a pseudoscalar double-step potential in (1+1) dimensions
authors: Antonio S. de Castro, Wiliam G. Pereira
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett. A308 (2003) 131-134
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301053
abstract: The problem of confinement of neutral fermions in two-dimensional space-time is approached with a pseudoscalar double-step potential in the Dirac equation. Bound-state solutions are obtained when the coupling is of sufficient intensity. The confinement is made plausible by arguments based on effective mass and anomalous magnetic interaction.

id: hep-th/0301062
title: Nonlinear supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanics: algebraic properties and differential representation
authors: A. A. Andrianov, A. V. Sokolov
comments: 28 pages, Latex, minor improvements and removed misprints
journal: Nucl.Phys. B660 (2003) 25-50
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301062
abstract: We study the Nonlinear (Polynomial, N-fold,...) Supersymmetry algebra in one-dimensional QM. Its structure is determined by the type of conjugation operation (Hermitian conjugation or transposition) and described with the help of the Super-Hamiltonian projection on the zero-mode subspace of a supercharge. We show that the SUSY algebra with transposition symmetry is always polynomial in the Hamiltonian if supercharges represent differential operators of finite order. The appearance of the extended SUSY with several (complex or real) supercharges is analyzed in details and it is established that no more than two independent supercharges may generate a Nonlinear superalgebra which can be appropriately specified as {\cal N} = 2 SUSY. In this case we find a non-trivial hidden symmetry operator and rephrase it as a non-linear function of the Super-Hamiltonian on the physical state space. The full {\cal N} = 2 Non-linear SUSY algebra includes "central charges" both polynomial and non-polynomial (due to a symmetry operator) in the Super-Hamiltonian.

id: hep-th/0301106
title: On the Meaning of the String-Inspired Noncommutativity and its Implications
authors: G. Dourado Barbosa
comments: References, comments, and footnotes are included; some changes in section 5
journal: JHEP 0305:024,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301106
abstract: We propose an alternative interpretation for the meaning of noncommutativity of the string-inspired field theories and quantum mechanics. Arguments are presented to show that the noncommutativity generated in the stringy context should be assumed to be only between the particle coordinate observables, and not of the spacetime coordinates. Some implications of this fact for noncomutative field theories and quantum mechanics are discussed. In particular, a consistent interpretation is given for the wavefunction in quantum mechanics. An analysis of the noncommutative theories in the Schr\"odinger formulation is performed employing a generalized quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism. A formal structure for noncommutative quantum mechanics, richer than the one of noncommutative quantum field theory, comes out. Conditions for the classical and commutative limits of these theories have also been determined and applied in some examples.

id: hep-th/0301107
title: Thermal behavior induced by vacuum polarization on causal horizons in comparison with the standard heat bath formalism
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: 15 page Latex, dedicated to A. A. Belavin on the occasion of his 60th birthday
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A19S2 (2004) 348-362
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301107
abstract: Modular theory of operator algebras and the associated KMS property are used to obtain a unified description for the thermal aspects of the standard heat bath situation and those caused by quantum vacuum fluctuations from localization. An algebraic variant of lightfront holography reveals that the vacuum polarization on wedge horizons is compressed into the lightray direction. Their absence in the transverse direction is the prerequisite to an area (generalized Bekenstein-) behavior of entropy-like measures which reveal the loss of purity of the vacuum due to restrictions to wedges and their horizons. Besides the well-known fact that localization-induced (generalized Hawking-) temperature is fixed by the geometric aspects, this area behavior (versus the standard volume dependence) constitutes the main difference between localization-caused and standard thermal behavior.

id: hep-th/0301134
title: On conserved operator quantities in quantum field theory
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 11 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. The paper generalizes some results from hep-th/0206008 and hep-th/0211153. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: In: Frontiers in quantum physics research, Editors F. Columbus and V. Krasnoholovets, Nova Science Pub., Inc., New York, 2004, pp.157-166
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301134
abstract: Conserved operator quantities in quantum field theory can be defined via the Noether theorem in the Lagrangian formalism and as generators of some transformations. These definitions lead to generally different conserved operators which are suitable for different purposes. Some relations involving conserved operators are analyzed.

id: hep-th/0301175
title: Almost-zero-energy Eigenvalues of Some Broken Supersymmetric Systems
authors: Min-Young Choi, Choonkyu Lee
comments: revised version, to be pubilshed in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 107702
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0301175
abstract: For a quantum mechanical system with broken supersymmetry, we present a simple method of determining the ground state when the corresponding energy eigenvalue is sufficiently small. A concise formula is derived for the approximate ground state energy in an associated, well-separated, asymmetric double-well-type potential. Our discussion is also relevant for the analysis of the fermion bound state in the kink-antikink scalar background.

id: math-ph/0301009
title: Group classification of nonlinear Schr?dinger equations
authors: Anatoly G. Nikitin, Roman O. Popovych
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Ukr.Math.J. 53 (2001) 1255-1265
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0301009
abstract: The authors suggest a new powerful tool for solving group classification problems, that is applied to obtaining the complete group classification in the class of nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations of the form $i\psi_t+\Delta\psi+F(\psi,\psi^*)=0$.

id: math-ph/0301021
title: Spectral properties of Schroedinger operators with a strongly attractive delta interaction supported by a surface
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: AMSTeX, 12 pages; to appear in Proceedings of the NSF Summer Research Conference (Mt. Holyoke 2002); AMS "Contemporary Mathematics" Series, Providence, R.I., 2003
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0301021
abstract: We investigate the operator $-\Delta -\alpha \delta (x-\Gamma)$ in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^3)$, where $\Gamma$ is a smooth surface which is either compact or periodic and satisfies suitable regularity requirements. We find an asymptotic expansion for the lower part of the spectrum as $\alpha\to\infty$ which involves a ``two-dimensional'' comparison operator determined by the geometry of the surface $\Gamma$. In the compact case the asymptotics concerns negative eigenvalues, in the periodic case Floquet eigenvalues. We also give a bandwidth estimate in the case when a periodic $\Gamma$ decomposes into compact connected components. Finally, we comment on analogous systems of lower dimension and other aspects of the problem.

id: math-ph/0301024
title: Quantum mechanics of damped systems
authors: D. Chruscinski
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 44 (2003) 3718-3733
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0301024
abstract: We show that the quantization of a simple damped system leads to a self-adjoint Hamiltonian with a family of complex generalized eigenvalues. It turns out that they correspond to the poles of energy eigenvectors when continued to the complex energy plane. Therefore, the corresponding generalized eigenvectors may be interpreted as resonant states. We show that resonant states are responsible for the irreversible quantum dynamics of our simple model.

id: math/0301072
title: Topological Orthoalgebras
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 16 pp, LaTex. Minor changes and corrections in sections 1; more substantial corrections in section 5
journal: 
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); General Topology (math.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0301072
abstract: We define topological orthoalgebras (TOAs) and study their properties. While every topological orthomodular lattice is a TOA, the lattice of projections of a Hilbert space is an example of a lattice-ordered TOA that is not a toplogical lattice. On the other hand, we show that every compact Boolean TOA is a topological Boolean algebra. We also show that a compact TOA in which 0 is an isolated point is atomic and of finite height. We identify and study a particularly tractable class of TOAs, which we call {\em stably ordered}: those in which the upper-set generated by an open set is open. This includes all topological OMLs, and also the projection lattices of Hilbert spaces. Finally, we obtain a topological version of the Foulis-Randall representation theory for stably ordered TOAs

id: math/0301274
title: On the existence of a new family of Diophantine equations for $\bf ¦¸$
authors: Toby Ord, Tien D. Kieu
comments: 
journal: Fundamenta Informaticae 56 (2003) 273--284
subjects: Number Theory (math.NT); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0301274
abstract: We show how to determine the $k$-th bit of Chaitin's algorithmically random real number $\Omega$ by solving $k$ instances of the halting problem. From this we then reduce the problem of determining the $k$-th bit of $\Omega$ to determining whether a certain Diophantine equation with two parameters, $k$ and $N$, has solutions for an odd or an even number of values of $N$. We also demonstrate two further examples of $\Omega$ in number theory: an exponential Diophantine equation with a parameter $k$ which has an odd number of solutions iff the $k$-th bit of $\Omega$ is 1, and a polynomial of positive integer variables and a parameter $k$ that takes on an odd number of positive values iff the $k$-th bit of $\Omega$ is 1.

id: nlin/0301014
title: Spectral properties of noisy classical and quantum propagators
authors: Stephane Nonnenmacher
comments: 35 pages, 6 .eps figures, to be published in Nonlinearity. I added some references and comments
journal: Nonlinearity 16, 1685-1713 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0301014
abstract: We study classical and quantum maps on the torus phase space, in the presence of noise. We focus on the spectral properties of the noisy evolution operator, and prove that for any amount of noise, the quantum spectrum converges to the classical one in the semiclassical limit. The small-noise behaviour of the classical spectrum highly depends on the dynamics generated by the map. For a chaotic dynamics, the outer spectrum consists in isolated eigenvalues (``resonances'') inside the unit circle, leading to an exponential damping of correlations. On the opposite, in the case of a regular map, part of the spectrum accumulates along a one-dimensional ``string'' connecting the origin with unity, yielding a diffusive behaviour. We finally study the non-commutativity between the semiclassical and small-noise limits, and illustrate this phenomenon by computing (analytically and numerically) the classical and quantum spectra for some maps.

id: nlin/0301025
title: Classical decays in decoherent quantum maps
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, M. Saraceno, M. E. Spina
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Refference added. Submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 91, 064101 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0301025
abstract: We study the asymptotic long-time behavior of open quantum maps and relate the decays to the eigenvalues of a coarse-grained superoperator. In specific ranges of coarse graining, and for chaotic maps, these decay rates are given by the Ruelle-Pollicott resonances of the classical map.

id: nlin/0301033
title: Effective Hamiltonians for periodically driven systems
authors: Saar Rahav, Ido Gilary, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures. Revised version. This online version contains some calculations which were ommited in the published version
journal: Phys. Rev A, V68, 013820 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0301033
abstract: The dynamics of classical and quantum systems which are driven by a high frequency ($\omega$) field is investigated. For classical systems the motion is separated into a slow part and a fast part. The motion for the slow part is computed perturbatively in powers of $\omega^{-1}$ to order $\omega^{-4}$ and the corresponding time independent Hamiltonian is calculated. Such an effective Hamiltonian for the corresponding quantum problem is computed to order $\omega^{-4}$ in a high frequency expansion. Its spectrum is the quasienergy spectrum of the time dependent quantum system. The classical limit of this effective Hamiltonian is the classical effective time independent Hamiltonian. It is demonstrated that this effective Hamiltonian gives the exact quasienergies and quasienergy states of some simple examples as well as the lowest resonance of a non trivial model for an atom trap. The theory that is developed in the paper is useful for the analysis of atomic motion in atom traps of various shapes.

id: nucl-th/0301094
title: Dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: J. Oko?owicz, M. P?oszajczak, I. Rotter
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0301094
abstract: The coupling between the states of a system and the continuum into which it is embedded, induces correlations that are especially large in the short time scale. These correlations cannot be calculated by using a statistical or perturbational approach. They are, however, involved in an approach describing structure and reaction aspects in a unified manner. Such a model is the SMEC (shell model embedded in the continuum). Some characteristic results obtained from SMEC as well as some aspects of the correlations induced by the coupling to the continuum are discussed.

