id: quant-ph/0302001
title: Noncommuting Coordinates in the Landau Problem
authors: Gabrielle Magro
comments: 9 pages; senior thesis, submitted to the MIT Physics Department on 17 January 2003; email correspondence to gmagro@mit.edu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302001
abstract: Basic ideas about noncommuting coordinates are summarized, and then coordinate noncommutativity, as it arises in the Landau problem, is investigated. I review a quantum solution to the Landau problem, and evaluate the coordinate commutator in a truncated state space of Landau levels. Restriction to the lowest Landau level reproduces the well known commutator of planar coordinates. Inclusion of a finite number of Landau levels yields a matrix generalization.

id: quant-ph/0302002
title: Efficient Synthesis of Linear Reversible Circuits
authors: K. N. Patel, I. L. Markov, J. P. Hayes
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302002
abstract: In this paper we consider circuit synthesis for n-wire linear reversible circuits using the C-NOT gate library. These circuits are an important class of reversible circuits with applications to quantum computation. Previous algorithms, based on Gaussian elimination and LU-decomposition, yield circuits with O(n^2) gates in the worst-case. However, an information theoretic bound suggests that it may be possible to reduce this to as few as O(n^2/log n) gates. We present an algorithm that is optimal up to a multiplicative constant, as well as Theta(log n) times faster than previous methods. While our results are primarily asymptotic, simulation results show that even for relatively small n our algorithm is faster and yields more efficient circuits than the standard method. Generically our algorithm can be interpreted as a matrix decomposition algorithm, yielding an asymptotically efficient decomposition of a binary matrix into a product of elementary matrices.

id: quant-ph/0302003
title: Speakable and Unspeakable, Past and Future
authors: Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 34 pages, 10 figures (in 12 parts), to appear as chapter in SCIENCE AND ULTIMATE REALITY: Quantum Theory, Cosmology and Complexity, edited by John D. Barrow, Paul C.W. Davies, and Charles L. Harper, Jr., Cambridge University Press, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302003
abstract: This chapter is based on a talk given at the Science and Ultimate Reality meeting in March, 2002, in honour of John Archibald Wheeler. In it, I discuss some questions related to what can and cannot be said about the history of a quantum mechanical system. Relying heavily on the weak- measurement formalism of Aharonov and coworkers, I argue that there is much to be learned about a system based both on its preparation and on subsequent postselection. This is illustrated with examples from a number of past, present, and future experiments from our lab, ranging from tests of quantum "paradoxes" to studies of nonlocality to non-deterministic implementations of logic operations on quantum information. The connection between weak measurements and generalized probability theory is discussed, along with some of the counterintuitive features of these "probabilities." Conclusions are for the most part left to the reader.

id: quant-ph/0302004
title: Moving Atom-Field Interaction: Correction to Casimir-Polder Effect from Coherent Back-action
authors: S. Shresta, B. L. Hu, N. G. Phillips
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, clarified discussions; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062101 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302004
abstract: The Casimir-Polder force is an attractive force between a polarizable atom and a conducting or dielectric boundary. Its original computation was in terms of the Lamb shift of the atomic ground state in an electromagnetic field (EMF) modified by boundary conditions along the wall and assuming a stationary atom. We calculate the corrections to this force due to a moving atom, demanding maximal preservation of entanglement generated by the moving atom-conducting wall system. We do this by using non-perturbative path integral techniques which allow for coherent back-action and thus can treat non-Markovian processes. We recompute the atom-wall force for a conducting boundary by allowing the bare atom-EMF ground state to evolve (or self-dress) into the interacting ground state. We find a clear distinction between the cases of stationary and adiabatic motions. Our result for the retardation correction for adiabatic motion is up to twice as much as that computed for stationary atoms. We give physical interpretations of both the stationary and adiabatic atom-wall forces in terms of alteration of the virtual photon cloud surrounding the atom by the wall and the Doppler effect.

id: quant-ph/0302005
title: Generation of photon pairs using polarization-dependent two-photon absorption
authors: T. Nakanishi, K. Sugiyama, M. Kitano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A, Vol.67 (2003) p.043809
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302005
abstract: We propose a new method for generating photon pairs from coherent light using polarization-dependent two-photon absorption. We study the photon statistics of two orthogonally polarized modes by solving a master equation, and show that when we prepare a coherent state in one polarization mode, photon pairs are created in the other mode. The photon pairs have the same frequency as that of the incident light.

id: quant-ph/0302006
title: Quantum error correction for continuously detected errors
authors: Charlene Ahn, H. W. Wiseman, G. J. Milburn
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 052310 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302006
abstract: We show that quantum feedback control can be used as a quantum error correction process for errors induced by weak continuous measurement. In particular, when the error model is restricted to one, perfectly measured, error channel per physical qubit, quantum feedback can act to perfectly protect a stabilizer codespace. Using the stabilizer formalism we derive an explicit scheme, involving feedback and an additional constant Hamiltonian, to protect an ($n-1$)-qubit logical state encoded in $n$ physical qubits. This works for both Poisson (jump) and white-noise (diffusion) measurement processes. In addition, universal quantum computation is possible in this scheme. As an example, we show that detected-spontaneous emission error correction with a driving Hamiltonian can greatly reduce the amount of redundancy required to protect a state from that which has been previously postulated [e.g., Alber \emph{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4402 (2001)].

id: quant-ph/0302007
title: Algebra for generalised quantum observables
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: Latex, 13 pages (notation improved, refs added to recent applications)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302007
abstract: Generalised observables (POM observables) are necessary for representing all possible measurements on a quantum system. Useful algebraic operations such as addition and multiplication are defined for these observables, recovering many advantages of the more restrictive Hermitian operator formalism. Examples include new uncertainty relations and metrics, and optical phase applications.

id: quant-ph/0302008
title: Entanglement, local measurements, and symmetry
authors: A.A. Klyachko, A.S. Shumovsky
comments: 10 pages. to be published in Journal of Optics B
journal: Journal of Optics B, 5, S322 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302008
abstract: A definition of entanglement in terms of local measurements is discussed. Viz, the maximum entanglement corresponds to the states that cause the highest level of quantum fluctuations in all local measurements determined by the dynamic symmetry group of the system. A number of examples illustrating this definition is considered.

id: quant-ph/0302009
title: On the path integration for the potential barrier $V_{0}\cosh ^{-2}(¦Øx)$
authors: L. Guechi, T. F.Hammann
comments: 18 pages
journal: Il Nuovo Cimento 115 B (2000) 123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302009
abstract: The propagator associated to the potential barrier $V=V_{0}\cosh ^{-2}(\omega x)$ is obtained by solving path integrals. The method of delta functionals based on canonical and other transformations is used to reduce the path integral for this potential into a path integral for the Morse potential problem. The dimensional extension technique is seen to be essential for performing the multiple integral representation of the propagator. The correctly normalized scattering wave functions and the scattering function are derived. To test the method employed, the free particle and the $\delta -$function barrier are considered as limiting cases.

id: quant-ph/0302010
title: Electron Wave Function in the Field of a One Dimensional Irregular Layered Structure
authors: A.Zh. Khachatrian
comments: Submitted in Supperlattices and Microstructures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302010
abstract: A method is proposed to find the wave function of an electron moving infinitely in the field of an arbitrary 1D layer structure with two different homogeneous semi-infinite boundaries. It is shown that in general the problem reduces to solution of a set of two linear difference equations. The proposed approach is discussed on a base of two cases: a structure of periodically placed identical rectangular potentials and a non-ordered structure with certain distortion of periodicity and potential identity.

id: quant-ph/0302011
title: Quantum limit of deterministic theories
authors: M.Blasone, P.Jizba, G.Vitiello
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minor corrections added. To appear in the Proceedings of Waseda International Symposium on Fundamental Physics: "New Perspectives in Quantum Physics", 12-15 November 2002, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
journal: J.Phys.Soc.Jap.Suppl. 72 (2003) 50
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302011
abstract: We show that the quantum linear harmonic oscillator can be obtained in the large $N$ limit of a classical deterministic system with SU(1,1) dynamical symmetry. This is done in analogy with recent work by G.'t Hooft who investigated a deterministic system based on SU(2). Among the advantages of our model based on a non--compact group is the fact that the ground state energy is uniquely fixed by the choice of the representation.

id: quant-ph/0302012
title: Atom spin squeezing in a double lambda system
authors: A. Dantan, M. Pinard, P. R. Berman
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, submitted to European Journal of Physics D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302012
abstract: The interaction of classical and quantized electromagnetic fields with an ensemble of atoms in an optical cavity is considered. Four fields drive a double-lambda level scheme in the atoms, consisting of a pair of lambda systems sharing the same set of lower levels. Two of the fields produce maximum coherence, rho12 = -1/2, between the ground state sublevels 1 and 2. This pumping scheme involves equal intensity fields that are resonant with both the one and two-photon transitions of the lambda system. There is no steady-state absorption of these fields, implying that the fields induce a type electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) in the medium. An additional pair of fields interacting with the second lambda system, combined with the EIT fields, leads to squeezing of the atom spin associated with the ground state sublevels. Our method involves a new mechanism for creating steady-state spin squeezing using an optical cavity. As the cooperativity parameter C is increased, the optimal squeezing varies as C^{-1/3}. For experimentally accessible values of C, squeezing as large as 90% can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0302013
title: Transition from Quantum to Classical Information in a Superfluid
authors: A.Granik, G.Chapline
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302013
abstract: Whereas the entropy of any deterministic classical system described by a principle of least action is zero, one can assign a "quantum information" to quantum mechanical degree of freedom equal to Hausdorff area of the deviation from a classical path. This raises the question whether superfluids carry quantum information. We show that in general the transition from the classical to quantum behavior depends on the probing length scale, and occurs for microscopic length scales, except when the interactions between the particles are very weak. This transition explains why, on macroscopic length scales, physics is described by classical equations.

id: quant-ph/0302014
title: Spin squeezing and pairwise entanglement for symmetric multiqubit states
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 6 pages. Version 3: Small corrections were made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012101 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302014
abstract: We show that spin squeezing implies pairwise entanglement for arbitrary symmetric multiqubit states. If the squeezing parameter is less than or equal to 1, we demonstrate a quantitative relation between the squeezing parameter and the concurrence for the even and odd states. We prove that the even states generated from the initial state with all qubits being spin down, via the one-axis twisting Hamiltonian, are spin squeezed if and only if they are pairwise entangled. For the states generated via the one-axis twisting Hamiltonian with an external transverse field for any number of qubits greater than 1 or via the two-axis counter-twisting Hamiltonian for any even number of qubits, the numerical results suggest that such states are spin squeezed if and only if they are pairwise entangled.

id: quant-ph/0302015
title: Dynamical aspects of quantum entanglement for coupled mapping systems
authors: Hiroshi Fujisaki, Atushi Tanaka, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the Waseda International Symposium on Fundamental Physics
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. Suppl. C 72 (2003) 111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302015
abstract: We investigate how the dynamical production of quantum entanglement for weakly coupled mapping systems is influenced by the chaotic dynamics of the corresponding classical system. We derive a general perturbative formula for the entanglement production rate which is defined by using the linear entropy of the subsystem. This formula predicts that {\it the increment of the strength of chaos does not enhance the production rate of entanglement} when the coupling is weak enough and the subsystems are strongly chaotic. The prediction is confirmed by numerical experiments for coupled kicked tops and rotors. We also discuss the entanglement production using the Husimi representation of the reduced density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0302016
title: Entanglement generation in continuously coupled parametric generators
authors: Jiri Herec, Jaromir Fiurasek, Ladislav Mista Jr
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, 419 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302016
abstract: We investigate a compact source of entanglement. This device is composed of a pair of linearly coupled nonlinear waveguides operating by means of degenerate parametric downconversion. For the vacuum state at the input the generalized squeeze variance and logarithmic negativity are used to quantify the amount of nonclassicality and entanglement of output beams. Squeezing and entanglement generation for various dynamical regimes of the device are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302017
title: Continuous variable entanglement by radiation pressure
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, S523-S529 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302017
abstract: We show that the radiation pressure of an intense optical field impinging on a perfectly reflecting vibrating mirror is able to entangle in a robust way the first two optical sideband modes. Under appropriate conditions, the generated entangled state is of EPR type [A. Einstein, {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. {\bf 47}, 777 (1935)].

id: quant-ph/0302018
title: An efficient numerical method for calculating the entanglement of formation of arbitrary mixed quantum states of any dimension
authors: J. R. Gittings, A. J. Fisher
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Version 2: It has been brought to our attention that this eprint duplicates earlier research by K. Audenaert et al: see quant-ph/0006128 or PRA 64 052304. Our abstract has been modified to state this
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302018
abstract: We present a conjugate gradient method for calculating the entanglement of formation of arbitrary mixed quantum states of any dimension and with any bipartite division of the Hilbert space. The development of the gradient used by the algorithm, its implications for the number of states required in the optimal decomposition, and the way that conjugate gradient minimization has been adapted for this particular problem are outlined. We have found that the algorithm exhibits linear convergence for general mixed states, and that it correctly reproduces the known results for pairs of qubits and for isotropic states. The results of an example application of the code are discussed: calculating the entanglement of formation of a Psi+ Bell state of two qutrits when one of those qutrits is subject to various decoherence channels. The results for qutrits are contrasted with those for qubits: for the types of decoherence considered here, qutrit entanglement appears to be more robust than qubit entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0302019
title: Classicality and anticlassicality measures of pure and mixed quantum states
authors: V.V. Dodonov, M.B. Reno
comments: LaTex, 10 p., 3 PS figures; to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A, v.308, no.4, p.249-255 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302019
abstract: We introduce a simple measure of "classicality" of pure and mixed quantum states as a maximum value of the Hilbert-Schmidt "scalar products" between the renormalized statistical operators of the state concerned and all displaced thermal states. Choosing Fock states as the reference set, we introduce the measure of "anticlassicality". Both measures are illustrated for the Fock, coherent phase, and generic mixed Gaussian states. Gaussian states are shown to be the closest to thermal states possessing the same degree of quantum purity. On the contrary, Fock states appear to be more close to mixed thermal states than to pure coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0302020
title: Ordered Quantization and the Ehrenfest Time Scale
authors: Renato Moreira Angelo, Liliana Sanz, Kyoko Furuya
comments: (5 pages, 1 figure)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302020
abstract: We propose a prescription to quantize classical monomials in terms of symmetric and ordered expansions of non-commuting operators of a bosonic theory. As a direct application of such quantization rules, we quantize a classically time evolved function $\mathcal{O}(q,p,t)$, and calculate its expectation value in coherent states. The result can be expressed in terms of the application of a classical operator which performs a {\em Gaussian smoothing} of the original function $\mathcal{O}$ evaluated at the center of the coherent state. This scheme produces a natural semi-classical expansion for the quantum expectation values at a short time scale. Moreover, since the classical Liouville evolution of a Gaussian probability density gives the {\bf same} form for the classical statistical mean value, we can calculate the first order correction in $\hbar$ entirely from the associated classical time evolved function. This allows us to write a general expression for the Ehrenfest time in terms of the departure of the centroid of the quantum distribution from the classical trajectory provided we start with an initially coherent state for each subsystem. In order to illustrate this approach, we have calculated analytically the Ehrenfest time of a model with $N$ coupled non-linear oscillators with non-linearity of even order.

id: quant-ph/0302021
title: Theory of four-wave mixing and accompanying dissociation and population transfer controlled with laser-induced continuum structures
authors: V. V. Kimberg, A. K. Popov, Thomas F. George
comments: 39 pages, 18 figures, v.2 minor format changes
journal: Recent Research Developments in Optics, vol. 2, Research Signpost, Trivandrum, India, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302021
abstract: A theory is developed and applied to the study of opportunities and specific features of coherent control of four-wave mixing as well as of the accompanying processes in the continuous-wave regime, which involve transitions between bound and free quantum states. Such opportunities become feasible through constructive and destructive interference of quantum pathways. Two coupling schemes of practical importance are investigated. In the first, a ladder energy level scheme, fully-resonant sum-frequency nonlinear-optical generation of short-wavelength radiation driven by several strong fields is investigated. The relaxation processes as well as absorption of the fundamental and generated radiations, which play an important role, are taken into consideration. It is shown that the generation output can be considerably increased through the appropriate adjustment of several laser-induced continuum structures. In the second, a folded scheme, a possible control of two-photon dissociation (Lambda-scheme) using auxiliary laser radiation applied to the adjacent bound-free transition (V-configuration) is investigated. Besides dissociation, the proposed method enables one to control population transfer between two upper discreet levels via the lower-energy dissociation continuum, while direct transition between these states is not allowed. The opportunities of manipulating these processes as well as of four-wave-mixing-based spectroscopy are explored both analytically and through a numerical simulation for Na_2 dimers.

id: quant-ph/0302022
title: On Computational Power of Quantum Branching Programs
authors: Farid Ablayev, Aida Gainutdinova, Marek Karpinski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302022
abstract: In this paper we study a model of a Quantum Branching Program (QBP) and investigate its computational power. We prove a general lower bound on the width of read-once QBPs, which we show to be almost tight on certain symmetric function.

id: quant-ph/0302023
title: Theory of an Entanglement Laser
authors: Christoph Simon, Dik Bouwmeester
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 91, 053601 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302023
abstract: We consider the creation of polarization entangled light from parametric down- conversion driven by an intense pulsed pump inside a cavity. The multi-photon states produced are close approximations to singlet states of two very large spins. A criterion is derived to quantify the entanglement of such states. We study the dynamics of the system in the presence of losses and other imperfections, concluding that the creation of strongly entangled states with photon numbers up to a million seems achievable.

id: quant-ph/0302024
title: Characterization of the Positivity of the Density Matrix in Terms of the Coherence Vector Representation
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Navin Khaneja
comments: significantly rewritten and submitted for publication
journal: PRA 68, 062322 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302024
abstract: A parameterization of the density operator, a coherence vector representation, which uses a basis of orthogonal, traceless, Hermitian matrices is discussed. Using this parameterization we find the region of permissible vectors which represent a density operator. The inequalities which specify the region are shown to involve the Casimir invariants of the group. In particular cases, this allows the determination of degeneracies in the spectrum of the operator. The identification of the Casimir invariants also provides a method of constructing quantities which are invariant under {\it local} unitary operations. Several examples are given which illustrate the constraints provided by the positivity requirements and the utility of the coherence vector parameterization.

id: quant-ph/0302025
title: Semiclassical approaches to controlling chemical reaction dynamics
authors: Hiroshi Fujisaki, Yoshiaki Teranishi, Alexey Kondorskiy, Hiroki Nakamura
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302025
abstract: We propose to use semiclassical methods to treat laser control problems of chemical reaction dynamics. Our basic strategy is as follows: Laser-driven chemical reactions are considered to consist of two processes. One is the wavepacket propagation on an adiabatic potential energy surface (PES), and the other is the electronic transition between PES's. Because the latter process is mathematically equivalent to nonadiabatic transitions between Floquet (dressed) states, we can control such a process using the semiclassical Zhu-Nakamura theory for nonadiabatic transitions. For the former process, we incorporate semiclassical propagation methods such as the Herman-Kluk propagator into optimization procedures like optimal control theory. We show some numerical examples for our strategies. We also develop a semiclassical direct algorithm to treat the adiabatic propagation and nonadiabatic transitions as a whole.

id: quant-ph/0302026
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations and Galilean transformations
authors: P. Caban, J. Rembielinski, K. A. Smolinski, Z. Walczak
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 012109 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302026
abstract: In this paper we calculate with full details Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen spin correlations in the framework of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. We consider the following situation: two-particle state is prepared (we consider separately distinguishable and identical particles and take into account the space part of the wave function) and two observers in relative motion measure the spin component of the particle along given directions. The measurements are performed in bounded regions of space (detectors), not necessarily simultaneously. The resulting correlation function depends not only on the directions of spin measurements but also on the relative velocity of the observers.

id: quant-ph/0302027
title: Treating the Independent Set Problem by 2D Ising Interactions with Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302027
abstract: We construct a nearest-neighbor Hamiltonian whose ground states encode the solutions to the NP-complete problem INDEPENDENT SET in cubic planar graphs. The Hamiltonian can be easily simulated by Ising interactions between adjacent particles on a 2D rectangular lattice. We describe the required pulse sequences. Our methods could help to implement adiabatic quantum computing by physically reasonable Hamiltonians like short-range interactions.

id: quant-ph/0302028
title: Quantum Tomography
authors: G. Mauro D'Ariano, Matteo G. A. Paris, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: To appear in "Advances in Imaging and Electron Physics". Some figs with low resolution
journal: Advances in Imaging and Electron Physics Vol. 128, p. 205-308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302028
abstract: This is the draft version of a review paper which is going to appear in "Advances in Imaging and Electron Physics"

id: quant-ph/0302029
title: Dynamical Criterion for Quantum Chaos: Entropy Production in Subsystems
authors: Avijit Lahiri
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302029
abstract: We examine the conjecture that entropy production in subsystems of a given system can be used as a dynamical criterion for quantum chaos in the latter. Numerical results are presented for finite dimensional spin systems as also for the quantum baker's map. Of especial importance is the power spectrum of the entropy production which gets progressively more and more broad-banded as the degree of correlation in the Hamiltonian matrix is made to decrease.

id: quant-ph/0302030
title: Quantum teleportation using three-particle entanglement
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 13 pages, 3 tables, REVTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302030
abstract: We investigate the teleportation of a quantum state using a three-particle entangled W state. We compare and contrast our results with those in Ref.[11] where a three-particle entangled GHZ state was used. The effects of white noise on the average teleportation fidelities are also studied.

id: quant-ph/0302031
title: General Entanglement Breaking Channels
authors: Michael Horodecki, Peter W. Shor, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: This paper extends the results in section 3 of quant-ph/0207100, and gives a counter-example to the conjecture that all extreme points are CQ. Final version to appear in Rev. Math. Phys
journal: Rev. Math. Phys 15, 629--641 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302031
abstract: This paper studies the class of stochastic maps, or channels, whose action (when tensored with the identity) on an entangled state always yields a separable state. Such maps have a canonical form introduced by Holevo. Such maps are called entanglement breaking, and can always be written in a canonical form introduced by Holevo. Some special classes of these maps are considered and several equivalent characterizations given. Since the set of entanglement-breaking trace-preserving maps is convex, it can be described by its extreme points. The only extreme points of the set of completely positive trace preserving maps which are also entanglement breaking are those known as classical quantum or CQ. However, for d > 2 the set of entanglement breaking maps has additional extreme points which are not extreme CQ maps.

id: quant-ph/0302032
title: Qubit Entanglement Breaking Channels
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Contains main results from section 2 of quant-ph/0207100 Version 2 corrects minor typos. Final version to appear in Rev. Math. Phys
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 15, 643-662 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302032
abstract: This paper continues the study of stochastic maps, or channels, which break entanglement. We give a detailed description of entanglement-breaking qubit channels, and show that such maps are precisely the convex hull of those known as classical-quantum channels. We also review the complete positivity conditions in a canonical parameterization and show how they lead to entanglement-breaking conditions.

id: quant-ph/0302033
title: Optimum Probe Parameters for Entangling Probe in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Howard E. Brandt
comments: 74 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302033
abstract: For the four-state protocol of quantum key distribution, optimum sets of probe parameters are calculated for the most general unitary probe in which each individual transmitted photon is made to interact with the probe so that the signal and the probe are left in an entangled state, and projective measurement by the probe, made subsequent to projective measurement by the legitimate receiver, yields information about the signal state. The probe optimization is based on maximizing the Renyi information gain by the probe on corrected data for a given error rate induced by the probe in the legitimate receiver. An arbitrary angle is included between the nonorthogonal linear polarization states of the signal photons. Two sets of optimum probe parameters are determined which both correspond to the same optimization. Also, a larger set of optimum probe parameters is found than was known previously for the standard BB84 protocol. A detailed comparison is made between the complete and incomplete optimizations, and the latter simpler optimization is also made complete. Also, the process of key distillation from the quantum transmission in quantum key distribution is reviewed, with the objective of calculating the secrecy capacity of the four-state protocol in the presence of the eavesdropping probe. Emphasis is placed on information leakage to the probe.

id: quant-ph/0302034
title: Probability in decoherent histories
authors: Todd A. Brun
comments: 17 pages, SPROCL LaTeX macros. To appear in proceedings of ``Foundations of Probability in Physics 2, Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2002.''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302034
abstract: The decoherent (consistent) histories formalism has been proposed as a means of eliminating measurements as a fundamental concept in quantum mechanics. In this formalism, probabilities can be assigned to any description which satisfies a particular consistency condition. The formalism, however, admits incompatible descriptions which cannot be combined, unlike classical physics. This seems to leave an ambiguity in the choice of the description. I argue that this ambiguity is removed by considering the observer as a physical system.

id: quant-ph/0302035
title: Solution of scaling quantum networks
authors: Yu. Dabaghian, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302035
abstract: We show that all scaling quantum graphs are explicitly integrable, i.e. any one of their spectral eigenvalues $E_n$ is computable analytically, explicitly, and individually for any given $n$. This is surprising, since quantum graphs are excellent models of quantum chaos [see, e.g., T. Kottos and H. Schanz, Physica E {\bf 9}, 523 (2001)].

id: quant-ph/0302036
title: Confined Quantum Time of Arrivals
authors: Eric A. Galapon, Roland F. Caballar, Ricardo T. Bahague Jr
comments: Figures are now included
journal: Phys. Rev. Let. 93, 180406 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302036
abstract: We show that formulating the quantum time of arrival problem in a segment of the real line suggests rephrasing the quantum time of arrival problem to finding states that evolve to unitarily collapse at a given point at a definite time. For the spatially confined particle, we show that the problem admits a solution in the form of an eigenvalue problem of a compact and self-adjoint time of arrival operator derived by a quantization of the classical time of arrival, which is canonically conjugate with the Hamiltonian in closed subspace of the Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0302037
title: Coherent pulse implementations of quantum cryptography protocols resistant to photon number splitting attacks
authors: Antonio Acin, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012309 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302037
abstract: A new class of quantum cryptography (QC) protocols that are robust against the most general photon number splitting attacks in a weak coherent pulse implementation has been recently proposed. In this article we give a quite exhaustive analysis of several eavesdropping attacks on these schemes. The eavesdropper (Eve) is supposed to have unlimited technological power while the honest parties (Alice and Bob) use present day technology, in particular an attenuated laser as an approximation of a single-photon source. They exploit the nonorthogonality of quantum states for decreasing the information accessible to Eve in the multi-photon pulses accidentally produced by the imperfect source. An implementation of some of these protocols using present day technology allow for a secure key distribution up to distances of $\sim$ 150 km. We also show that strong-pulse implementations, where a strong pulse is included as a reference, allow for key distribution robust against photon number splitting attacks.

id: quant-ph/0302038
title: Coherent control with broadband squeezed vacuum
authors: Barak Dayan, Avi Pe'er, Asher A. Friesem, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302038
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of coherent control with high power, broadband squeezed vacuum. Although incoherent and exhibiting the statistics of a thermal noise, broadband squeezed vacuum is shown to induce certain two-photon interactions as a coherent ultrashort pulse with the same spectral bandwidth. Utilizing pulse-shaping techniques we coherently control the sum-frequency generation of broadband squeezed vacuum over a range of two orders of magnitude. Coherent control of two-photon interactions with broadband squeezed vacuum can potentially obtain spectral resolutions and extinction ratios that are practically unattainable with coherent pulses.

id: quant-ph/0302039
title: Quantum nonlocality in the presence of superselection rules and data hiding protocols
authors: F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 010404 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302039
abstract: We consider a quantum system subject to superselection rules, for which certain restrictions apply to the quantum operations that can be implemented. It is shown how the notion of quantum-nonlocality has to be redefined in the presence of superselection rules: there exist separable states that cannot be prepared locally and exhibit some form of nonlocality. Moreover, the notion of local distinguishability in the presence of classical communication has to be altered. This can be used to perform quantum information tasks that are otherwise impossible. In particular, this leads to the introduction of perfect quantum data hiding protocols, for which quantum communication (eventually in the form of a separable but nonlocal state) is needed to unlock the secret.

id: quant-ph/0302040
title: Entanglement in The Second Quantization Formalism
authors: V. Vedral
comments: 11 pages, no figures, a few typos corrected and some references added
journal: Central Eur.J.Phys. 1 (2003) 289-306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302040
abstract: We study properties of entangled systems in the (mainly non-relativistic) second quantization formalism. This is then applied to interacting and non-interacting bosons and fermions and the differences between the two are discussed. We present a general formalism to show how entanglement changes with the change of modes of the system. This is illustrated with examples such as the Bose condensation and the Unruh effect. It is then shown that a non-interacting collection of fermions at zero temperature can be entangled in spin providing that their distances do not exceed the inverse Fermi wavenumber. Beyond this distance all bipartite entanglement vanishes, although classical correlations still persist. We compute the entanglement of formation as well as the mutual information for two spin-correlated electrons as a function of their distance. The analogous non-interacting collection of bosons displays no entanglement in the internal degrees of freedom. We show how to generalize our analysis of the entanglement in the internal degrees of freedom to an arbitrary number of particles.

id: quant-ph/0302041
title: P.A.M. Dirac and the Discovery of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Kurt Gottfried
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302041
abstract: This colloquium summarizes Dirac's contributions to the discovery of quantum mechanics before he invented his relativistic wave equation.

id: quant-ph/0302042
title: Experimental observation of four-photon entanglement from down-conversion
authors: M.Eibl, S. Gaertner, M. Bourennane, Ch. Kurtsiefer, M. Zukowski, H. Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302042
abstract: We observe polarization-entanglement between four photons produced from a single down-conversion source. The non-classical correlations between the measurement results violate a generalized Bell inequality for four qubits. The characteristic properties and its easy generation with high interferometric contrast make the observed four-photon state well-suited for implementing advanced quantum communication schemes such as multi-party quantum key distribution, secret sharing and telecloning.

id: quant-ph/0302043
title: Maximally-Disordered Distillable Quantum States
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: Published Version, 7 pages, Latex
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Comm.) 69, 040302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302043
abstract: We explore classical to quantum transition of correlations by studying the quantum states located just outside of the classically-correlated-states-only neighborhood of the maximally mixed state (the largest separable ball (LSB)). We show that a natural candidate for such states raises the possibility of a layered transition, i.e., an annular region comprising only classical and the classical-like bound entangled states, followed by free or distillable entanglement. Surprisingly, we find the transition to be abrupt for bipartite systems: distillable states emerge arbitrarily close to the LSB. For multipartite systems, while the radius of the LSB remains unknown, we determine the radius of the largest undistillable ball. Our results also provide an upper bound on how noisy shared entangled states can be for executing quantum information processing protocols.

id: quant-ph/0302044
title: Reduction of the Wavepacket: How Long Does it Take?
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 7 pages. This paper introduced what is now known as "decoherence timescale" and gave a now broadly used estimate, Eq.(1), for quantum Brownian motion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302044
abstract: We show that the ``reduction of the wavepacket'' caused by the interaction with the environment occurs on a timescale which is typically many orders of magnitude shorter than the relaxation timescale $\tau$. In particular, we show that in a system interacting with a ``canonical'' heat bath of harmonic oscillators decorrelation timescale of two pieces of the wave-packet separated by $N$ thermal de Broglie wavelengths is approximately $\tau/N^2$. Therefore, in the classical limit $\hbar \to 0$ dynamical reversibility $(\tau \to \infty)$ is compatible with ``instantaneous'' coherence loss.

id: quant-ph/0302045
title: Predictions of the hydrodynamic interpretation of quantum mechanics compared with quantum electrodynamics for low energy bremsstrahlung
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 20 pages
journal: Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie, Volume 29, no 4, 2004, pp. 661-680
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302045
abstract: It is shown that the hydrodynamic interpretation of a charged quantum particle leads to a different theoretical prediction for low energy bremsstrahlung than does quantum electrodynamics (QED). In the calculations, the electromagnetic fields are treated classically in the hydrodynamic case, but are quantized in QED. Calculations show the hydrodynamic model to have a different and more sensitive dependence on the size and shape of the radiating particle's wave packet then does QED. In particular it is shown that bremsstrahlung is sometimes greatly reduced when the force acting on the particle is localized to a volume small compared to the particle's wave packet. QED exhibits no such reduction. Therefore it is possible to test this effect experimentally. An experiment is proposed. It involves an electron microscope with a Wien filter for producing monochromatic beam electrons and an accurate energy measurement of the particle after passing through a local force field.

id: quant-ph/0302046
title: Nonlinear Jaynes-Cummings model of atom-field interaction
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures is PS format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302046
abstract: Interaction of a two-level atom with a single mode of electromagnetic field including Kerr nonlinearity for the field and intensity-dependent atom-field coupling is discussed. The Hamiltonian for the atom-field system is written in terms of the elements of a closed algebra, which has SU(1,1) and Heisenberg-Weyl algebras as limiting cases. Eigenstates and eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian are constructed. With the field being in a coherent state initially, the dynamical behaviour of atomic-inversion, field-statistics and uncertainties in the field quadratures are studied. The appearance of nonclassical features during the evolution of the field is shown. Further, we explore the overlap of initial and time-evolved field states.

id: quant-ph/0302047
title: Concepts and methods in the theory of open quantum systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, conference proceedings, to be published in: Irreversible Quantum Dynamics, Lecture Notes in Physics, F. Benatti and R. Floreanini (Eds)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302047
abstract: The central physical concepts and mathematical techniques used in the theory of open quantum systems are reviewed. Particular emphasis is laid on the interrelations of apparently different approaches. Starting from the appropriate characterization of the quantum statistical ensembles naturally arising in the description of open quantum systems, the corresponding dynamical evolution equations are derived for the Markovian as well as for the non-Markovian case.

id: quant-ph/0302048
title: Sub-Poissonian statistics in order-to-chaos transition
authors: Gagik Yu. Kryuchkyan, Suren B. Manvelyan
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302048
abstract: We study the phenomena at the overlap of quantum chaos and nonclassical statistics for the time-dependent model of nonlinear oscillator. It is shown in the framework of Mandel Q-parameter and Wigner function that the statistics of oscillatory excitation number is drastically changed in order-to chaos transition. The essential improvement of sub-Poissonian statistics in comparison with an analogous one for the standard model of driven anharmonic oscillator is observed for the regular operational regime. It is shown that in the chaotic regime the system exhibits the range of sub- and super-Poissonian statistics which alternate one to other depending on time intervals. Unusual dependence of the variance of oscillatory number on the external noise level for the chaotic dynamics is observed.

id: quant-ph/0302049
title: Consistency of the Shannon entropy in quantum experiments
authors: P. G. L. Mana
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e/REVTeX4. V5: slightly different than the published version
journal: Physical Review A 69 (2004), 062108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302049
abstract: The consistency of the Shannon entropy, when applied to outcomes of quantum experiments, is analysed. It is shown that the Shannon entropy is fully consistent and its properties are never violated in quantum settings, but attention must be paid to logical and experimental contexts. This last remark is shown to apply regardless of the quantum or classical nature of the experiments.

id: quant-ph/0302050
title: How To Treat An N-Level System : A Proposal
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex Files, 10 pages; minor changes, two references added. This note is prepared for the coming 11-th Numazu Meeting (6-8/March/2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302050
abstract: In this paper we propose a Hamiltonian of the n-level system by making use of generalized Pauli matrices.

id: quant-ph/0302051
title: On Halting Process of Quantum Turing Machine
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Masanori Ohya
comments: 2 pages
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics, Vol.12, No.3 261-264 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302051
abstract: We prove that there is no algorithm to tell whether an arbitrarily constructed Quantum Turing Machine has same time steps for different branches of computation. We, hence, can not avoid the notion of halting to be probabilistic in Quantum Turing Machine. Our result suggests that halting scheme of Quantum Turing Machine and quantum complexity theory based upon the existing halting scheme sholud be reexamined.

id: quant-ph/0302052
title: Optimal multiqubit operations for Josephson charge qubits
authors: Antti O. Niskanen, Juha J. Vartiainen, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302052
abstract: We introduce a method for finding the required control parameters for a quantum computer that yields the desired quantum algorithm without invoking elementary gates. We concentrate on the Josephson charge-qubit model, but the scenario is readily extended to other physical realizations. Our strategy is to numerically find any desired double- or triple-qubit gate. The motivation is the need to significantly accelerate quantum algorithms in order to fight decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0302053
title: Representation theorem for obsevables on a quantum logic
authors: Andrei Khrenikov, Olga N¨¢n¨¢siov¨¢
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302053
abstract: We study a conditional state on a quantum logic using Renyi's approach (or Bayesian principle). This approach helps us to define independence of events and differently from the situation in the classical theory of probability, if an event $a$ is independent of an event $b$, then the event $b$ can be dependent on the event $a$. We will show that we can define a $s$-map (function for simultaneous measurements on a quantum logic). It can be shown that if we have the conditional state we can define the $s$-map and conversely. By using the $s$-map we can introduce joint distribution also for noncompatible observables on a quantum logic.

id: quant-ph/0302054
title: Teleportation and entanglement distillation in the presence of correlation among bipartite mixed states
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol.68, 012301, July 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302054
abstract: The teleportation channel associated with an arbitrary bipartite state denotes the map that represents the change suffered by a teleported state when the bipartite state is used instead of the ideal maximally entangled state for teleportation. This work presents and proves an explicit expression of the teleportation channel for the teleportation using Weyl's projective unitary representation of the space of 2n-tuples of numbers from Z/dZ for integers d>1, n>0, which has been known for n=1. This formula allows any correlation among the n bipartite mixed states, and an application shows the existence of reliable schemes for distillation of entanglement from a sequence of mixed states with correlation.

id: quant-ph/0302055
title: Entanglement between a qubit and the environment in the spin-boson model
authors: T.A.Costi, Ross H.McKenzie
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Shortened version restricted to groundstate entanglement
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 034301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302055
abstract: The quantitative description of the quantum entanglement between a qubit and its environment is considered. Specifically, for the ground state of the spin-boson model, the entropy of entanglement of the spin is calculated as a function of $\alpha$, the strength of the ohmic coupling to the environment, and $\epsilon$, the level asymmetry. This is done by a numerical renormalization group treatment of the related anisotropic Kondo model. For $\epsilon=0$, the entanglement increases monotonically with $\alpha$, until it becomes maximal for $\alpha \lim 1^-$. For fixed $\epsilon>0$, the entanglement is a maximum as a function of $\alpha$ for a value, $\alpha = \alpha_M < 1$.

id: quant-ph/0302056
title: On Einstein Causality and Time Asymmetry in Quantum Physics
authors: S. Wickramasekara, A. Bohm
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) L715
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302056
abstract: A theorem of Hegerfeldt shows that if the spectrum of the Hamiltonian is bounded from below, then the propagation speed of certain probabilities does not have an upper bound. We prove a theorem analogous to Hegerfeldt's that appertains to asymmetric time evolutions given by a semigroup of operators. As an application, we consider a characterization of relativistic quasistable states by irreducible representations of the causal Poincare semigroup and study the implications of the new theorem for this special case.

id: quant-ph/0302057
title: Experimental implementation of an adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm
authors: Matthias Steffen, Wim van Dam, Tad Hogg, Greg Breyta, Isaac Chuang
comments: REVTeX, 5 pages, 4 figures, improved lay-out; accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters, Volume 90, Number 6, Article 067903 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302057
abstract: We report the realization of a nuclear magnetic resonance computer with three quantum bits that simulates an adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm. Adiabatic quantum algorithms offer new insight into how quantum resources can be used to solve hard problems. This experiment uses a particularly well suited three quantum bit molecule and was made possible by introducing a technique that encodes general instances of the given optimization problem into an easily applicable Hamiltonian. Our results indicate an optimal run time of the adiabatic algorithm that agrees well with the prediction of a simple decoherence model.

id: quant-ph/0302058
title: Optimal strategy for a single-qubit gate and trade-off between opposite types of decoherence
authors: Robert Alicki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Lucjan Jacak, Pawel Machnikowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 010501(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302058
abstract: We study reliable quantum information processing (QIP) under two different types of environment. First type is Markovian exponential decay, and the appropriate elementary strategy of protection of qubit is to apply fast gates. The second one is strongly non-Markovian and occurs solely during operations on the qubit. The best strategy is then to work with slow gates. If the two types are both present, one has to optimize the speed of gate. We show that such a trade-off is present for a single-qubit operation in a semiconductor quantum dot implementation of QIP, where recombination of exciton (qubit) is Markovian, while phonon dressing gives rise to the non-Markovian contribution.

id: quant-ph/0302059
title: Perspectives for quantum state engineering via high non-linearity in a double-EIT regime
authors: M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, B. S. Ham
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 50, 2565 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302059
abstract: We analyse the possibilities for quantum state engineering offered by a model for Kerr-type non-linearity enhanced by electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), which was recently proposed by Petrosyan and Kurizki [{\sl Phys. Rev. A} {\bf 65}, 33833 (2002)]. We go beyond the semiclassical treatment and derive a quantum version of the model with both a full Hamiltonian approach and an analysis in terms of dressed states. The preparation of an entangled coherent state via a cross-phase modulation effect is demonstrated. We briefly show that the violation of locality for such an entangled coherent state is robust against low detection efficiency. Finally, we investigate the possibility of a bi-chromatic photon blockade realized via the interaction of a low density beam of atoms with a bi-modal electromagnetic cavity which is externally driven. We show the effectiveness of the blockade effect even when more than a single atom is inside the cavity. The possibility to control two different cavity modes allows some insights into the generation of an entangled state of cavity modes.

id: quant-ph/0302060
title: Boundary of Quantum Evolution under Decoherence
authors: N. Khaneja, B.Luy, S.J. Glaser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302060
abstract: Relaxation effects impose fundamental limitations on our ability to coherently control quantum mechanical phenomena. In this letter, we establish physical limits on how closely can a quantum mechanical system be steered to a desired target state in the presence of relaxation. In particular, we explicitly compute the maximum coherence or polarization that can be transferred between coupled nuclear spins in the presence of very general decoherence mechanisms that include cross-correlated relaxation. We give analytical expressions for the control laws (pulse sequences) which achieve these physical limits and provide supporting experimental evidence. Exploitation of cross-correlation effects has recently led to the development of powerful methods in NMR spectroscopy to study very large biomolecules in solution. We demonstrate with experiments that the optimal pulse sequences provide significant gains over these state of the art methods, opening new avenues for spectroscopy of much larger proteins. Surprisingly, in spite of very large relaxation rates, optimal control can transfer coherence without any loss when cross-correlated relaxation rates are tuned to auto-correlated relaxation rates.

id: quant-ph/0302061
title: Relativistic, Causal Description of Quantum Entanglement and Gravity
authors: J. W. Moffat
comments: 12 pages. LaTex file. 1 figure. Additional text. To be published in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D13:75,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302061
abstract: A possible solution to the problem of providing a spacetime description of the transmission of signals for quantum entangled states is obtained by using a bimetric spacetime structure, in which quantum entanglement measurements alter the structure of the classical relativity spacetime. A bimetric gravity theory locally has two lightcones, one which describes classical special relativity and a larger lightcone which allows light signals to communicate quantum information between entangled states, after a measurement device detects one of the entangled states. The theory would remove the tension that exists between macroscopic classical, local gravity and macroscopic nonlocal quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0302062
title: Simple applications of Noether's first theorem in quantum mechanics and electromagnetism
authors: Harvey R. Brown, Peter Holland
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302062
abstract: Internal global symmetries exist for the free non-relativistic Schr\"{o}dinger particle, whose associated Noether charges--the space integrals of the wavefunction and the wavefunction multiplied by the spatial coordinate--are exhibited. Analogous symmetries in classical electromagnetism are also demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0302063
title: Semigroup techniques for the efficient classical simulation of optical quantum information
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 4 pages, presented at XXIV International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (Paris, July 15-20, 2002)
journal: Proceedings of GROUP 24: Physical and Mathematical Aspects of Symmetries, eds. J-P Gazeau et al, IOP Press (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302063
abstract: A framework to describe a broad class of physical operations (including unitary transformations, dissipation, noise, and measurement) in a quantum optics experiment is given. This framework provides a powerful tool for assessing the capabilities and limitations of performing quantum information processing tasks using current experimental techniques. The Gottesman-Knill theorem is generalized to the infinite-dimensional representations of the group stabilizer formalism and further generalized to include non-invertable semigroup transformations, providing a theorem for the efficient classical simulation of operations within this framework. As a result, we place powerful constraints on obtaining computational speedups using current techniques in quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0302064
title: On Symmetric Sets of Projectors for Reconstruction of a Density Matrix
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeXe, 6 pages, 2 col
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302064
abstract: In this work are presented sets of projectors for reconstruction of a density matrix for an arbitrary mixed state of a quantum system with the finite-dimensional Hilbert space. It was discussed earlier [quant-ph/0104126] a construction with (2n-1)n projectors for the dimension n. For n=2 it is a set with six projectors associated with eigenvectors of three Pauli matrices, but for n>2 the construction produces not such a `regular' set. In this paper are revisited some results of previous work [quant-ph/0104126] and discussed another, more symmetric construction with the Weyl matrix pair (as the generalization of Pauli matrices). In the particular case of prime n it is the mutually unbiased set with (n+1)n projectors. In appendix is shown an example of application of complete sets for discussions about separability and random robustness.

id: quant-ph/0302065
title: Quantum theory: Reconsideration of foundations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Proceedings of the Conference, Vaxjo University Press, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302065
abstract: The purpose of the conference (the fourth in the series of Vaxjo conferences) was to bring together scientists (physicists, mathematicians and philosophers) who are interested in foundations of quantum physics. An emphasis was made on both theory and experiment, the underlying objective being to offer to the physical, mathematical and philosophic communities a truly interdisciplinary conference as a privileged place for a scientific interaction. Due to the actual increased role of foundations in the development of quantum information theory as well as the necessity to reconsider foundations at the beginning of the new millennium, the organizers of the conference decided that it was just the right time for taking the scientific risk of trying this.

id: quant-ph/0302066
title: Condition for unambiguous state discrimination with local operations and classical communication
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: 5 pages, Revtex4
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 69, 050307(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302066
abstract: We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for a finite set of states of a finite dimensional multiparticle quantum system to be amenable to unambiguous discrimination using local operations and classical communication. This condition is valid for states which may be be mixed, entangled or both. When the support of the set of states is the entire multiparticle Hilbert space, this condition is found to have an intriguing connection with the theory of entanglement witnesses.

id: quant-ph/0302067
title: Elementary Derivation for Passage Times
authors: Dorje C. Brody
comments: 8 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A36, 5587-5593 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302067
abstract: When a quantum system undergoes unitary evolution in accordance with a prescribed Hamiltonian, there is a class of states |psi> such that, after the passage of a certain time, |psi> is transformed into a state orthogonal to itself. The shortest time for which this can occur, for a given system, is called the passage time. We provide an elementary derivation of the passage time, and demonstrate that the known lower bound, due to Fleming, is typically attained, except for special cases in which the energy spectra have particularly simple structures. It is also shown, using a geodesic argument, that the passage times for these exceptional cases are necessarily larger than the Fleming bound. The analysis is extended to passage times for initially mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0302068
title: Experiment towards continuous-variable entanglement swapping: Highly correlated four-partite quantum state
authors: Oliver Gl?ckl, Stefan Lorenz, Christoph Marquardt, Joel Heersink, Michel Brownnutt, Christine Silberhorn, Qing Pan, Peter van Loock, Natalia Korolkova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, update of references 9 and 10; minor inconsistency in notation removed; format for units in the figures changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012319 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302068
abstract: We present a protocol for performing entanglement swapping with intense pulsed beams. In a first step, the generation of amplitude correlations between two systems that have never interacted directly is demonstrated. This is verified in direct detection with electronic modulation of the detected photocurrents. The measured correlations are better than expected from a classical reconstruction scheme. In the entanglement swapping process, a four--partite entangled state is generated. We prove experimentally that the amplitudes of the four optical modes are quantum correlated 3 dB below shot noise, which is due to the potential four--party entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0302069
title: Inequality for p-norms of positive matrices
authors: C. King
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302069
abstract: This paper derives an inequality relating the p-norm of a positive 2 x 2 block matrix to the p-norm of the 2 x 2 matrix obtained by replacing each block by its p-norm. The inequality had been known for integer values of p, so the main contribution here is the extension to all values p >= 1. In a special case the result reproduces Hanner's inequality. As an application in quantum information theory, the inequality is used to obtain some results concerning maximal p-norms of product channels.

id: quant-ph/0302070
title: Polarization qubit phase gate in driven atomic media
authors: Carlo Ottaviani, David Vitali, Maurizio Artoni, Francesco Cataliotti, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, in press on PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 197902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302070
abstract: We present here an all--optical scheme for the experimental realization of a quantum phase gate. It is based on the polarization degree of freedom of two travelling single photon wave-packets and exploits giant Kerr nonlinearities that can be attained in coherently driven ultracold atomic media.

id: quant-ph/0302071
title: The Casimir force between rough metallic plates
authors: Cyriaque Genet, Astrid Lambrecht, Paulo Maia Neto, Serge Reynaud
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, epl style, minor changes
journal: Europhys. Lett. 62 (2003) 484-490
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302071
abstract: The Casimir force between two metallic plates is affected by their roughness state. This effect is usually calculated through the so-called `proximity force approximation' which is only valid for small enough wavevectors in the spectrum of the roughness profile. We introduce here a more general description with a wavevector-dependent roughness sensitivity of the Casimir effect. Since the proximity force approximation underestimates the effect, a measurement of the roughness spectrum is needed to achieve the desired level of accuracy in the theory-experiment comparison.

id: quant-ph/0302072
title: Electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations, Casimir and Van der Waals forces
authors: Cyriaque Genet, Francesco Intravaia, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, final version
journal: Ann. Fond. L. de Broglie 29 (2004) 311-328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302072
abstract: Electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations have observable consequences, like the Casimir force between mirrors in vacuum. This force is now measured with good accuracy and agreement with theory when the effect of imperfect reflection of mirrors is properly taken into account. We discuss the simple case of bulk metallic mirrors described by a plasma model and show that simple scaling laws are obtained at the limits of long and short distances. The crossover between the short and long-distance laws is quite similar to the crossover between Van der Waals and Casimir-Polder forces for two atoms in vacuum. The result obtained at short distances can be understood as the London interaction between plasmon excitations at the surface of each bulk mirror.

id: quant-ph/0302073
title: Recent Experiments on the Casimir Effect: Description and Analysis
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Poincar\'e Seminar 2002, B.Duplantier & V. Rivasseau eds (Birkh\"auser, 2003) 109-126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302073
abstract: Contribution to the Seminaire Poincare, 2002

id: quant-ph/0302074
title: Effect of collision dephasing on atomic evolutions in a high-Q cavity
authors: T. W. Chen, P. T. Leung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302074
abstract: The decoherence mechanism of a single atom inside a high-Q cavity is studied, and the results are compared with experimental observations performed by M. Brune et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 1800 (1996)]. Collision dephasing and cavity leakage are considered as the major sources giving rise to decoherence effect. In particular, we show that the experimental data can be fitted very well by assuming suitable values of collision Stark shifts and dark count rate in the detector.

id: quant-ph/0302075
title: Quantitative complementarity relations in bipartite systems
authors: Matthias Jakob, Janos A. Bergou
comments: Revtex4, 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302075
abstract: We introduce a complete set of complementary quantities in bipartite, two-dimensional systems. Complementarity then relates the quantitative entanglement measure concurrence which is a bipartite property to the single-particle quantum properties predictability and visibility, for the most general quantum state of two qubits. Consequently, from an interferometric point of view, the usual wave-particle duality relation must be extended to a ``triality'' relation containing, in addition, the quantitative entanglement measure concurrence, which has no classical counterpart and manifests a genuine quantum aspect of bipartite systems. A generalized duality relation, that also governs possible violations of the Bell's inequality, arises between single- and bipartite properties.

id: quant-ph/0302076
title: Implications of Lorentz covariance for the guidance equation in two-slit quantum interference
authors: Peter Holland, Chris Philippidis
comments: 27 pages including 6 pages of figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302076
abstract: It is known that Lorentz covariance fixes uniquely the current and the associated guidance law in the trajectory interpretation of quantum mechanics for spin particles. In the non-relativistic domain this implies a guidance law for the electron which differs by an additional spin-dependent term from that originally proposed by de Broglie and Bohm. In this paper we explore some of the implications of the modified guidance law. We bring out a property of mutual dependence in the particle coordinates that arises in product states, and show that the quantum potential has scalar and vector components which implies the particle is subject to a Lorentz-like force. The conditions for the classical limit and the limit of negligible spin are given, and the empirical sufficiency of the model is demonstrated. We then present a series of calculations of the trajectories based on two-dimensional Gaussian wave packets which illustrate how the additional spin-dependent term plays a significant role in structuring both the individual trajectories and the ensemble. The single packet corresponds to quantum inertial motion. The distinct features encountered when the wavefunction is a product or a superposition are explored, and the trajectories that model the two-slit experiment are given. The latter paths exhibit several new characteristics compared with the original de Broglie-Bohm ones, such as crossing of the axis of symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0302077
title: Topological Quantum Gates with Quantum Dots
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Jour. of Opt. B (special issue on Quantum Computing)
journal: Jour. of Opt. B, Vol. 5, p. S643 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302077
abstract: We present an idealized model involving interacting quantum dots that can support both the dynamical and geometrical forms of quantum computation. We show that by employing a structure similar to the one used in the Aharonov-Bohm effect we can construct a topological two-qubit phase-gate that is to a large degree independent of the exact values of the control parameters and therefore resilient to control errors. The main components of the setup are realizable with present technology.

id: quant-ph/0302078
title: Security of Quantum Key Distribution with entangled quNits
authors: Thomas Durt, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Jing-Ling Chen, L.C. Kwek
comments: 15 pages, equation 15 and conclusions corrected the 14th of April 2003, new results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302078
abstract: We consider a generalisation of Ekert's entanglement-based quantum cryptographic protocol where qubits are replaced by qu$N$its (i.e., N-dimensional systems). In order to study its robustness against optimal incoherent attacks, we derive the information gained by a potential eavesdropper during a cloning-based individual attack. In doing so, we generalize Cerf's formalism for cloning machines and establish the form of the most general cloning machine that respects all the symmetries of the problem. We obtain an upper bound on the error rate that guarantees the confidentiality of quNit generalisations of the Ekert's protocol for qubits.

id: quant-ph/0302079
title: 3-Local Hamiltonian is QMA-complete
authors: Julia Kempe, Oded Regev
comments: 7 pages, minor changes and corrections, published version
journal: Quantum Computation and Information, Vol. 3(3), p. 258-64, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302079
abstract: It has been shown by Kitaev that the 5-local Hamiltonian problem is QMA-complete. Here we reduce the locality of the problem by showing that 3-local Hamiltonian is already QMA-complete.

id: quant-ph/0302080
title: Quantum Trajectories and Quantum Measurement Theory
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages. A review article publihsed in 1996 which has been picking up some citations, so I thought I would post it here
journal: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. {\bf 8}, 205-222 (1996)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302080
abstract: Beyond their use as numerical tools, quantum trajectories can be ascribed a degree of reality in terms of quantum measurement theory. In fact, they arise naturally from considering continuous observation of a damped quantum system. A particularly useful form of quantum trajectories is as linear (but non-unitary) stochastic Schrodinger equations. In the limit where a strong local oscillator is used in the detection, and where the system is not driven, these quantum trajectories can be solved. This gives an alternate derivation of the probability distributions for completed homodyne and heterodyne detection schemes. It also allows the previously intractable problem of real-time adaptive measurements to be treated. The results for an analytically soluble example of adaptive phase measurements are presented, and future developments discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302081
title: Geometry of the 3-Qubit State, Entanglement and Division Algebras
authors: Bogdan A. Bernevig, Han-Dong Chen
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 36, 8325 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302081
abstract: We present a generalization to 3-qubits of the standard Bloch sphere representation for a single qubit and of the 7-dimensional sphere representation for 2 qubits presented in Mosseri {\it et al.}\cite{Mosseri2001}. The Hilbert space of the 3-qubit system is the 15-dimensional sphere $S^{15}$, which allows for a natural (last) Hopf fibration with $S^8$ as base and $S^7$ as fiber. A striking feature is, as in the case of 1 and 2 qubits, that the map is entanglement sensitive, and the two distinct ways of un-entangling 3 qubits are naturally related to the Hopf map. We define a quantity that measures the degree of entanglement of the 3-qubit state. Conjectures on the possibility to generalize the construction for higher qubit states are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302082
title: Entangled states and collective nonclassical effects in two-atom systems
authors: Z.Ficek, R. Tanas
comments: Review article
journal: Phys. Rep. 372, 369 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302082
abstract: We propose a review of recent developments on entanglement and non-classical effects in collective two-atom systems and present a uniform physical picture of the many predicted phenomena. The collective effects have brought into sharp focus some of the most basic features of quantum theory, such as nonclassical states of light and entangled states of multiatom systems. The entangled states are linear superpositions of the internal states of the system which cannot be separated into product states of the individual atoms. This property is recognized as entirely quantum-mechanical effect and have played a crucial role in many discussions of the nature of quantum measurements and, in particular, in the developments of quantum communications. Much of the fundamental interest in entangled states is connected with its practical application ranging from quantum computation, information processing, cryptography, and interferometry to atomic spectroscopy.

id: quant-ph/0302083
title: A pulsed source of continuous variable polarization entanglement
authors: O. Gl?ckl, J. Heersink, N. Korolkova, G. Leuchs, S. Lorenz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302083
abstract: We have experimentally demonstrated polarization entanglement using continuous variables in an ultra-short pulsed laser system at telecommunication wavelengths. Exploiting the Kerr-nonlinearity of a glass fibre we generated a polarization squeezed pulse with S2 the only non-zero Stokes parameter thus S1 and S3 being the conjugate pair. Polarization entanglement was generated by interference of the polarization squeezed field with a vacuum on a 50:50 beam splitter. The two resultant beams exhibit strong quantum noise correlations in S1 and S3. The sum noise signal of S3 was at the respective shot noise level and the difference noise signal of S1 fell 2.9dB below this value.

id: quant-ph/0302084
title: P,T,PT, and CPT invariance of Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 8 pages, no figures, text modified, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302084
abstract: Currently, it has been claimed that certain Hermitian Hamiltonians have parity (P) and they are PT-invariant. We propose generalized definitions of time-reversal operator (T) and orthonormality such that all Hermitian Hamiltonians are P, T, PT, and CPT invariant. The PT-norm and CPT-norm are indefinite and definite respectively. The energy-eigenstates are either E-type (e.g., even) or O-type (e.g., odd). C mimics the charge-conjugation symmetry which is recently found to exist for a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. For a Hermitian Hamiltonian it coincides with P.

id: quant-ph/0302085
title: Two-particle interference in standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics
authors: E. Guay, L. Marchildon
comments: Minor corrections, 2 references added, version to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 5617-24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302085
abstract: The compatibility of standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics has recently been challenged in the context of two-particle interference, both from a theoretical and an experimental point of view. We analyze different setups proposed and derive corresponding exact forms for Bohmian equations of motion. The equations are then solved numerically, and shown to reproduce standard quantum-mechanical results.

id: quant-ph/0302086
title: On entanglement capabilities in infinite dimensions or multi-dimensional entangled coherent states
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 4 pages ReVTeX, 1 figure. Added a proof, plus a reference, plus an acknowledgement, minus a typo
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 017902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302086
abstract: An example is given of an interaction that produces an infinite amount of entanglement in an infinitely short time, but only a finite amount in longer times. The interaction arises from a standard Kerr nonlinearity and a 50/50 beamsplitter, and the initial state is a coherent state. For certain finite interaction times multi-dimensional generalizations of entangled coherent states are generated, for which we construct a teleportation protocol. Similarities between probabilistic teleportation and unambiguous state discrimination are pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0302087
title: Contextual Realization of the Universal Quantum Cloning Machine and of the Universal-NOT gate by Quantum Injected Optical Parametric Amplification
authors: D. Pelliccia, V. Schettini, F. Sciarrino, C. Sias, F. De Martini
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042306 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302087
abstract: A simultaneous, contextual experimental demonstration of the two processes of cloning an input qubit and of flipping it into the orthogonal qubit is reported. The adopted experimental apparatus, a Quantum-Injected Optical Parametric Amplifier (QIOPA) is transformed simultaneously into a Universal Optimal Quantum Cloning Machine (UOQCM) and into a Universal NOT quantum-information gate. The two processes, indeed forbidden in their exact form for fundamental quantum limitations, will be found to be universal and optimal, i.e. the measured fidelity of both processes F<1 will be found close to the limit values evaluated by quantum theory. A contextual theoretical and experimental investigation of these processes, which may represent the basic difference between the classical and the quantum worlds, can reveal in a unifying manner the detailed structure of quantum information. It may also enlighten the yet little explored interconnections of fundamental axiomatic properties within the deep structure of quantum mechanics. PACS numbers: 03.67.-a, 03.65.Ta, 03.65.Ud

id: quant-ph/0302088
title: Quantum Mechanics with Trajectories: Quantum Trajectories and Adaptive Grids
authors: Robert E. Wyatt, Eric R. Bittner
comments: Prepared for CiSE, Computing in Science and Engineering IEEE/AIP special issue on computational chemistry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302088
abstract: Although the foundations of the hydrodynamical formulation of quantum mechanics were laid over 50 years ago, it has only been within the past few years that viable computational implementations have been developed. One approach to solving the hydrodynamic equations uses quantum trajectories as the computational tool. The trajectory equations of motion are described and methods for implementation are discussed, including fitting of the fields to gaussian clusters.

id: quant-ph/0302089
title: A tomographic approach to quantum nonlocality
authors: Stefano Mancini, Vladimir I. Man'ko, Evgeny V. Shchukin, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, IOP style, to appear in the Special Issue of J Opt.B connected with Wigner Centennial conference (references added and updated)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 5, S333 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302089
abstract: We propose a tomographic approach to study quantum nonlocality in continuous variable quantum systems. On one hand we derive a Bell-like inequality for measured tomograms. On the other hand, we introduce pseudospin operators whose statistics can be inferred from the data characterizing the reconstructed state, thus giving the possibility to use standard Bell's inequalities. Illuminating examples are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302090
title: The Conflict between Bell-Zukowski Inequality and Bell-Mermin Inequality
authors: Koji Nagata, Jaewook Ahn
comments: To appear in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 23, 2967 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302090
abstract: We consider a two-particle/two-setting Bell experiment to visualize the conflict between Bell-\.Zukowski inequality and Bell-Mermin inequality. The experiment is reproducible by local realistic theories which are not rotationally invariant. We found that the average value of the Bell-\.Zukowski operator can be evaluated only by the two-particle/two-setting Bell experiment in question. The Bell-\.Zukowski inequality reveals that the constructed local realistic models for the experiment are not rotationally invariant. That is, the two-particle Bell experiment in question reveals the conflict between Bell-\.Zukowski inequality and Bell-Mermin inequality. Our analysis has found the threshold visibility for the two-particle interference to reveal the conflict noted above. It is found that the threshold visibility agrees with the value to obtain a violation of the Bell-\.Zukowski inequality.

id: quant-ph/0302091
title: Quantum communication protocols using the vacuum
authors: Xiatra Anderson, S.J. van Enk, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure (upside-down). Speculative; comments are welcome
journal: QIC 3, 423 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302091
abstract: We speculate what quantum information protocols can be implemented between two accelerating observers using the vacuum. Whether it is in principle possible or not to implement a protocol depends on whether the aim is to end up with classical information or quantum information. Thus, unconditionally secure coin flipping seems possible but not teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0302092
title: Squeezing Quantum Information through a Classical Channel: Measuring the "Quantumness" of a Set of Quantum States
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 28 pages, no figures, some pedagogic changes made and some references added, to appear in QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302092
abstract: In this paper we propose a general method to quantify how "quantum" a set of quantum states is. The idea is to gauge the quantumness of the set by the worst-case difficulty of transmitting the states through a purely classical communication channel. Potential applications of this notion arise in quantum cryptography, where one might like to use an alphabet of states that promises to be the most sensitive to quantum eavesdropping, and in laboratory demonstrations of quantum teleportation, where it is necessary to check that quantum entanglement has actually been used in the protocol.

id: quant-ph/0302093
title: New classes of n-copy undistillable quantum states with negative partial transposition
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: Latex, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022319 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302093
abstract: The discovery of entangled quantum states from which one cannot distill pure entanglement constitutes a fundamental recent advance in the field of quantum information. Such bipartite bound-entangled (BE) quantum states \emph{could} fall into two distinct categories: (1) Inseparable states with positive partial transposition (PPT), and (2) States with negative partial transposition (NPT). While the existence of PPT BE states has been confirmed, \emph{only one} class of \emph{conjectured} NPT BE states has been discovered so far. We provide explicit constructions of a variety of multi-copy undistillable NPT states, and conjecture that they constitute families of NPT BE states. For example, we show that for every pure state of Schmidt rank greater than or equal to three, one can construct n-copy undistillable NPT states, for any $n\geq1$. The abundance of such conjectured NPT BE states, we believe, considerably strengthens the notion that being NPT is only a necessary condition for a state to be distillable.

id: quant-ph/0302094
title: Enhanced the thermal Entanglement in Anisotropy XYZ Heisenberg Chain
authors: L. Zhou, H. S. Song, Y. Q. Guo
comments: 4 pages 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 024301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302094
abstract: The thermal entanglement in Heisenberg $XYZ$ chain is investigated in the presence of external magnetic field $B$. In the two-qubit system, the critical magnetic field $B_c$ is increased because of introducing the interaction of the z-component of two neighboring spins $J_z$. This interaction not only improves the critical temperature $T_c,$ but also enhances the entanglement for particular fixed $B$. We also analyze the pairwise entanglement between nearest neighbors in three qubits. The pairwise entanglement, for a fixed $T$, can be strong by controlling $B$ and $J_z$. PACS: 03.65. Ud, 03.67. -a, 75.10. Jm

id: quant-ph/0302095
title: Entangled Light in Moving Frames
authors: Attila J. Bergou, Robert M. Gingrich, Christoph Adami
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures. Minor corrections, footnote on optimal basis states
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 042102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302095
abstract: We calculate the entanglement between a pair of polarization-entangled photon beams as a function of the reference frame, in a fully relativistic framework. We find the transformation law for helicity basis states and show that, while it is frequency independent, a Lorentz transformation on a momentum-helicity eigenstate produces a momentum-dependent phase. This phase leads to changes in the reduced polarization density matrix, such that entanglement is either decreased or increased, depending on the boost direction, the rapidity, and the spread of the beam.

id: quant-ph/0302096
title: Equivalence between the real time Feynman histories and the quantum shutter approaches for the "passage time" in tunneling
authors: Gaston Garcia-Calderon, Jorge Villavicencio, Norifumi Yamada
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302096
abstract: We show the equivalence of the functions $G_{\rm p}(t)$ and $|\Psi(d,t)|^2$ for the ``passage time'' in tunneling. The former, obtained within the framework of the real time Feynman histories approach to the tunneling time problem, using the Gell-Mann and Hartle's decoherence functional, and the latter involving an exact analytical solution to the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation for cutoff initial waves.

id: quant-ph/0302097
title: Quantised Three-Pillar Problem
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302097
abstract: This paper examines the quantum mechanical system that arises when one quantises a classical mechanical configuration described by an underdetermined system of equations. Specifically, we consider the well-known problem in classical mechanics in which a beam is supported by three identical rigid pillars. For this problem it is not possible to calculate uniquely the forces supplied by each pillar. However, if the pillars are replaced by springs, then the forces are uniquely determined. The three-pillar problem and its associated indeterminacy is recovered in the limit as the spring constant tends to infinity. In this paper the spring version of the problem is quantised as a constrained dynamical system. It is then shown that as the spring constant becomes large, the quantum analog of the ambiguity reemerges as a kind of quantum anomaly.

id: quant-ph/0302098
title: Cold atoms in a high-Q ring-cavity
authors: D. Kruse, M. Ruder, J. Benhelm, C. von Cube, C. Zimmermann, Ph. W. Courteille, Th. Elsaesser, B. Nagorny, A. Hemmerich
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302098
abstract: We report the confinement of large clouds of ultra-cold 85-Rb atoms in a standing-wave dipole trap formed by the two counter-propagating modes of a high-Q ring-cavity. Studying the properties of this trap we demonstrate loading of higher-order transverse cavity modes and excite recoil-induced resonances.

id: quant-ph/0302099
title: Derivation of the Symmetry Postulates for Identical Particles from Pilot-Wave Theories
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302099
abstract: The symmetries of the wavefunction for identical particles, including anyons, are given a rigorous non-relativistic derivation within pilot-wave formulations of quantum mechanics. In particular, parastatistics are excluded. The result has a rigorous generalisation to n particles and to spinorial wavefunctions. The relation to other non-relativistic approaches is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302100
title: Polarization squeezing of intense pulses with a fiber Sagnac interferometer
authors: J. Heersink, T. Gaber, S. Lorenz, O. Gl?ckl, N. Korolkova, G. Leuchs
comments: v4: 2 small typos corrected v3: misc problems with Tex surmounted - mysteriously missing text returned to results - vol# for Korolkova et al. PRA v2: was a spelling change in author list
journal: PRA 68 013815 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302100
abstract: We report on the generation of polarization squeezing of intense, short light pulses using an asymmetric fiber Sagnac interferometer. The Kerr nonlinearity of the fiber is exploited to produce independent amplitude squeezed pulses. The polarization squeezing properties of spatially overlapped amplitude squeezed and coherent states are discussed. The experimental results for a single amplitude squeezed beam are compared to the case of two phase-matched, spatially overlapped amplitude squeezed pulses. For the latter, noise variances of -3.4dB below shot noise in the S0 and the S1 and of -2.8dB in the S2 Stokes parameters were observed, which is comparable to the input squeezing magnitude. Polarization squeezing, that is squeezing relative to a corresponding polarization minimum uncertainty state, was generated in S1.

id: quant-ph/0302101
title: Teleportation via thermally entangled state of a three-qubit Heisenberg XX ring
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 15 pages, 3 tables, REVTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302101
abstract: We consider quantum teleportation using the thermally entangled state of a three-qubit Heisenberg XX ring as a resource. Our investigation reveals interesting aspects of quantum entanglement not reflected by the pairwise thermal concurrence of the state. In particular, two mixtures of different pairs of W states, which result in the same concurrence, could yield very differrent average teleportation fidelities.

id: quant-ph/0302102
title: Separable balls around the maximally mixed multipartite quantum states
authors: Leonid Gurvits, Howard Barnum
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042312 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302102
abstract: We show that for an m-partite quantum system, there is a ball of radius 2^{-(m/2-1)} in Frobenius norm, centered at the identity matrix, of separable (unentangled) positive semidefinite matrices. This can be used to derive an epsilon below which mixtures of epsilon of any density matrix with 1 - epsilon of the maximally mixed state will be separable. The epsilon thus obtained is exponentially better (in the number of systems) than existing results. This gives a number of qubits below which NMR with standard pseudopure-state preparation techniques can access only unentangled states; with parameters realistic for current experiments, this is 23 qubits (compared to 13 qubits via earlier results). A ball of radius 1 is obtained for multipartite states separable over the reals.

id: quant-ph/0302103
title: Entanglement purification of multi-mode quantum states
authors: J Clausen, L Knoell, D-G Welsch
comments: 6 pages, 3 eps-figures, using revtex4
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics, volume 5, issue 6, pages S561 - S566 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302103
abstract: An iterative random procedure is considered allowing an entanglement purification of a class of multi-mode quantum states. In certain cases, a complete purification may be achieved using only a single signal state preparation. A physical implementation based on beam splitter arrays and non-linear elements is suggested. The influence of loss is analyzed in the example of a purification of entangled N-mode coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0302104
title: Adiabatic passage and dissociation controlled by interference of two laser-induced continuum structures
authors: A. K. Popov, V. V. Kimberg, Thomas F. George
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302104
abstract: We have developed a theory of three-pulse coherent control of photochemical processes. It is based on adiabatic passage and quantum coherence and interference attributed to the lower-lying dissociation continuum and excited upper discrete states, which are otherwise not connected to the ground state by one-photon transitions. Novel opportunities offered by the proposed scheme are demonstrated through extensive numerical simulations with the aid of a model relevant to typical experiments. The opportunities for manipulating the distribution of the population among discrete and continuous states with any necessary ratio by the end of the pulses are demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0302105
title: Non-post-selection entanglement concentration by ordinary linear optical devices
authors: Wang Xiang-bin, Fan Heng
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. A as a Rapid communication already. This paper was orally reported in the 2nd Asia Pacific workshop of Quantum Information Processing, SIngapore. Some related references are added. Some related references are added
journal: Physical Review A 68, 060302(R), (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302105
abstract: Two remote parties, Alice and Bob initially share some non-maximally entangled states. Through the entanglement concentration by local operation and classical communication(LOCC), they may obtain an outcome of maximally entangled states in the price of decreasing the number of pairs shared by them. Recently, entanglement concentration have been experimently demonstrated by post-selection (T. Yamamoto et al, Nature, 421, 343(2003) and Z. Zhao et al, quant-ph/0301118). Here we give a modified scheme which can be used for the entanglement concentration without any post selection by using only practically existing linear optical devices. In particular, a sophisticated photon detector to distinguish one photon or two photons is not required. Our scheme can be used to really produce the event-ready maximally entangled pairs through LOCC provided that the requested raw pairs are supplied deterministically. A detailed experimental plan with spontaneous parametric down conversion(SPDC) is shown.

id: quant-ph/0302106
title: Deformation Quantization of Nambu Mechanics
authors: Cosmas K Zachos, Thomas L Curtright
comments: Invited talk by the first author at the Coral Gables Conference (C02/12/11.2), Ft Lauderdale, Dec 2002. 14p, LateX2e, aipproc, amsfonts
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.672:183-196,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302106
abstract: Phase Space is the framework best suited for quantizing superintegrable systems--systems with more conserved quantities than degrees of freedom. In this quantization method, the symmetry algebras of the hamiltonian invariants are preserved most naturally, as illustrated on nonlinear $\sigma$-models, specifically for Chiral Models and de Sitter $N$-spheres. Classically, the dynamics of superintegrable models such as these is automatically also described by Nambu Brackets involving the extra symmetry invariants of them. The phase-space quantization worked out then leads to the quantization of the corresponding Nambu Brackets, validating Nambu's original proposal, despite excessive fears of inconsistency which have arisen over the years. This is a pedagogical talk based on hep-th/0205063 and hep-th/0212267, stressing points of interpretation and care needed in appreciating the consistency of Quantum Nambu Brackets in phase space. For a parallel discussion in Hilbert space, see T Curtright's contribution in these Proceedings [hep-th 0303088].

id: quant-ph/0302107
title: 1/N-expansions in non-relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Niels Emil Jannik Bjerrum-Bohr
comments: 23 pages, 12 figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 41 (2000) 2515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302107
abstract: An extensive number of numerical computations of energy 1/$N$ series using a recursive Taylor series method are presented in this paper. The series are computed to a high order of approximation and their behaviour on increasing the order of approximation is examined.

id: quant-ph/0302108
title: The Quantumness of a Set of Quantum States
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 6 pages, no figures, requires Rinton-P9x6.cls; to appear in QCMC'02 proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302108
abstract: This article is an introduction to quant-ph/0302092. We propose to quantify how "quantum" a set of quantum states is. The quantumness of a set is the worst-case difficulty of transmitting the states through a classical communication channel. Potential applications of this measure arise in quantum cryptography, where one might like to use an alphabet of states most sensitive to quantum eavesdropping, and in lab demonstrations of quantum teleportation, where it is necessary to check that entanglement has indeed been used.

id: quant-ph/0302109
title: Applications of Coherent Population Transfer to Quantum Information Processing
authors: R. G.Beausoleil, W. J. Munro, T. P. Spiller
comments: 25 pages, 14 figures
journal: Topic Review in JMO 51, 1559-1601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302109
abstract: We develop a theoretical framework for the exploration of quantum mechanical coherent population transfer phenomena, with the ultimate goal of constructing faithful models of devices for classical and quantum information processing applications. We begin by outlining a general formalism for weak-field quantum optics in the Schr\"{o}dinger picture, and we include a general phenomenological representation of Lindblad decoherence mechanisms. We use this formalism to describe the interaction of a single stationary multilevel atom with one or more propagating classical or quantum laser fields, and we describe in detail several manifestations and applications of electromagnetically induced transparency. In addition to providing a clear description of the nonlinear optical characteristics of electromagnetically transparent systems that lead to ``ultraslow light,'' we verify that -- in principle -- a multi-particle atomic or molecular system could be used as either a low power optical switch or a quantum phase shifter. However, we demonstrate that the presence of significant dephasing effects destroys the induced transparency, and that increasing the number of particles weakly interacting with the probe field only reduces the nonlinearity further. Finally, a detailed calculation of the relative quantum phase induced by a system of atoms on a superposition of spatially distinct Fock states predicts that a significant quasi-Kerr nonlinearity and a low entropy cannot be simultaneously achieved in the presence of arbitrary spontaneous emission rates. Within our model, we identify the constraints that need to be met for this system to act as a one-qubit and a two-qubit conditional phase gate.

id: quant-ph/0302110
title: Optical Detection of a Single Nuclear Spin
authors: K-M.C. Fu, T.D. Ladd, C. Santori, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 125306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302110
abstract: We propose a method to optically detect the spin state of a 31-P nucleus embedded in a 28-Si matrix. The nuclear-electron hyperfine splitting of the 31-P neutral-donor ground state can be resolved via a direct frequency discrimination measurement of the 31-P bound exciton photoluminescence using single photon detectors. The measurement time is expected to be shorter than the lifetime of the nuclear spin at 4 K and 10 T.

id: quant-ph/0302111
title: Classical and quantum communication without a shared reference frame
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, R. W. Spekkens
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 027901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302111
abstract: We show that communication without a shared reference frame is possible using entangled states. Both classical and quantum information can be communicated with perfect fidelity without a shared reference frame at a rate that asymptotically approaches one classical bit or one encoded qubit per transmitted qubit. We present an optical scheme to communicate classical bits without a shared reference frame using entangled photon pairs and linear optical Bell state measurements.

id: quant-ph/0302112
title: A subexponential-time quantum algorithm for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem
authors: Greg Kuperberg
comments: 11 pages. Revised in response to referee reports. Early sections are more accessible; expanded section on other hidden subgroup problems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302112
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem with time and query complexity $O(\exp(C\sqrt{\log N}))$. In this problem an oracle computes a function $f$ on the dihedral group $D_N$ which is invariant under a hidden reflection in $D_N$. By contrast the classical query complexity of DHSP is $O(\sqrt{N})$. The algorithm also applies to the hidden shift problem for an arbitrary finitely generated abelian group. The algorithm begins with the quantum character transform on the group, just as for other hidden subgroup problems. Then it tensors irreducible representations of $D_N$ and extracts summands to obtain target representations. Finally, state tomography on the target representations reveals the hidden subgroup.

id: quant-ph/0302113
title: Non-locality:what are the odds?
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 9p. LaTeX, 1 fig. eps; v2: fixed misleading/wrong statements about relationship between this work & popular views
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302113
abstract: As part of a challenge to critics of Bell's analysis of the EPR argument, framed in the form of a bet, R. D. Gill formulated criteria to assure that all non-locality is precluded from simulation-algorithms used to test Bell's theorem. This is achieved in part by parceling out the subroutines for the source and both detectors to three separate computers. He argues that, in light of Bell's theorem, following these criteria absolutely precludes mimicking EPR-B correlations as computed with Quantum Mechanics and observed in experiments. Herein, nevertheless, we describe just such an local algorithm, fully faithful to his criteria, that yields results mimicking exactly quantum correlations. We observe that our simulation-algorithm succeeds by altering an implicit assumption made by Bell to the equivalent effect that the source of EPR pairs is a single Poisson process followed by deterministic detection. Instead we assume the converse, namely that the source is deterministic but detection involves multiple, independent Poisson processes, one at each detector with an intensity given by Malus' Law. Finally, we speculate on some consequences this might have for quantum computing algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0302114
title: An Introduction to Quantum Teleportation
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Kiyoshi Tamaki
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Math. Sciences (Suri-Kagaku) 473, 28--34 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302114
abstract: Recent experiments confirm that quantum teleportation is possible at least for states of photons and nuclear spins. The quantum teleportation is not only a curious effect but a fundamental protocol of quantum communication and quantum computing. The principles of the quantum teleportation and the entanglement swapping are explained, and physical realizations of teleportation of optical and atomic states are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302115
title: Remarks on Causality in Relativistic Quantum Field Theory
authors: Miklos Redei, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 10 pages, Latex, Quantum Structures 2002 Conference Proceedings submission. Minor revision of the order of definitions on p. 3
journal: Erratum-ibid.46:2053-2062,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302115
abstract: It is shown that the correlations predicted by relativistic quantum field theory in locally normal states between projections in local von Neumann algebras $\cA(V_1),\cA(V_2)$ associated with spacelike separated spacetime regions $V_1,V_2$ have a (Reichenbachian) common cause located in the union of the backward light cones of $V_1$ and $V_2$. Further comments on causality and independence in quantum field theory are made.

id: quant-ph/0302116
title: Time operator for a quantum many-body system with SU(1,1) dynamical symmetry
authors: I. Andric, M. Martinis
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302116
abstract: The time operator canonically conjugated to the Hamiltonian of $N$ interacting particles on the line is constructed using SU(1,1) as a dynamical symmetry. This hidden conformal symmetry enables us to make a group theoretic analysis of the time operator in terms of SU(1,1) generators. At distances very far from the interacting region the time operator is represented as a generalization of the quantum "time-of-arrival" operator.

id: quant-ph/0302117
title: Systematics of the Relationship between Vacuum Energy Calculations and Heat Kernel Coefficients
authors: S. A. Fulling
comments: 19 pages, RevTeX; Discussion section rewritten in response to referees' comments, references added, minor typos corrected
journal: J.Phys.A36:6857-6873,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302117
abstract: Casimir energy is a nonlocal effect; its magnitude cannot be deduced from heat kernel expansions, even those including the integrated boundary terms. On the other hand, it is known that the divergent terms in the regularized (but not yet renormalized) total vacuum energy are associated with the heat kernel coefficients. Here a recent study of the relations among the eigenvalue density, the heat kernel, and the integral kernel of the operator $e^{-t\sqrt{H}}$ is exploited to characterize this association completely. Various previously isolated observations about the structure of the regularized energy emerge naturally. For over 20 years controversies have persisted stemming from the fact that certain (presumably physically meaningful) terms in the renormalized vacuum energy density in the interior of a cavity become singular at the boundary and correlate to certain divergent terms in the regularized total energy. The point of view of the present paper promises to help resolve these issues.

id: quant-ph/0302118
title: Representation of Entangled States
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 7 pages, edited material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302118
abstract: Associating a physical process with the pure entangled state 1/sqrt 2 (|00> + |11>) is an idealization unless the pair is so prepared using an appropriate quantum gate operating on a known state. Questions related to the reference frame for measurement of the entangled state are considered. Some applications are described.

id: quant-ph/0302119
title: Exact time-dependent decoherence factor and its adiabatic classical limit
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Pan Chen, Hong Mao
comments: 6 pages, Latex
journal: Can. J. Phys. vol.81 (10): 1185-1191 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302119
abstract: The present paper finds the complete set of exact solutions of the general time-dependent dynamical models for quantum decoherence, by making use of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory and the invariant-related unitary transformation formulation. Based on this, the general explicit expression for the decoherence factor is then obtained and the adiabatic classical limit of an illustrative example is discussed. The result (i.e., the adiabatic classical limit) obtained in this paper is consistent with what obtained by other authors, and futhermore we obtain the more general results concerning the time-dependent non-adiabatic quantum decoherence. It is shown that the invariant theory is appropriate for treating both the time-dependent quantum decoherence and the geometric phase factor.

id: quant-ph/0302120
title: Geometric Phase and Helicity Inversion of Photons Propagating inside a Noncoplanarly Curved Optical Fiber
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Li-Hong Ma
comments: 8 pages, Latex. accepted by Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A Vol.308 (2003) p.355-363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302120
abstract: The Letter presents an exact expression for the non-adiabatic non-cyclic geometric phase of photons propagating inside a noncoplanarly curved optical fiber by using the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory. It is shown that the helicity inversion of photons arises in the curved fiber. Since we have exactly solved the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation that governs the propagation of photons in a curved fiber and, moreover, the chronological product is not involved in this exact solution, our formulation therefore has several advantages over other treatments based on the classical Maxwell's theory and the Berry's adiabatic quantum theory. The potential application of helicity inversion of photons to information science is briefly suggested.

id: quant-ph/0302121
title: Controllability of Quantum Systems
authors: S. G. Schirmer, I. C. H. Pullen, A. I. Solomon
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Proceedings of Conference on Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Methods in Non-Linear Control (Seville, Spain, 2003)
journal: Hamiltonian and Lagrangian Methods in Nonlinear Control (Elsevier Science Ltd, 2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302121
abstract: An overview and synthesis of results and criteria for open-loop controllability of Hamiltonian quantum systems obtained using Lie group and Lie algebra techniques is presented. Negative results for open-loop controllability of dissipative systems are discussed, and the superiority of closed-loop (feedback) control for quantum systems is established.

id: quant-ph/0302122
title: Perturbation approach to the Casimir force between two bodies made of different real metals
authors: B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.65, N6, p.062109-(1-6), 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302122
abstract: The Casimir force acting between two test bodies made of different metals is considered. The finiteness of the conductivity of the metals is taken into account perturbatively up to the fourth order of the relative penetration depths of electromagnetic zero-point oscillations into the metals. The influence of nonzero temperature is computed explicitly for separate orders of perturbation and found to be important in the zeroth and first orders only. The configurations of two parallel plates and a sphere (spherical lens) above a plate are considered made of $Au$ and $Cr$. The obtained results can be used to take into account also the surface roughness. Thus, the total amount of the Casimir force between different metals with all correction factors is determined. This may be useful in various applications.

id: quant-ph/0302123
title: Noether conservation laws in quantum mechanics
authors: G.Sardanashvily
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302123
abstract: Being quantized, conserved Noether symmetry functions are represented by Hermitian operators in the space of solutions of the Schrodinger equation, and their mean values are conserved.

id: quant-ph/0302124
title: Entanglement induced by spontaneous emission in spatially extended two-atom systems
authors: Z. Ficek, R. Tanas
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302124
abstract: We investigate the role of the collective antisymmetric state in entanglement creation by spontaneous emission in a system of two non-overlapping two-level atoms. We calculate and illustrate graphically populations of the collective atomic states and the Wootters entanglement measure (concurrence) for two sets of initial atomic conditions. Our calculations include the dipole-dipole interaction and a spatial separation between the atoms that the antisymmetric state of the system is included throughout even for small interatomic separations. It is shown that spontaneous emission can lead to a transient entanglement between the atoms even if the atoms were prepared initially in an unentangled state. We find that the ability of spontaneous emission to create the transient entanglement relies on the absence of population in the collective symmetric state of the system. For the initial state of only one atom excited, the entanglement builds up rapidly in time and reaches a maximum for the parameter values corresponding roughly to zero population in the symmetric state. On the other hand, for the initial condition of both atoms excited, the atoms remain unentangled until the symmetric state is depopulated. A simple physical interpretation of these results is given in terms of the diagonal states of the density matrix of the system. We also study entanglement creation in a system of two non-identical atoms of different transition frequencies. It is found that the entanglement between the atoms can be enhanced compared to that for identical atoms, and can decay with two different time scales resulting from the coherent transfer of the population from the symmetric to the antisymmetric state. In addition, we find that a decaying initial entanglement between the atoms can display a revival behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0302125
title: Requirement for quantum computation
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Vol. 50, pp. 2331-2340 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302125
abstract: We identify "proper quantum computation" with computational processes that cannot be efficiently simulated on a classical computer. For optical quantum computation, we establish "no-go" theorems for classes of quantum optical experiments that cannot yield proper quantum computation, and we identify requirements for optical proper quantum computation that correspond to violations of assumptions underpinning the no-go theorems.

id: quant-ph/0302126
title: Direct measurement of spatial Wigner function with area-integrated detection
authors: Eran Mukamel, Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley, Christophe Dorrer
comments: 3 pages, REVTeX
journal: Opt. Lett. 28, 1317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302126
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a novel technique for characterizing transverse spatial coherence using the Wigner distribution function. The presented method is based on measuring interference between a pair of rotated and displaced replicas of the input beam with an area-integrating detector, and it can be superior in regimes when array detectors are not available. We analyze the quantum optical picture of the presented measurement for single-photon signals and discuss possible applications in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0302127
title: Comment on "Quantum back-reaction through the Bohmian particle"
authors: L.L. Salcedo
comments: 1 page, REVTEX, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 118901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302127
abstract: In this Comment I point out some limitations of the proposal of Prezhdo and Brooksby for coupling quantum and classical degrees of freedom (Phys.Rev.Lett.86(2001)3215) if it is pushed too far.

id: quant-ph/0302128
title: The high energy limit of the trajectory representation of quantum mechanics
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 12 pages of LaTeX. No figures. Incorporated into the "Proceedings of the Seventh International Wigner Symposium" (ed. M. E. Noz), 24-29 August 2001, U. of Maryland. Proceedings available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302128
abstract: The trajectory representation in the high energy limit (Bohr correspondence principle) manifests a residual indeterminacy. This indeterminacy is compared to the indeterminacy found in the classical limit (Planck's constant to 0) [Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 15, 1363 (2000)] for particles in the classically allowed region, the classically forbiden region, and near the WKB turning point. The differences between Bohr's and Planck's principles for the trajectory representation are compared with the differences between these correspondence principles for the wave representation. The trajectory representation in the high energy limit is shown to go to neither classical nor statistical mechanics. The residual indeterminacy is contrasted to Heisenberg uncertainty. The relationship between indeterminacy and 't Hooft's information loss and equivalence classes is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0302129
title: Exact expression for decoherence factor in the time-dependent generalized Cini model
authors: Jian Qi Shen, San Shui Xiao, Qiang Wu
comments: 5 pages, Latex
journal: Chinese Optics Letters (Shanghai) Vol. 1, No.3 (2003) pp.183-186
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302129
abstract: The present letter finds the complete set of exact solutions of the time-dependent generalized Cini model by making use of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory and the invariant-related unitary transformation formulation and, based on this, the general explicit expression for the decoherence factor is therefore obtained. This study provides us with a useful method to consider the geometric phase and topological properties in the time-dependent quantum decoherence process.

id: quant-ph/0302130
title: Algebraic treatment of super-integrable potentials
authors: L. Chetouani, L. Guechi, T. F. Hammann
comments: 35 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 42 (2001) 4684 - 4707
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302130
abstract: The so$(2,1)$ Lie algebra is applied to three classes of two- and three-dimensional Smorodinsky-Winternitz super-integrable potentials for which the path integral discussion has been recently presented in the literature. We have constructed the Green's functions for two important super-integrable potentials in $R^{2}.$ Among the super-integrable potentials in $R^{3}$, we have considered two examples, one is maximally super-integrable and another one minimally super-integrable. The discussion is made in various coordinate systems. The energy spectrum and the suitably normalized wave functions of bound and continuous states are then deduced.

id: quant-ph/0302131
title: Collective Sideband Cooling in an Optical Ring Cavity
authors: Th. Elsaesser, B. Nagorny, A. Hemmerich
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302131
abstract: We propose a cavity based laser cooling and trapping scheme, providing tight confinement and cooling to very low temperatures, without degradation at high particle densities. A bidirectionally pumped ring cavity builds up a resonantly enhanced optical standing wave which acts to confine polarizable particles in deep potential wells. The particle localization yields a coupling of the degenerate travelling wave modes via coherent photon redistribution. This induces a splitting of the cavity resonances with a high frequency component, that is tuned to the anti-Stokes Raman sideband of the particles oscillating in the potential wells, yielding cooling due to excess anti-Stokes scattering. Tight confinement in the optical lattice together with the prediction, that more than 50% of the trapped particles can be cooled into the motional ground state, promise high phase space densities.

id: quant-ph/0302132
title: Controlled Quantum Open Systems
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the conference "Irreversible Quantum Dynamics", Trieste, 29 July - 2 August 2002 (Springer, LNP)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302132
abstract: The theory of controlled quantum open systems describes quantum systems interacting with quantum environments and influenced by external forces varying according to given algorithms. It is aimed, for instance, to model quantum devices which can find applications in the future technology based on quantum information processing. One of the main problems making difficult the practical implementations of quantum information theory is the fragility of quantum states under external perturbations. The aim of this note is to present the relevant results concerning ergodic properties of open quantum systems which are useful for the optimization of quantum devices and noise (errors) reduction. In particular we present mathematical characterization of the so-called "decoherence-free subspaces" for discrete and continuous-time quantum dynamical semigroups in terms of $C^*$-algebras and group representations. We analyze the non-Markovian models also, presenting the formulas for errors in the Born approximation. The obtained results are used to discuss the proposed different strategies of error reduction.

id: quant-ph/0302133
title: Is Quantum Chaos Weaker Than Classical Chaos?
authors: L.A. Caron, D. Huard, H. Kr?ger, G. Melkonyan, K.J.M. Moriarty, L.P. Nadeau
comments: text (LaTeX) + 7 figs.(ps)
journal: Phys.Lett. A322 (2004) 60-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302133
abstract: We investigate chaotic behavior in a 2-D Hamiltonian system - oscillators with anharmonic coupling. We compare the classical system with quantum system. Via the quantum action, we construct Poincar\'{e} sections and compute Lyapunov exponents for the quantum system. We find that the quantum system is globally less chaotic than the classical system. We also observe with increasing energy the distribution of Lyapunov exponts approaching a Gaussian with a strong correlation between its mean value and energy.

id: quant-ph/0302134
title: Notes on Hallgren's efficient quantum algorithm for solving Pell's equation
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: 31 pages. Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302134
abstract: Pell's equation is x^2-d*y^2=1 where d is a square-free integer and we seek positive integer solutions x,y>0. Let (x',y') be the smallest solution (i.e. having smallest A=x'+y'sqrt(d)). Lagrange showed that every solution can easily be constructed from A so given d it suffices to compute A. It is known that A can be exponentially large in d so just to write down A we need exponential time in the input size log d. Hence we introduce the regulator R=ln A and ask for the value of R to n decimal places. The best known classical algorithm has sub-exponential running time O(exp(sqrt(log d)), poly(n)). Hallgren's quantum algorithm gives the result in polynomial time O(poly(log d),poly(n)) with probability 1/poly(log d). The idea of the algorithm falls into two parts: using the formalism of algebraic number theory we convert the problem of solving Pell's equation into the problem of determining R as the period of a function on the real numbers. Then we generalise the quantum Fourier transform period finding algorithm to work in this situation of an irrational period on the (not finitely generated) abelian group of real numbers. These notes are intended to be accessible to a reader having no prior acquaintance with algebraic number theory; we give a self contained account of all the necessary concepts and we give elementary proofs of all the results needed. Then we go on to describe Hallgren's generalisation of the quantum period finding algorithm, which provides the efficient computational solution of Pell's equation in the above sense.

id: quant-ph/0302135
title: Klein Paradox in Bosons
authors: Partha Ghose, Manoj K. Samal, Animesh Datta
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302135
abstract: We show analytically that the {\it Zitterbewegung} and Klein Paradox, such well known aspects of the Dirac Equation are not found in the case of Bosons. We use the Kemmer-Duffin-Harish Chandra formalism with $\beta$ matrices to arrive at our results

id: quant-ph/0302136
title: Risk-Sensitive Optimal Control of Quantum Systems
authors: M.R. James
comments: 16 pages, revtex, submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: Physical Review A, 69, 032108 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302136
abstract: The importance of feedback control is being increasingly appreciated in quantum physics and applications. This paper describes the use of optimal control methods in the design of quantum feedback control systems, and in particular the paper formulates and solves a risk-sensitive optimal control problem. The resulting risk-sensitive optimal control is given in terms of a new unnormalized conditional state, whose dynamics include the cost function used to specify the performance objective. The risk-sensitive conditional dynamic equation describes the evolution of our {\em knowledge} of the quantum system tempered by our {\em purpose} for the controlled quantum system. Robustness properties of risk-sensitive controllers are discussed, and an example is provided.

id: quant-ph/0302137
title: Experimental Test of Quantum Nonlocality in Four-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Entanglement
authors: Zhi Zhao, Tao Yang, Yu-Ao Chen, An-Ning Zhang, Marek Zukowski, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302137
abstract: We report the first experimental violation of local realism in four-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement. In the experiment, the non-statistical GHZ conflicts between quantum mechanics and local realism are confirmed, within the experimental accuracy, by four specific measurements of polarization correlations between four photons. In addition, our experimental results not only demonstrate a violation of Mermin-Ardehali-Belinskii-Klyshko inequality by 76 standard deviations, but also for the first time provide sufficient evidence to confirm the existence of genuine four-particle entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0302138
title: Quantum circuit implementation of the Hamiltonian versions of Grover's algorithm
authors: J. Roland, N. J. Cerf
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062311 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302138
abstract: We analyze three different quantum search algorithms, the traditional Grover's algorithm, its continuous-time analogue by Hamiltonian evolution, and finally the quantum search by local adiabatic evolution. We show that they are closely related algorithms in the sense that they all perform a rotation, at a constant angular velocity, from a uniform superposition of all states to the solution state. This make it possible to implement the last two algorithms by Hamiltonian evolution on a conventional quantum circuit, while keeping the quadratic speedup of Grover's original algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0302139
title: Compressing compound states
authors: Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 5 pages, submitted to special issue of Int. J. Theor. Phys. on "Quantum Composite Systems: theory, experiment and applications"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302139
abstract: Quantum compression can be thought of not only as compression of a signal, but also as a form of cooling. In this view, one is interested not in the signal, but in obtaining purity. In compound systems, one may be interested to cool the system to obtain {\it local purity} by use of local operations and classical communication [Oppenheim et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89,180402 (2002)]. Here we compare it with usual compression and find that it can be represented as compression with suitably restricted means.

id: quant-ph/0302140
title: Information theoretic approach to single-particle and two-particle interference in multi-path interferometers
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, L. C. Kwek, Marek Zukowski, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: RevTex 4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302140
abstract: We propose entropic measures for the strength of single-particle and two-particle interference in interferometric experiments where each particle of a pair traverses a multi-path interferometer. Optimal single-particle interference excludes any two-particle interference, and vice versa. We report an inequality that states the compromises allowed by quantum mechanics in intermediate situations, and identify a class of two-particle states for which the upper bound is reached. Our approach is applicable to symmetric two-partite systems of any finite dimension.

id: quant-ph/0302141
title: C, PT, and CPT invariance of pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: No Fig, 13 pages, E-mail: zahmed@apsara.barc.ernet.in
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302141
abstract: We propose construction of a unique and definite metric ($\eta_+$), time-reversal operator (T) and an inner product such that the pseudo-Hermitian matrix Hamiltonians are C, PT, and CPT invariant and PT(CPT)-norm is indefinite (definite). Here, P and C denote the generalized symmetries : parity and charge-conjugation respectively. The limitations of the other current approaches have been brought out.

id: quant-ph/0302142
title: Polarization squeezing in a four-level system
authors: V. Josse, A. Dantan, A. Bramati, M. Pinard, E. Giacobino
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, submitted to J. Opt. B for Special Issue on Quantum Optics and Quantum Entanglement (IQEC 2002)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5 S513 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302142
abstract: We present a theoretical study of an ensemble of X-like 4-level atoms placed in an optical cavity driven by a linearly polarized field. We show that the self-rotation (SR) process leads to polarization switching (PS). Below the PS threshold, both the mean field mode and the orthogonal vacuum mode are squeezed. We provide a simple analysis of the phenomena responsible for the squeezing and trace the origin of vacuum squeezing not to SR, but to crossed Kerr effect induced by the mean field. Last, we show that this vacuum squeezing can be interpreted as polarization squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0302143
title: On the Correlations Between Quantum Entanglement and q-Information Measures
authors: J. Batle, M. Casas, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: 7 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Physics Letters A 318, 506 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302143
abstract: In the present study we revisit the application of the $q$-information measures $R_q$ of R\'enyi's and $S_q$ of Tsallis' to the discussion of special features of two qubits systems. More specifically, we study the correlations between the $q$-information measures and the entanglement of formation of a general (pure or mixed) state $\rho$ describing a system of two qubits. The analysis uses a Monte Carlo procedure involving the 15-dimensional 2-qubits space of pure and mixed states, under the assumption that these states are uniformly distributed according to the product measure recently introduced by Zyczkowski {\it et al} [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 58} (1998) 883].

id: quant-ph/0302144
title: Entanglement of 2xK quantum systems
authors: Artur Lozinski, Andreas Buchleitner, Karol Zyczkowski, Thomas Wellens
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, to be published in Europhysics Letter
journal: Europhys. Lett. 62, 168 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302144
abstract: We derive an analytical expression for the lower bound of the concurrence of mixed quantum states of composite 2xK systems. In contrast to other, implicitly defined entanglement measures, the numerical evaluation of our bound is straightforward. We explicitly evaluate its tightness for general mixed states of 2x3 systems, and identify a large class of states where our expression gives the exact value of the concurrence.

id: quant-ph/0302145
title: Population trapping in the one-photon mazer
authors: T. Bastin, E. Solano
comments: 16 pages and 1 figure
journal: Optics Communications 217, pp. 239-247 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302145
abstract: We study the population trapping phenomenon for the one-photon mazer. With this intent, the mazer theory is written using the dressed-state coordinate formalism, simplifying the expressions for the atomic populations, the cavity photon statistics, and the reflection and transmission probabilities. Under the population trapping condition, evidence for new properties of the atomic scattering is given. Experimental issues and possible applications are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302146
title: Can quantum imaging be classically simulated?
authors: Milena D'Angelo, Yanhua Shih
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, added reference in the conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302146
abstract: Quantum imaging has been demonstrated since 1995 by using entangled photon pairs. The physics community named these experiments "ghost image", "quantum crypto-FAX", "ghost interference", etc. Recently, Bennink et al. simulated the "ghost" imaging experiment by two co-rotating k-vector correlated lasers. Did the classical simulation simulate the quantum aspect of the "ghost" image? We wish to provide an answer. In fact, the simulation is very similar to a historical model of local realism. The goal of this article is to clarify the different physics behind the two types of experiments and address the fundamental issues of quantum theory that EPR was concerned with since 1935.

id: quant-ph/0302147
title: Nonlocality of Two-Mode Squeezing with Internal Noise
authors: Sonja Daffer, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz, John K. McIver
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012104 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302147
abstract: We examine the quantum states produced through parametric amplification with internal quantum noise. The internal diffusion arises by coupling both modes of light to a reservoir for the duration of the interaction time. The Wigner function for the diffused two-mode squeezed state is calculated. The nonlocality, separability, and purity of these quantum states of light are discussed. In addition, we conclude by studying the nonlocality of two other continuous variable states: the Werner state and the phase-diffused state for two light modes.

id: quant-ph/0302148
title: Zero-Energy Flows and Vortex Patterns in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tsunehiro Kobayashi
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302148
abstract: We show that zero-energy flows appear in many particle systems as same as in single particle cases in 2-dimensions. Vortex patterns constructed from the zero-energy flows can be investigated in terms of the eigenstates in conjugate spaces of Gel'fand triplets. Stable patterns are written by the superposition of zero-energy eigenstates. On the other hand vortex creations and annihilations are described by the insertions of unstable eigenstates with complex-energy eigenvalues into the stable patterns. Some concrete examples are presented in the 2-dimensional parabolic potential barrier case. %, i.e., $-m \gamma^2 (x^2+y^2)/2$. We point out three interesting properties of the zero-energy flows; (i) the absolute economy as for the energy consumption, (ii) the infinite variety of the vortex patterns, and (iii) the absolute stability of the vortex patterns .

id: quant-ph/0302149
title: New features of the thermal Casimir force at small separations
authors: F. Chen, G.L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., v.90, N16, p.160404-(1-4), 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302149
abstract: The difference of the thermal Casimir forces at different temperatures between real metals is shown to increase with a decrease of the separation distance. This opens new opportunities for the demonstration of the thermal dependence of the Casimir force. Both configurations of two parallel plates and a sphere above a plate are considered. Different approaches to the theoretical description of the thermal Casimir force are shown to lead to different measurable predictions.

id: quant-ph/0302150
title: Mutual first order coherence of phase-locked lasers
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. B, vol. 6, issue 1, pp. 46-53, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302150
abstract: We argue that (first-order) coherence is a relative, and not an absolute, property. It is shown how feedforward or feedback can be employed to make two (or more) lasers relatively coherent. We also show that after the relative coherence is established, the two lasers will stay relatively coherent for some time even if the feedforward or feedback loop has been turned off, enabling, e.g., demonstration of unconditional quantum teleportation using lasers.

id: quant-ph/0302151
title: Competitive stochastic noises in coherently driven two-level atoms and quantum interference
authors: P. Adam, A. Karpati, W. Gawlik, J. Janszky
comments: accepted for publication in J. Opt. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302151
abstract: A system of coherently-driven two-level atoms is analyzed in presence of two independent stochastic perturbations: one due to collisions and a second one due to phase fluctuations of the driving field. The behaviour of the quantum interference induced by the collisional noise is considered in detail. The quantum-trajectory method is utilized to reveal the phase correlations between the dressed states involved in the interfering transition channels. It is shown that the quantum interference induced by the collisional noise is remarkably robust against phase noise. This effect is due to the fact that the phase noise, similarly to collisions, stabilizes the phase-difference between the dressed states.

id: quant-ph/0302152
title: Bohmian particle trajectories in relativistic fermionic quantum field theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 12 pages, revised, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.18:123-138,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302152
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory is generalized in such a way that it describes trajectories of relativistic fermionic particles and antiparticles and provides a causal description of the processes of their creation and destruction. A general method of causal interpretation of quantum systems is developed and applied to a causal interpretation of fermionic quantum field theory represented by c-number valued wave functionals.

id: quant-ph/0302153
title: A prime factorization based on quantum dynamics on a spin ensemble (I)
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: Latex2 file with 39 Pages without figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302153
abstract: In this paper it has been described how to use the unitary dynamics of quantum mechanics to solve the prime factorization problem on a spin ensemble without any quantum entanglement. The ensemble quantum computation for the prime factorization is based on the basic principle that both a closed quantum system and its ensemble obey the same unitary dynamics of quantum mechanics if there is not any decoherence effect in both the quantum system and its ensemble. It uses the NMR multiple-quantum measurement techniques to output the quantum computational results that are the inphase multiple-quantum spectra of the spin ensemble. It has been shown that the inphase NMR multiple-quantum spectral intensities used to search for the period of the modular exponential function may reduce merely in a polynomial form as the qubit number of the spin ensemble. The time evolution process of the modular exponential operation on the quantum computer obeys the unitary dynamics of quantum mechanics and hence the computational output is governed by the quantum dynamics. This essential difference between the quantum computer and the classical one could be the key point for the quantum computation outperforming the classical one in the prime factorization on a spin ensemble without any quantum entanglement. It has been shown that the prime factorization based on the quantum dynamics on a spin ensemble is locally efficient at least. This supports the conjecture that the quantum dynamics could play an important role for the origin of power of quantum computation and quantum entanglement could not be a unique resource to achieve power of quantum computation in the prime factorization.

id: quant-ph/0302154
title: Experimental multi-photon-resolving detector using a single avalanche photodiode
authors: Ondrej Haderka, Martin Hamar, Jan Perina, Jr.
comments: LATEX, 11 pages, 5 PostScript figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 28, 149 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302154
abstract: A multichannel detector has been constructed using a single avalanche photodiode and a fiber-loop delay line. Detection probabilities of the channels can be set using a variable-ratio coupler. The performance of the detector is demonstrated on its capability to distinguish multi-photon states (containing two or more photons) from the one-photon state and the vacuum state.

id: quant-ph/0302155
title: Radiation to atom quantum mapping by collective recoil in Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris, Mary Cola, Nicola Piovella, Rodolfo Bonifacio
comments: 
journal: Opt. Comm. vol 227, 349 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302155
abstract: We propose an experiment to realize radiation to atom continuous variable quantum mapping, i.e. to teleport the quantum state of a single mode radiation field onto the collective state of atoms with a given momentum out of a Bose-Einstein condensate. The atoms-radiation entanglement needed for the teleportation protocol is established through the interaction of a single mode with the condensate in presence of a strong far off-resonant pump laser, whereas the coherent atomic displacement is obtained by the same interaction with the radiation in a classical coherent field. In principle, verification of the protocol requires a joint measurement on the recoiling atoms and the condensate, however, a partial verification involving populations, i.e. diagonal matrix elements may be obtained through counting atoms experiments.

id: quant-ph/0302156
title: Unified criterion for security of secret sharing in terms of violation of Bell inequality
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Marek Zukowski
comments: 7 pages, no figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032309 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302156
abstract: In secret sharing protocols, a secret is to be distributed among several partners so that leaving out any number of them, the rest do not have the complete information. Strong multiqubit correlations in the state by which secret sharing is carried out, had been proposed as a criterion for security of such protocols against individual attacks by an eavesdropper. However we show that states with weak multiqubit correlations can also be used for secure secret sharing. That our state has weak multiqubit correlations, is shown from the perspective of violation of local realism, and also by showing that its higher order correlations are described by lower ones. We then present a unified criterion for security of secret sharing in terms of violation of local realism, which works when the secret sharing state is the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state (with strong multiqubit correlations), as well as states of a different class (with weak multiqubit correlations).

id: quant-ph/0302157
title: Development of an approximation scheme for quasi-exactly solvable double-well potentials
authors: R. Atre, P.K. Panigrahi
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, Revtex format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302157
abstract: We make use of a recently developed method to, not only obtain the exactly known eigenstates and eigenvalues of a number of quasi-exactly solvable Hamiltonians, but also construct a convergent approximation scheme for locating those levels, not amenable to analytical treatments. The fact that, the above method yields an expansion of the wave functions in terms of corresponding energies, enables one to treat energy as a variational parameter, which can be effectively used for the identification of the eigenstates. It is particularly useful for the quasi-exactly solvable systems, where the ground state is known and a number of eigenstates are bounded, both below and above. The efficacy of the procedure is illustrated by obtaining, the low-lying excited states of a prototypical double-well potential, where the conventional techniques are not very reliable. Our approach yields the approximate eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, whose accuracy can be improved to any desired level, in a controlled manner. Comparing the present results with those of an independent numerical method, it was found that, the first few terms in our approximate solutions are enough to yield the excited state eigenvalues, accurate upto the third place of the decimal.

id: quant-ph/0302158
title: Hardy's Second Axiom is insufficiently general
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 1 p
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302158
abstract: Hardy (quant-ph/0101012) conjectures in his Axiom 2 that K=K(N), and that in classical probability K=N, while in quantum mechanics K=N^2. We offer an example in classical probability for which K=NV, V the number of independent complete variables; with N=V this classical example satisfies the purported quantal relation K=N^2.

id: quant-ph/0302159
title: Surface plasmon resonance study of the actin-myosin sarcomeric complex and tubulin dimers
authors: Hans A. Schuessler, Alexander A. Kolomenskii, Andreas Mershin, D. V. Nanopoulos
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics *Corresponding author: Andreas Mershin (mershin@physics.tamu.edu)
journal: J. Modern Optics No. 15-17, p2381-2391 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302159
abstract: Biosensors based on the principle of surface plasmon resonance (SPR) detection were used to measure biomolecular interactions in sarcomeres and changes of the dielectric constant of tubulin samples with varying concentration. At SPR, photons of laser light efficiently excite surface plasmons propagating along a metal (gold) film. This resonance manifests itself as a sharp minimum in the reflection of the incident laser light and occurs at a characteristic angle. The dependence of the SPR angle on the dielectric permittivity of the sample medium adjacent to the gold film allows the monitoring of molecular interactions at the surface. We present results of measurements of cross-bridge attachment/detachment within intact mouse heart muscle sarcomeres and measurements on bovine tubulin molecules pertinent to cytoskeletal signal transduction models.

id: quant-ph/0302160
title: A Computational Model for Quantum Measurement
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 24 pages; REVTeX4; published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing 2 (3), 153-199 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302160
abstract: Is the dynamical evolution of physical systems objectively a manifestation of information processing by the universe? We find that an affirmative answer has important consequences for the measurement problem. In particular, we calculate the amount of quantum information processing involved in the evolution of physical systems, assuming a finite degree of fine-graining of Hilbert space. This assumption is shown to imply that there is a finite capacity to sustain the immense entanglement that measurement entails. When this capacity is overwhelmed, the system's unitary evolution becomes computationally unstable and the system suffers an information transition (`collapse'). Classical behaviour arises from the rapid cycles of unitary evolution and information transitions. Thus, the fine-graining of Hilbert space determines the location of the `Heisenberg cut', the mesoscopic threshold separating the microscopic, quantum system from the macroscopic, classical environment. The model can be viewed as a probablistic complement to decoherence, that completes the measurement process by turning decohered improper mixtures of states into proper mixtures. It is shown to provide a natural resolution to the measurement problem and the basis problem.

id: quant-ph/0302161
title: Quantum walks based on an interferometric analogy
authors: Mark Hillery, Janos Bergou, Edgar Feldman
comments: Latex,18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302161
abstract: There are presently two models for quantum walks on graphs. The "coined" walk uses discrete time steps, and contains, besides the particle making the walk, a second quantum system, the coin, that determines the direction in which the particle will move. The continuous walk operates with continuous time. Here a third model for a quantum walk is proposed, which is based on an analogy to optical interferometers. It is a discrete-time model, and the unitary operator that advances the walk one step depends only on the local structure of the graph on which the walk is taking place. No quantum coin is introduced. This type of walk allows us to introduce elements, such as phase shifters, that have no counterpart in classical random walks. Walks on the line and cycle are discussed in some detail, and a probability current for these walks is introduced. The relation to the coined quantum walk is also discussed. The paper concludes by showing how to define these walks for a general graph.

id: quant-ph/0302162
title: Dyon-Oscillator Duality. Hidden Symmetry of the Yang-Coulomb Monopole
authors: Levon Mardoyan
comments: 12 page, submitted in the Proceedings of the Workshop on "Superintegrability in Classical an Quantum Systems" (September 16-22, 2002, Montreal)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302162
abstract: In this article, in the framework of an analytical approach and with help of the generalized version of the Hurwitz transformation the five--dimensional bound system composed of the Yang monople coupled to a particle of the isospin by SU(2) and Coulomb interaction is constructed from the eight-dimensional quantum oscillator. The generalized Runge-Lentz vector and the SO(6) group of the hidden symmetry are established. It is also shown that group of hidden symmetry makes it possible to calculate the spectrum of system by a pure algebraic method.

id: quant-ph/0302163
title: Entanglement Cost of Three-Level Antisymmetric States
authors: Fumitaka Yura
comments: 8pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36, L237 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302163
abstract: We show that the entanglement cost of the three-dimensional antisymmetric states is one ebit.

id: quant-ph/0302164
title: Dynamical Reduction Models
authors: Angelo Bassi, GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 165 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Rept. 379 (2003) 257
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302164
abstract: The report presents an exhaustive review of the recent attempt to overcome the difficulties that standard quantum mechanics meets in accounting for the measurement (or macro-objectification) problem, an attempt based on the consideration of nonlinear and stochastic modifications of the Schroedinger equation. The proposed new dynamics is characterized by the feature of not contradicting any known fact about microsystems and of accounting, on the basis of a unique, universal dynamical principle, for wavepacket reduction and for the classical behavior of macroscopic systems. We recall the motivations for the new approach and we briefly review the other proposals to circumvent the above mentioned difficulties which appeared in the literature. In this way we make clear the conceptual and historical context characterizing the new approach. After having reviewed the mathematical techniques (stochastic differential calculus) which are essential for the rigorous and precise formulation of the new dynamics, we discuss in great detail its implications and we stress its relevant conceptual achievements. The new proposal requires also to work out an appropriate interpretation; a procedure which leads us to a reconsideration of many important issues about the conceptual status of theories based on a genuinely Hilbert space description of natural processes. We also discuss the possibility and the problems one meets in trying to develop an analogous formalism for the relativistic case. Finally we discuss the experimental implications of the new dynamics for various physical processes which should allow, in principle, to test it against quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0302165
title: Three qubit GHZ correlations and generalised Bell experiments
authors: D. Kaszlikowski, M. Zukowski
comments: LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302165
abstract: We present a brief historical introduction to the topic of Bell's theorem. Next we present the surprising features of the three particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. Finally we shall present a method of analysis of the GHZ correlations, which is based on a numerical approach, which is effectively equivalent to the full set of Bell inequalities for correlation functions for the given problem. The aim of our numerical approach is to answer the following question. Do additional possible local settings lead for the GHZ states to more pronounced violation of local realism (measured by the resistance of the quantum nature of the correlations with respect ``white'' noise admixtures)?

id: quant-ph/0302166
title: Negative Group Delay and Superluminal Propagation: An Electronic Circuit Approach
authors: M. Kitano, T. Nakanishi, K. Sugiyama
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures
journal: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics Vol.9 No. 1 (2003) p.43
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302166
abstract: We present a simple electronic circuit which provides negative group delays for band-limited, base-band pulses. It is shown that large time advancement comparable to the pulse width can be achieved with appropriate cascading of negative-delay circuits but eventually the out-of-band gain limits the number of cascading. The relations to superluminality and causality are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302167
title: On the Unnikrishnan approach to the notion of locality
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302167
abstract: Recent proposals by C.S. Unnikrishnan concerning locality and Bell's theorem are critically analysed.

id: quant-ph/0302168
title: Separable states can be used to distribute entanglement
authors: T. S. Cubitt, F. Verstraete, W. Dur, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Slight modifications
journal: PRL 91, 037902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302168
abstract: We show that no entanglement is necessary to distribute entanglement; that is, two distant particles can be entangled by sending a third particle that is never entangled with the other two. Similarly, two particles can become entangled by continuous interaction with a highly mixed mediating particle that never itself becomes entangled. We also consider analogous properties of completely positive maps, in which the composition of two separable maps can create entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0302169
title: Nonlinear Dynamics In Quantum Physics -- Quantum Chaos and Quantum Instantons
authors: H. Kr?ger
comments: inv. talk, 10th Int. Conf. Comput. and Appl. Math., Leuven, Belgium (2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302169
abstract: We discuss the recently proposed quantum action - its interpretation, its motivation, its mathematical properties and its use in physics: quantum mechanical tunneling, quantum instantons and quantum chaos.

id: quant-ph/0302170
title: Preparing remotely two instances of quantum state
authors: Yafei Yu, Jian Feng, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302170
abstract: In this short note, we propose a scheme, in which two instances of an equatorial state (or a polar state) can be remotely prepared in one-shot operation to different receivers with prior entanglement and 1 bit of broadcasting. The trade-off curve between the amount of entanglement and the achievable fidelity is derived.

id: quant-ph/0302171
title: Coherent States: A General Approach
authors: P.K. Panigrahi, T. Shreecharan, J. Banerji, V. Sundaram
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, article style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302171
abstract: A general procedure for constructing coherent states, which are eigenstates of annihilation operators, related to quantum mechanical potential problems, is presented. These coherent states, by construction are not potential specific and rely on the properties of the orthogonal polynomials, for their derivation. The information about a given quantum mechanical potential enters into these states, through the orthogonal polynomials associated with it and also through its ground state wave function. The time evolution of some of these states exhibit fractional revivals, having relevance to the factorization problem.

id: quant-ph/0302172
title: Cloning a real d-dimensional quantum state on the edge of the no-signaling condition
authors: Patrick Navez, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 6 pages RevTex, 1 encapuslated Postscript figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032313 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302172
abstract: We investigate a new class of quantum cloning machines that equally duplicate all real states in a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension. By using the no-signaling condition, namely that cloning cannot make superluminal communication possible, we derive an upper bound on the fidelity of this class of quantum cloning machines. Then, for each dimension d, we construct an optimal symmetric cloner whose fidelity saturates this bound. Similar calculations can also be performed in order to recover the fidelity of the optimal universal cloner in d dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0302173
title: Cloning the entanglement of a pair of quantum bits
authors: Louis-Philippe Lamoureux, Patrick Navez, Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 4 pages Revtex, 2 encapsulated Postscript figures, one added author
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 040301 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302173
abstract: It is shown that any quantum operation that perfectly clones the entanglement of all maximally-entangled qubit pairs cannot preserve separability. This ``entanglement no-cloning'' principle naturally suggests that some approximate cloning of entanglement is nevertheless allowed by quantum mechanics. We investigate a separability-preserving optimal cloning machine that duplicates all maximally-entangled states of two qubits, resulting in 0.285 bits of entanglement per clone, while a local cloning machine only yields 0.060 bits of entanglement per clone.

id: quant-ph/0302174
title: Universal Compression of Ergodic Quantum Sources
authors: Alexei Kaltchenko, En-Hui Yang
comments: 17 pages, minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302174
abstract: For a real number $r>0$, let $F(r)$ be the family of all stationary ergodic quantum sources with von Neumann entropy rates less than $r$. We prove that, for any $r>0$, there exists a blind, source-independent block compression scheme which compresses every source from $F(r)$ to $r n$ qubits per input block length $n$ with arbitrarily high fidelity for all large $n$. As our second result,we show that the stationarity and the ergodicity of a quantum source $\{\rho_m \}_{m=1}^{\infty}$ are preserved by any trace-preserving completely positive linear map of the tensor product form ${\cal E}^{\otimes m}$, where a copy of ${\cal E}$ acts locally on each spin lattice site. We also establish ergodicity criteria for so called classically-correlated quantum sources.

id: quant-ph/0302175
title: A Magnetic Resonance Realization of Decoherence-Free Quantum Computation
authors: Jason E. Ollerenshaw, Daniel A. Lidar, Lewis E. Kay
comments: 5 pages with 3 figures, revtex4, accepted by Physical Review Letters; v2 minor revisions to content
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 217904 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302175
abstract: We report the realization, using nuclear magnetic resonance techniques, of the first quantum computer that reliably executes an algorithm in the presence of strong decoherence. The computer is based on a quantum error avoidance code that protects against a class of multiple-qubit errors. The code stores two decoherence-free logical qubits in four noisy physical qubits. The computer successfully executes Grover's search algorithm in the presence of arbitrarily strong engineered decoherence. A control computer with no decoherence protection consistently fails under the same conditions.

id: quant-ph/0302176
title: The Real Density Matrix
authors: Timothy F. Havel
comments: Contributed to Feynman Festival Proceedings; 25 pages, 8 EPS figures (PACS: 03.65.Ca, 03.67.-a, 33.25.+k, 02.10.Xm); v2 fixes some typos; v3, 4 & 5 a few more plus minor additions
journal: Quantum Information Processing 1:511-38, 2003 (see http://www.kluweronline.com/issn/1570-0755)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302176
abstract: We introduce a nonsymmetric real matrix which contains all the information that the usual Hermitian density matrix does, and which has exactly the same tensor product structure. The properties of this matrix are analyzed in detail in the case of multi-qubit (e.g. spin = 1/2) systems, where the transformation between the real and Hermitian density matrices is given explicitly as an operator sum, and used to convert the essential equations of the density matrix formalism into the real domain.

id: quant-ph/0302177
title: Superradiance from an ultrathin film of three-level V-type atoms: Interplay between splitting, quantum coherence and local-field effects
authors: V. A. Malyshev, F. Carre?o, M. A. Ant¨®n, Oscar G. Calder¨®n, F. Dom¨ªnguez-Adame
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, 313 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302177
abstract: We carry out a theoretical study of the collective spontaneous emission (superradiance) from an ultrathin film comprised of three-level atoms with $V$-configuration of the operating transitions. As the thickness of the system is small compared to the emission wavelength inside the film, the local-field correction to the averaged Maxwell field is relevant. We show that the interplay between the low-frequency quantum coherence within the subspace of the upper doublet states and the local-field correction may drastically affect the branching ratio of the operating transitions. This effect may be used for controlling the emission process by varying the doublet splitting and the amount of low-frequency coherence.

id: quant-ph/0302178
title: Realistic simulations of single-spin nondemolition measurement by magnetic resonance force microscopy
authors: Todd A. Brun, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 33 pages LaTeX, 9 figure files in EPS format. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302178
abstract: A requirement for many quantum computation schemes is the ability to measure single spins. This paper examines one proposed scheme: magnetic resonance force microscopy, including the effects of thermal noise and back-action from monitoring. We derive a simplified equation using the adiabatic approximation, and produce a stochastic pure state unraveling which is useful for numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0302179
title: Teleportation with a uniformly accelerated partner
authors: Paul M. Alsing, G.J. Milburn
comments: 7 pages with 4 figures (in revtex4)
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91 (2003) 180404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302179
abstract: In this work, we give a description of the process of teleportation between Alice in an inertial frame, and Rob who is in uniform acceleration with respect to Alice. The fidelity of the teleportation is reduced due to Unruh radiation in Rob's frame. In so far as teleportation is a measure of entanglement, our results suggest that quantum entanglement is degraded in non inertial frames.

id: quant-ph/0302180
title: Subspace preserving completely positive maps
authors: Johan ?berg
comments: References added
journal: Annals of Physics Vol. 313, p. 326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302180
abstract: A class of quantum channels and completely positive maps (CPMs) are introduced and investigated. These, which we call subspace preserving (SP) CPMs has, in the case of trace preserving CPMs, a simple interpretation as those which preserve probability weights on a given orthogonal sum decomposition of the Hilbert space of a quantum system. Several equivalent characterizations of SP CPMs are proved and an explicit construction of all SP CPMs, is provided. For a subclass of the SP channels a construction in terms of joint unitary evolution with an ancilla system, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0302181
title: Subspace local quantum channels
authors: Johan ?berg
comments: References added
journal: Annals of Physics Vol. 313, p. 326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302181
abstract: A special class of quantum channels, named subspace local (SL), are defined and investigated. The proposed definition of subspace locality of quantum channels is an attempt to answer the question of what kind of restriction should be put on a channel, if it is to act `locally' with respect to two `locations', when these naturally correspond to a separation of the total Hilbert space in an orthogonal sum of subspaces, rather than a tensor product decomposition. It is shown that the set of SL channels decomposes into four disjoint families of channels. Explicit expressions to generate all channels in each family is presented. It is shown that one of these four families, the local subspace preserving (LSP) channels, is precisely the intersection between the set of subspace preserving channels and the SL channels. For a subclass of the LSP channels, a special type of unitary representation using ancilla systems is presented.

id: quant-ph/0302182
title: Gluing of completely positive maps
authors: Johan ?berg
comments: References added, A proposition added
journal: Annals of Physics Vol. 313, p. 326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302182
abstract: Gluings of completely positive maps (CPMs) are defined and investigated. As a brief description of this concept consider a pair of `evolution machines', each with the ability to evolve the internal state of a `particle' inserted into its input. Each of these machines is characterized by a channel describing the operation the internal state has experienced when the particle is returned at the output. Suppose a particle is put in a superposition between the input of the first and the second machine. Here it is shown that the total evolution caused by a pair of such devices is not uniquely determined by the channels of the two machines. Such `global' channels describing the machine pair are examples of gluings of the two single machine channels. Under the limiting assumption that all involved Hilbert spaces are finite-dimensional, an expression which generates all subspace preserving gluings of a given pair of CPMs, is derived. The nature of the non-uniqueness of gluings and its relation to a proposed definition of subspace locality, is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0302183
title: Probability of intrinsic time-arrow from information loss
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 13pp, revtex4, to appear in Proceedings of DICE 2002 (Springer, LNP)
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 633 (2004) 125-135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302183
abstract: Time-arrow $s=+/-$, intrinsic to a concrete physical system, is associated with the direction of information loss $\Delta I$ displayed by the random evolution of the given system. When the information loss tends to zero the intrinsic time-arrow becomes uncertain. We propose the heuristic relationship $1/[1+exp(-s\Delta I)]$ for the probability of the intrinsic time-arrow. The main parts of the present work are trying to confirm this heuristic equation. The probability of intrinsic time arrow is defined by Bayesian inference from the observed random process. From irreversible thermodynamic systems, the proposed heuristic probabilities follow via the Gallavotti-Cohen relations between time-reversed random processes. In order to explore the underlying microscopic mechanism, a trivial microscopic process is analyzed and an obvious discrepancy is identified. It can be resolved by quantum theory. The corresponding trivial quantum process will exactly confirm the proposed heuristic time-arrow probability.

id: quant-ph/0302184
title: The Importance of Boundary Conditions in Quantum Mechanics
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: Contribution to the proceedings of the ICTP conference "Irreversible Quantum Dynamics," Trieste, Italy, July 2002
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 622 (2003) 327-339
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302184
abstract: We discuss the role of boundary conditions in determining the physical content of the solutions of the Schrodinger equation. We study the standing-wave, the ``in,'' the ``out,'' and the purely outgoing boundary conditions. As well, we rephrase Feynman's $+i \epsilon$ prescription as a time-asymmetric, causal boundary condition, and discuss the connection of Feynman's $+i \epsilon$ prescription with the arrow of time of Quantum Electrodynamics. A parallel of this arrow of time with that of Classical Electrodynamics is made. We conclude that in general, the time evolution of a closed quantum system has indeed an arrow of time built into the propagators.

id: quant-ph/0302185
title: Robust creation of entanglement between ions in spatially separate cavities
authors: D.E. Browne, M.B. Plenio, S.F. Huelga
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 067901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302185
abstract: We present a protocol that allows the generation of a maximally entangled state between individual atoms held in spatially separate cavities. Assuming perfect detectors and neglecting spontaneous emission from the atoms, the resulting idealized scheme is deterministic. Under more realistic conditions, when the the atom-cavity interaction departs from the strong coupling regime, and considering imperfect detectors, we show that the scheme is robust against experimental inefficiencies and yields probabilistic entanglement of very high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0302186
title: Direction Cryptography in Quantum Communications
authors: Walter Simmons, Sandip Pakvasa
comments: 14 pages. No figures. Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302186
abstract: We examine a situation in which an information-carrying signal is sent from two sources to a common receiver. The radiation travels through free space in the presence of noise. The information resides in a relationship between the two beams. We inquire into whether itis possible, in principle, that the locations of the transmitters can be concealed from a party who receives the radiation and decodes the information. Direction finding entails making a set of measurements on asignal and constructing an analytic continuation of the time dependent fields from the results. The fact that this process is generally different in quantum mechanics and in classical electrodynamics is the basis in this investigation. We develop a model based upon encoding information into a microscopic, transverse, non-local quantum image (whose dimensions are of the order of a few wavelengths) and using a detector of a type recently proposed by Strekalov et al. The optical system, which uses SPDC (Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion), functions like a Heisenberg microscope: the transverse length, which encodes the signal information, is conjugate to the transverse momentum of the light. In the model, reading the signal information spoils the directional resolution of the detector, while determining the directions to the sources spoils the information content. Each beam, when examined in isolation, is random and indistinguishable from the background noise. We conclude that quantum communications can, in principle, be made secure against direction-finding, even from the party receiving the communication.

id: quant-ph/0302187
title: Positive operator valued measures covariant with respect to an irreducible representation
authors: G. Cassinelli, E. De Vito, A. Toigo
comments: 9 pages, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302187
abstract: Given an irreducible representation of a group G, we show that all the covariant positive operator valued measures based on G/Z, where Z is a central subgroup, are described by trace class, trace one positive operators.

id: quant-ph/0302188
title: Suppression of Rabi oscillations for moving atoms
authors: B. Navarro, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga, G. C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302188
abstract: The well-known laser-induced Rabi oscillations of a two-level atom are shown to be suppressed under certain conditions when the atom is entering a laser-illuminated region. For temporal Rabi oscillations the effect has two regimes: classical-like, at intermediate atomic velocities, and quantum at low velocities, associated respectively with the formation of incoherent or coherent internal states of the atom in the laser region. In the low velocity regime the laser projects the atom onto a pure internal state that can be controlled by detuning. Spatial Rabi oscillations are only suppressed in this low velocity, quantum regime.

id: quant-ph/0302189
title: On susy periodicity defects of the Lame Potentials
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: RevTeX4 file, 3 pages, 3 EPS figures
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 49 S2 (2003) 145-147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302189
abstract: The supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics approach is applied to embed bound states in the energy gaps of periodic potentials. The mechanism to generate periodicity defects in the first Lame potential is analyzed. The related bound states are explicitly derived.

id: quant-ph/0302190
title: Non-Hermitian SUSY Hydrogen-like Hamiltonians with real spectra
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz, Rodrigo Munoz
comments: LaTeX2e file, 13 pages, 6 EPS figures. New references added. The present is a reorganized and simplified version
journal: J.Phys.A36:8497-8506,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302190
abstract: It is shown that the radial part of the Hydrogen Hamiltonian factorizes as the product of two not mutually adjoint first order differential operators plus a complex constant epsilon. The 1-susy approach is used to construct non-hermitian Hamiltonians with hydrogen spectra. Other non-hermitian Hamiltonians are shown to admit an extra `complex energy' at epsilon. New self-adjoint hydrogen-like Hamiltonians are also derived by using a 2-susy transformation with complex conjugate pairs epsilon, (c.c) epsilon.

id: quant-ph/0302191
title: Shape Invariant Potentials for Effective Mass Schrodinger Equation
authors: K. A. Samani, F. Loran
comments: 13 pqages, 6 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302191
abstract: Using the method of shape invariant potentials, a number of exact solutions of one dimensional effective mass Schrodinger equation are obtained. The solutions with equi-spaced spectrum are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0302192
title: Semiclassical evaluation of quantum fidelity
authors: Jiri Vanicek, Eric J. Heller
comments: Added references, small textual improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68, 056208 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302192
abstract: We present a numerically feasible semiclassical (SC) method to evaluate quantum fidelity decay (Loschmidt echo, FD) in a classically chaotic system. It was thought that such evaluation would be intractable, but instead we show that a uniform SC expression not only is tractable but it gives remarkably accurate numerical results for the standard map in both the Fermi-golden-rule and Lyapunov regimes. Because it allows Monte Carlo evaluation, the uniform expression is accurate at times when there are 10^70 semiclassical contributions. Remarkably, it also explicitly contains the ``building blocks'' of analytical theories of recent literature, and thus permits a direct test of the approximations made by other authors in these regimes, rather than an a posteriori comparison with numerical results. We explain in more detail the extended validity of the classical perturbation approximation (CPA) and show that within this approximation, the so-called ``diagonal approximation'' is automatic and does not require ensemble averaging.

id: quant-ph/0302193
title: A random quantum key distribution by using Bell states
authors: Chong Li, He-Shan Song, Ling Zhou, Chun-Feng Wu
comments: Accepted by J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt.,5(2003)155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302193
abstract: We proposed a new scheme for quantum key distribution based on entanglement swapping. By this protocol \QTR{em}{Alice} can securely share a random quantum key with \QTR{em}{Bob}, without transporting any particle.

id: quant-ph/0302194
title: Reconstruction of quantum theory on the basis of the formula of total probability
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of Conference Foundations of Probability and Physics-3, American Institute of Physics, Ser. Conference Proceedings, 750, pp. 187-219, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302194
abstract: The notion of context (complex of physical conditions) is basic in this paper. We show that the main structures of quantum theory (interference of probabilities, Born's rule, complex probabilistic amplitudes, Hilbert state space, representation of observables by operators) are present in a latent form in the classical Kolmogorov probability model. However, this model should be considered as a calculus of contextual probabilities. In our approach it is forbidden to consider abstract context independent probabilities: ``first context and then probability.'' We start with the conventional formula of total probability for contextual (conditional) probabilities and then we rewrite it by eliminating combinations of incompatible contexts from consideration. In this way we obtain interference of probabilities without to appeal to the Hilbert space formalism or wave mechanics. However, we did not just reconstruct the probabilistic formalism of conventional quantum mechanics. Our contextual probabilistic model is essentially more general and, besides the projection to the complex Hilbert space, it has other projections. The most important new prediction is the possibility (at least theoretical) of appearance of hyperbolic interference.

id: quant-ph/0302195
title: New theory of periodical systems by finite interval inverse problem
authors: B. N. Zakhariev, V. M. Chabanov
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures; some improvements in the text are made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302195
abstract: We show that the mechanism of gap formation has a resonance nature. The special real fundamental solutions were discovered which `paradoxically' have knot distribution with a period coinciding with that of potential at all energies of the whole lacuna interval. In terms of these solutions resonance gap appearance gets the most direct explanation: ever repeating hits by the potential result in exponential increase (decrease) of the wave amplitudes in the forbidden zones. The analogous alternating hits from opposite sides are responsible for the wave beatings in allowed zones. The inversion technique gives rise to zone control algorithms - shifting chosen boundaries of spectral bands, changing degree of zone forbiddenness. All this cannot be achieved by the previous Bloch theory.

id: quant-ph/0302196
title: A Modified Wigner's Inequality for Secure Quantum Key Distribution
authors: S. Castelletto, I. P. Degiovanni, M. L. Rastello
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, a revised version will appear on PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302196
abstract: In this report we discuss the insecurity with present implementations of the Ekert protocol for quantum-key distribution based on the Wigner Inequality. We propose a modified version of this inequality which guarantees safe quantum-key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0302197
title: Hilbert--Schmidt volume of the set of mixed quantum states
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Hans-Juergen Sommers
comments: 13 revtex pages, ver 3: minor improvements
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 10115-10130 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302197
abstract: We compute the volume of the convex N^2-1 dimensional set M_N of density matrices of size N with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt measure. The hyper--area of the boundary of this set is also found and its ratio to the volume provides an information about the complex structure of M_N. Similar investigations are also performed for the smaller set of all real density matrices. As an intermediate step we analyze volumes of the unitary and orthogonal groups and of the flag manifolds.

id: quant-ph/0302198
title: Quantum Computers and Decoherence: Exorcising the Demon from the Machine
authors: Daniel A. Lidar, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 15 pages, no figures. Invited contribution to the proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Fluctuations and Noise. Section 8 contains a new result: how to eliminate off-resonant transitions induced by generic "bang-bang" pulses, by using a special type of "bang-bang" pulses
journal: Proceedings of the SPIE, "Noise and Information in Nanoelectronics, Sensors, and Standards", Santa Fe, New Mexico, Vol. 5115, p. 256 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302198
abstract: Decoherence is the main obstacle to the realization of quantum computers. Until recently it was thought that quantum error correcting codes are the only complete solution to the decoherence problem. Here we present an alternative that is based on a combination of a decoherence-free subspace encoding and the application of strong and fast pulses: ``encoded recoupling and decoupling'' (ERD). This alternative has the advantage of lower encoding overhead (as few as two physical qubits per logical qubit suffice), and direct application to a number of promising proposals for the experimental realization of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0302199
title: The singular inverse square potential, limit cycles and self-adjoint extensions
authors: M.Bawin, S.A.Coon
comments: Final corrected version to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A67:042712,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302199
abstract: We study the radial Schroedinger equation for a particle in the field of a singular inverse square attractive potential. This potential is relevant to the fabrication of nanoscale atom optical devices, is said to be the potential describing the dipole-bound anions of polar molecules, and is the effective potential underlying the universal behavior of three-body systems in nuclear physics and atomic physics, including aspects of Bose-Einstein condensates, first described by Efimov. New results in three-body physical systems motivate the present investigation. Using the regularization method of Beane et al., we show that the corresponding ``renormalization group flow'' equation can be solved analytically. We find that it exhibits a limit cycle behavior and has infinitely many branches. We show that a physical meaning for self-adjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian arises naturally in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0302200
title: Square integrable projective representations and square integrable representations modulo a relatively central subgroup (I): basic results
authors: P. Aniello
comments: LaTex file, no figures, 40 pages (minor additions and corrections)
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 3 (2006) 233-267
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302200
abstract: We introduce the notion of square integrable group representation modulo a relatively central subgroup and, establishing a link with square integrable projective representations, we prove a generalization of a classical theorem of Duflo and Moore. As an example, we apply the results obtained to the Weyl-Heisenberg group.

id: quant-ph/0302201
title: Atomic time-of-arrival measurements with a laser of finite beam width
authors: J. A. Damborenea, I. L. Egusquiza, G. C. Hegerfeldt, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302201
abstract: A natural approach to measure the time of arrival of an atom at a spatial region is to illuminate this region with a laser and detect the first fluorescence photons produced by the excitation of the atom and subsequent decay. We investigate the actual physical content of such a measurement in terms of atomic dynamical variables, taking into account the finite width of the laser beam. Different operation regimes are identified, in particular the ones in which the quantum current density may be obtained.

id: quant-ph/0302202
title: Topological phase for entangled two-qubit states
authors: P. Milman, R. Mosseri
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302202
abstract: We present an unambiguous characterization of the rotation group SO(3) biconnectedness topology using two-qubit maximally entangled states. We show how to generate cyclic evolutions of these states, which are in one-to-one correspondence to closed paths in SO(3). The difference between the well known two classes of such paths translates into the gain of a global phase of $\pi$ for one class and no phase change for the other. We propose a simple quantum optics interference experiment to demonstrate this topological phase shift.

id: quant-ph/0302203
title: Entanglement teleportation using three-qubit entanglement
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 10 pages, 2 tables, REVTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302203
abstract: We investigate the teleportation of an entangled two-qubit state using three-qubit GHZ and W channels. The effects of white noise on the average teleportation fidelity and amount of entanglement transmitted are also studied.

id: quant-ph/0302204
title: The Phenomenon of Darboux Displacements
authors: David J. Fernandez C., Bogdan Mielnik, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 11 pages, latex, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A294:168-174,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0302204
abstract: For a class of Schrodinger Hamiltonians the supersymmetry transformations can degenerate to simple coordinate displacements. We examine this phenomenon and show that it distinguishes the Weierstrass potentials including the one-soliton wells and periodic Lame functions. A supersymmetric sense of the addition formula for the Weierstrass functions is elucidated.

id: astro-ph/0302131
title: Parallel Universes
authors: Max Tegmark
comments: 18 pages, 8 figs. A less technical adaptation is scheduled for the May 2003 issue of Scientific American. Version with full-resolution figs at this http URL
journal: In "Science and Ultimate Reality: From Quantum to Cosmos", honoring John Wheeler's 90th birthday. J. D. Barrow, P.C.W. Davies, & C.L. Harper eds. Cambridge University Press (2003)
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0302131
abstract: I survey physics theories involving parallel universes, which form a natural four-level hierarchy of multiverses allowing progressively greater diversity. Level I: A generic prediction of inflation is an infinite ergodic universe, which contains Hubble volumes realizing all initial conditions - including an identical copy of you about 10^{10^29} meters away. Level II: In chaotic inflation, other thermalized regions may have different effective physical constants, dimensionality and particle content. Level III: In unitary quantum mechanics, other branches of the wavefunction add nothing qualitatively new, which is ironic given that this level has historically been the most controversial. Level IV: Other mathematical structures give different fundamental equations of physics. The key question is not whether parallel universes exist (Level I is the uncontroversial cosmological concordance model), but how many levels there are. I discuss how multiverse models can be falsified and argue that there is a severe "measure problem" that must be solved to make testable predictions at levels II-IV.

id: astro-ph/0302372
title: Probing Planck-scale Physics with Extragalactic Sources?
authors: Y. Jack Ng, W. A. Christiansen, H. van Dam
comments: Minor changes; this version will appear in ApJ Letters
journal: Astrophys.J.591:L87-L90,2003
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0302372
abstract: At Planck-scale, spacetime is "foamy" due to quantum fluctuations predicted by quantum gravity. Here we consider the possibility of using spacetime foam-induced phase incoherence of light from distant galaxies and gamma-ray bursters to probe Planck-scale physics. In particular, we examine the cumulative effects of spacetime fluctuations over a huge distance. Our analysis shows that they are far below what is required in this approach to shed light on the foaminess of spacetime.

id: cond-mat/0302018
title: Exchange Interaction Between Three and Four Coupled Quantum Dots: Theory and Applications to Quantum Computing
authors: Ari Mizel, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 16 pages, 16 figures. v3: Added Hund-Mulliken calculations in 3-dots case. A few small corrections. This version submitted to PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 115310 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302018
abstract: Several prominent proposals have suggested that spins of localized electrons could serve as quantum computer qubits. The exchange interaction has been invoked as a means of implementing two qubit gates. In this paper, we analyze the strength and form of the exchange interaction under relevant conditions. We find that, when several spins are engaged in mutual interactions, the quantitative strengths or even qualitative forms of the interactions can change. It is shown that the changes can be dramatic within a Heitler-London model. Hund-Mulliken calculations are also presented, and support the qualititative conclusions from the Heitler-London model. The effects need to be considered in spin-based quantum computer designs, either as a source of gate error to be overcome or a new interaction to be exploited.

id: cond-mat/0302104
title: Discrete non-Abelian gauge theories in two-dimensional lattices and their realizations in Josephson-junction arrays
authors: B. Doucot, L.B. Ioffe, J. Vidal
comments: 20 pages, 12 EPS figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B69:214501,2004
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302104
abstract: We discuss real-space lattice models equivalent to gauge theories with a discrete non-Abelian gauge group. We construct the Hamiltonian formalism which is appropriate for their solid-state physics implementation and outline their basic properties. The unusual physics of these systems is due to local constraints on the degrees of freedom which are variables localized on the links of the lattice. We discuss two types of constraints that become equivalent after a duality transformation for Abelian theories but are qualitatively different for non-Abelian ones. We emphasize highly nontrivial topological properties of the excitations (fluxons and charges) in these non-Abelian discrete lattice gauge theories. We show that an implementation of these models may provide one with the realization of an ideal quantum computer, that is the computer that is protected from the noise and allows a full set of precise manipulations required for quantum computations. We suggest a few designs of the Josephson-junction arrays that provide the experimental implementations of these models and discuss the physical restrictions on the parameters of their junctions.

id: cond-mat/0302238
title: Measuring the decoherence rate in a semiconductor charge qubit
authors: S. D. Barrett, G. J. Milburn
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302238
abstract: We describe a method by which the decoherence time of a solid state qubit may be measured. The qubit is coded in the orbital degree of freedom of a single electron bound to a pair of donor impurities in a semiconductor host. The qubit is manipulated by adiabatically varying an external electric field. We show that, by measuring the total probability of a successful qubit rotation as a function of the control field parameters, the decoherence rate may be determined. We estimate various system parameters, including the decoherence rates due to electromagnetic fluctuations and acoustic phonons. We find that, for reasonable physical parameters, the experiment is possible with existing technology. In particular, the use of adiabatic control fields implies that the experiment can be performed with control electronics with a time resolution of tens of nanoseconds.

id: cond-mat/0302265
title: Steering of a Bosonic Mode with a Double Quantum Dot
authors: T. Brandes, N. Lambert
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 67, 125323 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302265
abstract: We investigate the transport and coherence properties of a double quantum dot coupled to a single damped boson mode. Our numerically results reveal how the properties of the boson distribution can be steered by altering parameters of the electronic system such as the energy difference between the dots. Quadrature amplitude variances and the Wigner function are employed to illustrate how the state of the boson mode can be controlled by a stationary electron current through the dots.

id: cond-mat/0302319
title: Quantum Dissipation due to the Interaction with Chaos
authors: Doron Cohen, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, final improved version, to be published as Phys Rev. E Rapid Communication
journal: Phys.Rev. E69 (2004) 055201
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302319
abstract: We discuss the possibility of having "quantum dissipation" due to the interaction with chaotic degrees of freedom. We define the conditions that should be satisfied in order to have a dissipative effect similar to the one due to an interaction with a (many body) bath. We also compare with the case where the environment is modeled by a random matrix model. In case of interaction with "chaos" we observe a regime where the relaxation process is non-universal, and reflects the underlaying semiclassical dynamics. As an example we consider a two level system (spin) that interacts with a two dimensional anharmonic oscillator.

id: cond-mat/0302395
title: Monte Carlo Simulation of Spin-Polarized Transport
authors: Min Shen, Semion Saikin, Ming-C. Cheng, Vladimir Privman
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Lect. Notes Computer Sci. 2668-II, 881-991 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302395
abstract: Monte Carlo simulations are performed to study the in-plane transport of spin-polarized electrons in III-V semiconductor quantum wells. The density matrix description of the spin polarization is incorporated in the simulation algorithm. The spin-orbit interaction terms generate coherent evolution of the electron spin polarization and also cause dephasing. The spatial motion of the electrons is treated semiclassically. Three different scattering mechanisms--optical phonons, acoustic phonons and ionized impurities--are considered. The electric field is calculated self-consistently from the charge distribution. The Monte Carlo scheme is described, and simulation results are reported for temperatures in the range 77-300 K.

id: cond-mat/0302464
title: The dynamics of quantum phases in a spinor condensate
authors: S. Yi, ?. E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 5 figures, an extended version of cond-mat/0301178
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302464
abstract: We discuss the quantum phases and their diffusion dynamics in a spinor-1 atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. For ferromagnetic interactions, we obtain the exact ground state distribution of the phases associated with the total atom number ($N$), the total magnetization (${\cal M}$), and the alignment (or hypercharge) ($Y$) of the system. The mean field ground state is stable against fluctuations of atom numbers in each of the spin components, and the phases associated with the order parameter for each spin components diffuse while dynamically recover the two broken continuous symmetries [U(1) and SO(2)] when $N$ and ${\cal M}$ are conserved as in current experiments. We discuss the implications to the quantum dynamics due to an external (homogeneous) magnetic field. We also comment on the case of a spinor-1 condensate with anti-ferromagnetic interactions.

id: cond-mat/0302529
title: Feedback cooling of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Asa Hopkins, Kurt Jacobs, Salman Habib, Keith Schwab
comments: 10 pages, RevTex4, 4 color eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 235328 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302529
abstract: Cooled, low-loss nanomechanical resonators offer the prospect of directly observing the quantum dynamics of mesoscopic systems. However, the present state of the art requires cooling down to the milliKelvin regime in order to observe quantum effects. Here we present an active feedback strategy based on continuous observation of the resonator position for the purpose of obtaining these low temperatures. In addition, we apply this to an experimentally realizable configuration, where the position monitoring is carried out by a single-electron transistor. Our estimates indicate that with current technology this technique is likely to bring the required low temperatures within reach.

id: cond-mat/0302572
title: Nonequilibrium stabilization of charge states in double quantum dots
authors: Udo Hartmann, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 161309(R) (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302572
abstract: We analyze the decoherence of charge states in double quantum dots due to cotunneling. The system is treated using the Bloch-Redfield generalized master equation for the Schrieffer-Wolff transformed Hamiltonian. We show that the decoherence, characterized through a relaxation $\tau_{r}$ and a dephasing time $\tau_{\phi}$, can be controlled through the external voltage and that the optimum point, where these times are maximum, is not necessarily in equilibrium. We outline the mechanism of this nonequilibrium-induced enhancement of lifetime and coherence. We discuss the relevance of our results for recent charge qubit experiments.

id: cs/0302012
title: The New AI: General & Sound & Relevant for Physics
authors: Juergen Schmidhuber
comments: 23 pages, updated refs, added Goedel machine overview, corrected computing history timeline. To appear in B. Goertzel and C. Pennachin, eds.: Artificial General Intelligence
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Learning (cs.LG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0302012
abstract: Most traditional artificial intelligence (AI) systems of the past 50 years are either very limited, or based on heuristics, or both. The new millennium, however, has brought substantial progress in the field of theoretically optimal and practically feasible algorithms for prediction, search, inductive inference based on Occam's razor, problem solving, decision making, and reinforcement learning in environments of a very general type. Since inductive inference is at the heart of all inductive sciences, some of the results are relevant not only for AI and computer science but also for physics, provoking nontraditional predictions based on Zuse's thesis of the computer-generated universe.

id: cs/0302025
title: Cryptographic Randomized Response Techniques
authors: Andris Ambainis, Markus Jakobsson, Helger Lipmaa
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0302025
abstract: We develop cryptographically secure techniques to guarantee unconditional privacy for respondents to polls. Our constructions are efficient and practical, and are shown not to allow cheating respondents to affect the ``tally'' by more than their own vote -- which will be given the exact same weight as that of other respondents. We demonstrate solutions to this problem based on both traditional cryptographic techniques and quantum cryptography.

id: gr-qc/0302030
title: The Inflaton and Time in the Matter-Gravity System
authors: A. Tronconi, G.P. Vacca, G. Venturi
comments: 14 pages, latex
journal: Phys.Rev.D67:063517,2003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0302030
abstract: The emergence of time in the matter-gravity system is addressed within the context of the inflationary paradigm. A quantum minisuperspace-homogeneous minimally coupled inflaton system is studied with suitable initial conditions leading to inflation and the system is approximately solved in the limit for large scale factor. Subsequently normal matter (either non homogeneous inflaton modes or lighter matter) is introduced as a perturbation and it is seen that its presence requires the coarse averaging of a gravitational wave function (which oscillates at trans-Planckian frequencies) having suitable initial conditions. Such a wave function, which is common for all types of normal matter, is associated with a ``time density'' in the sense that its modulus is related to the amount of time spent in a given interval (or the rate of flow of time). One is then finally led to an effective evolution equation (Schroedinger Schwinger-Tomonaga) for ``normal'' matter. An analogy with the emergence of a temperature in statistical mechanics is also pointed out.

id: gr-qc/0302096
title: Time Evolution of a Quantum Particle and a Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: Accepted in Gravitation, Relativity, Cosmology
journal: Rel.Grav.Cosmol. 1 (2004) 89-95
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0302096
abstract: Some of the possible consequences of a generalized uncertainty principle (which emerges in the context of string theory and quantum gravity models as a consequence of fluctuations of the background metric) are analyzed considering the case of a quantum particle immersed in a homogeneous gravitational field. It will be shown that the expectation value of the momentum operator depends in a novel way on the mass of the involved particle. This kind of physical characteristics could be, in principle, detected. In other words, one way of confronting against the experiment some of the models around quantum gravity is given by the detection of the dependence upon the mass parameter of the expectation value of the momentum operator.

id: gr-qc/0302117
title: Entropy bounds for charged and rotating systems
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 12 pages, revtex
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 20 (2003) 3403-3412
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0302117
abstract: It was shown in a previous work that, for systems in which the entropy is an extensive function of the energy and volume, the Bekenstein and the holographic entropy bounds predict new results. In this paper, we go further and derive improved upper bounds to the entropy of {\it extensive} charged and rotating systems. Furthermore, it is shown that for charged and rotating systems (including non-extensive ones), the total energy that appear in both the Bekenstein entropy bound (BEB) and the causal entropy bound (CEB) can be replaced by the {\it internal} energy of the system. In addition, we propose possible corrections to the BEB and the CEB.

id: hep-th/0302002
title: Pictures and equations of motion in Lagrangian quantum field theory
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 36 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302002
abstract: The Heisenberg, interaction, and Schr\"odinger pictures of motion are considered in Lagrangian (canonical) quantum field theory. The equations of motion (for state vectors and field operators) are derived for arbitrary Lagrangians which are polynomial or convergent power series in field operators and their first derivatives. The general links between different time-dependent pictures of motion are derived. It is pointed that all of them admit covariant formulation, similar to the one of interaction picture. A new picture, called the momentum picture, is proposed. It is a 4-dimensional analogue of the Schr\"odinger picture of quantum mechanics as in it the state vectors are spacetime-dependent, while the field operators are constant relative to the spacetime. The equations of motion in momentum picture are derived and partially discussed. In particular, the ones for the field operators turn to be of algebraic type. The general idea of covariant pictures of motion is presented. The equations of motion in these pictures are derived.

id: hep-th/0302003
title: Two-dimensional SUSY-pseudo-Hermiticity without separation of variables
authors: F. Cannata, M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 14 pages, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A310 (2003) 344-352
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302003
abstract: We study SUSY-intertwining for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with special emphasis to the two-dimensional generalized Morse potential, which does not allow for separation of variables. The complexified methods of SUSY-separation of variables and two-dimensional shape invariance are used to construct particular solutions - both for complex conjugated energy pairs and for non-paired complex energies.

id: hep-th/0302004
title: Pauli equation and the method of supersymmetric factorization
authors: M. V. Ioffe, A. I. Neelov
comments: 18 pages, Latex
journal: J.Phys.A36:2493,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302004
abstract: We consider different variants of factorization of a 2x2 matrix Schroedinger/Pauli operator in two spatial dimensions. They allow to relate its spectrum to the sum of spectra of two scalar Schroedinger operators, in a manner similar to one-dimensional Darboux transformations. We consider both the case when such factorization is reduced to the ordinary 2-dimensional SUSY QM quasifactorization and a more general case which involves covariant derivatives. The admissible classes of electromagnetic fields are described and some illustrative examples are given.

id: hep-th/0302042
title: Scattering of neutral fermions by a pseudoscalar potential step in two-dimensional space-time
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 8 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A309 (2003) 340-344
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302042
abstract: The problem of scattering of neutral fermions in two-dimensional space-time is approached with a pseudoscalar potential step in the Dirac equation. Some unexpected aspects of the solutions beyond the absence of Klein\'{}s paradox are presented. An apparent paradox concerning the uncertainty principle is solved by introducing the concept of effective Compton wavelength. Added plausibility for the existence of bound-state solutions in a pseudoscalar double-step potential found in a recent Letter is given.

id: hep-th/0302053
title: Casimir densities for a spherical shell in the global monopole background
authors: A. A. Saharian, M. R. Setare
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, discussion of zeros is added, accepted for publication in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 20 (2003) 3765-3782
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302053
abstract: We investigate the vacuum expectation values for the energy-momentum tensor of a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling and obeying the Robin boundary condition on a spherical shell in the $D+1$-dimensional global monopole background. The expressions are derived for the Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field square, the vacuum energy density, radial and azimuthal stress components in both regions inside and outside the shell. A regularization procedure is carried out by making use of the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the series over zeros of cylinder functions. This formula allows us to extract from the vacuum expectation values the parts due to the global monopole gravitational field in the situation without a boundary, and to present the boundary induced parts in terms of exponentially convergent integrals, useful, in particular, for numerical calculations. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum densities is investigated near the sphere surface and at large distances. We show that for small values of the parameter describing the solid angle deficit in global monopole geometry the boundary induced vacuum stresses are strongly anisotropic.

id: hep-th/0302089
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics under Point Singularities
authors: Takashi Uchino, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 36 pages, 3 figures, PlainTex
journal: J.Phys.A36:6821-6846,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302089
abstract: We provide a systematic study on the possibility of supersymmetry (SUSY) for one dimensional quantum mechanical systems consisting of a pair of lines $\R$ or intervals [-l, l] each having a point singularity. We consider the most general singularities and walls (boundaries) at $x = \pm l$ admitted quantum mechanically, using a U(2) family of parameters to specify one singularity and similarly a U(1) family of parameters to specify one wall. With these parameter freedoms, we find that for a certain subfamily the line systems acquire an N = 1 SUSY which can be enhanced to N = 4 if the parameters are further tuned, and that these SUSY are generically broken except for a special case. The interval systems, on the other hand, can accommodate N = 2 or N = 4 SUSY, broken or unbroken, and exhibit a rich variety of (degenerate) spectra. Our SUSY systems include the familiar SUSY systems with the Dirac $\delta(x)$-potential, and hence are extensions of the known SUSY quantum mechanics to those with general point singularities and walls. The self-adjointness of the supercharge in relation to the self-adjointness of the Hamiltonian is also discussed.

id: hep-th/0302167
title: Lagrangian Aspects of Quantum Dynamics on a Noncommutative Space
authors: Branko Dragovich, Zoran Rakic
comments: 15 pages, references added, minor corrections, to be published in the Proceedings of the Workshop "Contemporary Geometry and Related Topics", (Belgrade, 2002)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302167
abstract: In order to evaluate the Feynman path integral in noncommutative quantum mechanics, we consider properties of a Lagrangian related to a quadratic Hamiltonian with noncommutative spatial coordinates. A quantum-mechanical system with noncommutative coordinates is equivalent to another one with commutative coordinates. We found connection between quadratic classical Lagrangians of these two systems. We also shown that there is a subclass of quadratic Lagrangians, which includes harmonic oscillator and particle in a constant field, whose connection between ordinary and noncommutative regimes can be expressed as a linear change of position in terms of a new position and velocity.

id: hep-th/0302169
title: Partial wave Analysis of the First Order Born Amplitude of a Dirac Particle in an Aharonov-Bohm Potential
authors: M.S.Shikakhwa, N.K.Pak
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 105019
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302169
abstract: A partial wave analysis using the basis of the total angular momentum operator J_3 is carried out for the first order Born amplitude of a Dirac particle in an Aharonov-Bohm (AB)potential. It is demonstrated that the s-partial wave contributes to the scattering amplitude in contrast to the case with scalar non-relativistic particles.We suggest that this explains the fact that the first order Born amplitude of a Dirac particle coincides with the exact amplitude expanded to the same order, where it does not for a scalar particle. An interesting algebra involving the Dirac velocity operator and the angular observables is discovered and its consequences are exploited.

id: hep-th/0302197
title: SO(2,1) conformal anomaly: Beyond contact interactions
authors: Gino N. J. Ananos, Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 11 pages. A few typos corrected in the final version
journal: Phys.Rev. D68 (2003) 025006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302197
abstract: The existence of anomalous symmetry-breaking solutions of the SO(2,1) commutator algebra is explicitly extended beyond the case of scale-invariant contact interactions. In particular, the failure of the conservation laws of the dilation and special conformal charges is displayed for the two-dimensional inverse square potential. As a consequence, this anomaly appears to be a generic feature of conformal quantum mechanics and not merely an artifact of contact interactions. Moreover, a renormalization procedure traces the emergence of this conformal anomaly to the ultraviolet sector of the theory, within which lies the apparent singularity.

id: hep-th/0302216
title: Quantum Mechanics on Manifolds Embedded in Euclidean Space
authors: P.C. Schuster, R.L. Jaffe
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX
journal: Annals Phys. 307 (2003) 132-143
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0302216
abstract: Quantum particles confined to surfaces in higher dimensional spaces are acted upon by forces that exist only as a result of the surface geometry and the quantum mechanical nature of the system. The dynamics are particularly rich when confinement is implemented by forces that act normal to the surface. We review this confining potential formalism applied to the confinement of a particle to an arbitrary manifold embedded in a higher dimensional Euclidean space. We devote special attention to the geometrically induced gauge potential that appears in the effective Hamiltonian for motion on the surface. We emphasize that the gauge potential is only present when the space of states describing the degrees of freedom normal to the surface is degenerate. We also distinguish between the effects of the intrinsic and extrinsic geometry on the effective Hamiltonian and provide simple expressions for the induced scalar potential. We discuss examples including the case of a 3-dimensional manifold embedded in a 5-dimensional Euclidean space.

id: math-ph/0302025
title: Topologically non-trivial quantum layers
authors: G. Carron, P. Exner, D. Krejcirik
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45 (2004), 774-784
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302025
abstract: Given a complete non-compact surface embedded in R^3, we consider the Dirichlet Laplacian in a layer of constant width about the surface. Using an intrinsic approach to the layer geometry, we generalise the spectral results of an original paper by Duclos et al. to the situation when the surface does not possess poles. This enables us to consider topologically more complicated layers and state new spectral results. In particular, we are interested in layers built over surfaces with handles or several cylindrically symmetric ends. We also discuss more general regions obtained by compact deformations of certain layers.

id: math-ph/0302037
title: Quantum indistinguishability from general representations of SU(2n)
authors: J.M. Harrison, J.M. Robbins
comments: 32 pages, added example section 4.3
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45 (2004) 1332-1358
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302037
abstract: A treatment of the spin-statistics relation in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics due to Berry and Robbins [Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A (1997) 453, 1771-1790] is generalised within a group-theoretical framework. The construction of Berry and Robbins is re-formulated in terms of certain locally flat vector bundles over n-particle configuration space. It is shown how families of such bundles can be constructed from irreducible representations of the group SU(2n). The construction of Berry and Robbins, which leads to a definite connection between spin and statistics (the physically correct connection), is shown to correspond to the completely symmetric representations. The spin-statistics connection is typically broken for general SU(2n) representations, which may admit, for a given value of spin, both bose and fermi statistics, as well as parastatistics. The determination of the allowed values of the spin and statistics reduces to the decomposition of certain zero-weight representations of a (generalised) Weyl group of SU(2n). A formula for this decomposition is obtained using the Littlewood-Richardson theorem for the decomposition of representations of U(m+n) into representations of U(m)*U(n).

id: math-ph/0302040
title: A unified treatment of exactly solvable and quasi-exactly solvable quantum potentials
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Ganguly
comments: LaTeX2e, 8 pages, To appear in J. Phys. A:Mathematical and general(letters)
journal: J.Phys. A36 (2003) L161-L168
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302040
abstract: By exploiting the hidden algebraic structure of the Schrodinger Hamiltonian, namely the sl(2), we propose a unified approach of generating both exactly solvable and quasi-exactly solvable quantum potentials. We obtain, in this way, two new classes of quasi-exactly solvable systems one of which is of periodic type while the other hyperbolic.

id: math-ph/0302050
title: Pseudo-Unitary Operators and Pseudo-Unitary Quantum Dynamics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Revised and expanded version, includes an application to symplectic transformations and groups, accepted for publication in J. Math. Phys
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 932-946
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302050
abstract: We consider pseudo-unitary quantum systems and discuss various properties of pseudo-unitary operators. In particular we prove a characterization theorem for block-diagonalizable pseudo-unitary operators with finite-dimensional diagonal blocks. Furthermore, we show that every pseudo-unitary matrix is the exponential of $i=\sqrt{-1}$ times a pseudo-Hermitian matrix, and determine the structure of the Lie groups consisting of pseudo-unitary matrices. In particular, we present a thorough treatment of $2\times 2$ pseudo-unitary matrices and discuss an example of a quantum system with a $2\times 2$ pseudo-unitary dynamical group. As other applications of our general results we give a proof of the spectral theorem for symplectic transformations of classical mechanics, demonstrate the coincidence of the symplectic group $Sp(2n)$ with the real subgroup of a matrix group that is isomorphic to the pseudo-unitary group U(n,n), and elaborate on an approach to second quantization that makes use of the underlying pseudo-unitary dynamical groups.

id: math-ph/0302060
title: Product formula related to quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: P. Exner, T. Ichinose
comments: LaTeX 2e, 24 pages, with substantial modifications, to appear in Ann. H. Poincare
journal: Ann. H. Poincare 6 (2005), 195-215
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302060
abstract: We prove a product formula which involves the unitary group generated by a semibounded self-adjoint operator and an orthogonal projection $P$ on a separable Hilbert space $\HH$, with the convergence in $L^2_\mathrm{loc}(\mathbb{R};\HH)$. It gives a partial answer to the question about existence of the limit which describes quantum Zeno dynamics in the subspace \hbox{$\mathrm{Ran} P$}. The convergence in $\HH$ is demonstrated in the case of a finite-dimensional $P$. The main result is illustrated in the example where the projection corresponds to a domain in $\mathbb{R}^d$ and the unitary group is the free Schr\"odinger evolution.

id: math-ph/0302065
title: From quantum to quantum via decoherence
authors: Ph. Blanchard, P. Lugiewicz, R. Olkiewicz
comments: 14 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0302065
abstract: Various physical effects resulting from decoherence are discussed in the algebraic framework. In particular, it is shown that the environment may induce not only classical properties like superselection rules, pointer states or even classical behavior of the quantum system, but, what is more, it also allows the transition from statistical description of infinite quantum systems to quantum mechanics of systems with a finite number of degrees of freedom. It is shown that such transition holds for the quantum spin system in the thermodynamic limit interacting with the phonon field.

id: nlin/0302023
title: Time independent description of rapidly oscillating potentials
authors: Saar Rahav, Ido Gilary, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., v91, 110404 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0302023
abstract: The classical and quantum dynamics in a high frequency field are found to be described by an effective time independent Hamiltonian. It is calculated in a systematic expansion in the inverse of the frequency ($\omega$) to order $\omega^{-4}$. The work is an extension of the classical result for the Kapitza pendulum, which was calculated in the past to order $\omega^{-2}$. The analysis makes use of an implementation of the method of separation of time scales and of a quantum gauge transformation in the framework of Floquet theory. The effective time independent Hamiltonian enables one to explore the dynamics in presence of rapidly oscillating fields, in the framework of theories that were developed for systems with time independent Hamiltonians. The results are relevant, in particular, for exploration of the dynamics of cold atoms.

id: nucl-th/0302020
title: Modified two-potential approach to tunneling problems
authors: S.A. Gurvitz, P.B. Semmes, W. Nazarewicz, T. Vertse
comments: 7 two-column pages, 3 figures, extra-explanation added, Phys. Rev. A, in press
journal: Phys.Rev.A69:042705,2004
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0302020
abstract: One-body quantum tunneling to continuum is treated via the two-potential approach, dividing the tunneling potential into external and internal parts. We show that corrections to this approach can be minimized by taking the separation radius inside the interval determined by simple expressions. The resulting two-potential approach reproduces the resonance energy and its width, both for narrow and wide resonances. We also demonstrate that, without losing its accuracy, the two-potential approach can be modified to a form resembling the R-matrix theory, yet without any uncertainties of the latter related to the choice of the matching radius.

id: nucl-th/0302053
title: Intensity Interferometry for a Chaotic Source with a Collective Flow and Multiple Scattering
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 24 pages, in Latex
journal: J.Phys.G29:2151-2168,2003
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0302053
abstract: We study the effects of a collective flow and multiple scattering on two-particle correlation measurements in Hanbury-Brown-Twiss intensity interferometry. We find that under a collective flow the effective source distribution in a two-particle correlation measurement depends on the initial source distribution. In addition, it depends on a collective flow phase function which consists of terms that tend to cancel each other. As the detected particles traverse from the source point to the freeze-out point, they are subject to multiple scattering with medium particles. We examine the effects of multiple scattering on HBT correlations. By using the Glauber theory of multiple scattering at high energies and the optical model at intermediate energies, we find that multiple scattering leads to an absorption and an effective density distribution that depends on the initial source distribution.

id: physics/0302005
title: Quantum Zeno Features of Bistable Perception
authors: H. Atmanspacher, Th. Filk, H. Romer
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Biological Cybernetics 90 (2004) 33-40
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0302005
abstract: A generalized quantum theoretical framework, not restricted to the validity domain of standard quantum physics, is used to model the dynamics of the bistable perception of ambiguous visual stimuli. The central idea is to treat the perception process in terms of the evolution of an unstable two-state quantum system, yielding a quantum Zeno type of effect. A quantitative relation between the involved time scales is theoretically derived. This relation is found to be satisfied by empirically obtained cognitive time scales relevant for bistable perception.

id: physics/0302023
title: Anamalous Frequency Shift in Photoassociation of a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Matt Mackie
comments: v2: 3 pages; more detailed derivation of, defined dominant regime of, and estimated magnitude of anamalous blueshift
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 173004 (2003)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0302023
abstract: We theoretically investigate the effect of anomalous quantum correlations on the light-induced frequency shift in the photoassociation spectrum of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Anomalous quantum correlations arise because, although formed from a pair of zero-momentum condensate atoms, a condensate molecule need not dissociate back to the BEC, but may just as well form a noncondensate atom pair with equal and opposite momentum, i.e., due to rogue photodissociation. The uncorrelated frequency shift of the photoassociation spectrum is to the red and linearly dependent on the laser intensity. In contrast, anomalous correlations due to rogue dissociation lead to a blueshifted photoassociation spectrum. For sufficiently low light intensities, the rogue blueshift is dominant and proportional to the squareroot of intensity.

id: physics/0302089
title: Mona Lisa - ineffable smile of quantum mechanics
authors: Slobodan Prvanovic
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); History and Overview (math.HO); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0302089
abstract: The portrait of Mona Lisa is scrutinized with reference to quantum mechanics. The elements of different expressions are firstly recognized on her face. The contradictory details are then classified in two pictures that, undoubtedly representing distinct moods, confirm dichotomous character of the original. Consecutive discussion has lead to conclusion that the mysterious state Mona Lisa is in actually is coherent mixture - superposition, of cheerfulness and sadness.

id: cond-mat/0302032
title: On the objective origin of the phase transitions and metastability in many-particle systems
authors: A.G. Godizov, A.A. Godizov
comments: 16 pages + Appendix has been added; minor corrections in the main text
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 28 (2014) 1450163
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0302032
abstract: Equilibrium statistical mechanics is intended to link the microscopic dynamics of particles to the thermodynamic laws for macroscopic quantities. However, the modern statistical theory is faced with significant difficulties, as applied to description of the macroscopic properties of real condensed media within wide thermodynamic ranges, including the vicinities of the phase transition points. A particular problem is the absence of metastable states in the Gibbs statistical mechanics of the systems composed of finite number of particles. Nevertheless, accordance between equilibrium statistical mechanics and thermodynamics of condensed media is achievable if to take account of the mutual correlation (the feedback) between the microscopic properties of molecules and the macrostate of the corresponding medium. This can be done via usage of the "enhanced" Hamilton operator of the considered many-particle system, which contains some temperature-dependent term(s), and the following introduction of the generalized equilibrium distribution over microstates. For illustration of the reasonableness of the proposed approach (and of its practical availability in the applications for the computation of the macroscopic characteristics of condensed media), a cell model of melting/crystallization and metastable supercooled liquid for a water-like medium is presented.

