id: quant-ph/0303041
title: Quantum Search of Spatial Regions
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andris Ambainis
comments: 27 pages. New revisions, for example to the disjointness protocol. To appear in Theory of Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0303041
abstract: Can Grover's algorithm speed up search of a physical region - for example a 2-D grid of size sqrt(n) by sqrt(n)? The problem is that sqrt(n) time seems to be needed for each query, just to move amplitude across the grid. Here we show that this problem can be surmounted, refuting a claim to the contrary by Benioff. In particular, we show how to search a d-dimensional hypercube in time O(sqrt n) for d at least 3, or O((sqrt n)(log n)^(3/2)) for d=2. More generally, we introduce a model of quantum query complexity on graphs, motivated by fundamental physical limits on information storage, particularly the holographic principle from black hole thermodynamics. Our results in this model include almost-tight upper and lower bounds for many search tasks; a generalized algorithm that works for any graph with good expansion properties, not just hypercubes; and relationships among several notions of `locality' for unitary matrices acting on graphs. As an application of our results, we give an O(sqrt(n))-qubit communication protocol for the disjointness problem, which improves an upper bound of Hoyer and de Wolf and matches a lower bound of Razborov.

id: quant-ph/0303081
title: Quantum random walks - an introductory overview
authors: Julia Kempe
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures, to appear in Contemporary Physics
journal: Contemporary Physics, Vol. 44 (4), p.307-327, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0303081
abstract: This article aims to provide an introductory survey on quantum random walks. Starting from a physical effect to illustrate the main ideas we will introduce quantum random walks, review some of their properties and outline their striking differences to classical walks. We will touch upon both physical effects and computer science applications, introducing some of the main concepts and language of present day quantum information science in this context. We will mention recent developments in this new area and outline some open questions.

id: quant-ph/0303097
title: Reversible simulation of bipartite product Hamiltonians
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie W. Leung, Guifre Vidal
comments: 10 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory Vol. 50, No. 6, 1189-1197 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0303097
abstract: Consider two quantum systems A and B interacting according to a product Hamiltonian H = H_A x H_B. We show that any two such Hamiltonians can be used to simulate each other reversibly (i.e., without efficiency losses) with the help of local unitary operations and local ancillas. Accordingly, all non-local features of a product Hamiltonian -- including the rate at which it can be used to produce entanglement, transmit classical or quantum information, or simulate other Hamiltonians -- depend only upon a single parameter. We identify this parameter and use it to obtain an explicit expression for the entanglement capacity of all product Hamiltonians. Finally, we show how the notion of simulation leads to a natural formulation of measures of the strength of a nonlocal Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0303105
title: Three routes to the exact asymptotics for the one-dimensional quantum walk
authors: Hilary A. Carteret, Mourad E. H. Ismail, Bruce Richmond
comments: 25 pages, AMS preprint format, 4 figures as encapsulated postscript. Replaced because there were sign errors in equations (80) & (85) and Lemma 2 of the journal version (v3)
journal: J. Phys. A., vol. 36, no. 33, pp 8775-8795 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0303105
abstract: We demonstrate an alternative method for calculating the asymptotic behaviour of the discrete one-coin quantum walk on the infinite line, via the Jacobi polynomials that arise in the path integral representation. This is significantly easier to use than the Darboux method. It also provides a single integral representation for the wavefunction that works over the full range of positions, $n,$ including throughout the transitional range where the behaviour changes from oscillatory to exponential. Previous analyses of this system have run into difficulties in the transitional range, because the approximations on which they were based break down here. The fact that there are two different kinds of approach to this problem (Path Integral vs. Schr\"{o}dinger wave mechanics) is ultimately a manifestation of the equivalence between the path-integral formulation of quantum mechanics and the original formulation developed in the 1920s. We discuss how and why our approach is related to the two methods that have already been used to analyse these systems.

