id: quant-ph/0304001
title: Pseudopotential model of ultracold atomic collisions in quasi-one- and two-dimensional traps
authors: E. L. Bolda, E. Tiesinga, P. S. Julienne
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304001
abstract: We describe a model for s-wave collisions between ground state atoms in optical lattices, considering especially the limits of quasi-one and two dimensional axisymmetric harmonic confinement. When the atomic interactions are modelled by an s-wave Fermi-pseudopotential, the relative motion energy eigenvalues can easily be obtained. The results show that except for a bound state, the trap eigenvalues are consistent with one- and two- dimensional scattering with renormalized scattering amplitudes. For absolute scattering lengths large compared with the tightest trap width, our model predicts a novel bound state of low energy and nearly-isotropic wavefunction extending on the order of the tightest trap width.

id: quant-ph/0304002
title: Optimal conclusive teleportation of quantum states
authors: L. Roa, A. Delgado, I. Fuentes-Guridi
comments: 8 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022310 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304002
abstract: Quantum teleportation of qudits is revisited. In particular, we analyze the case where the quantum channel corresponds to a non-maximally entangled state and show that the success of the protocol is directly related to the problem of distinguishing non-orthogonal quantum states. The teleportation channel can be seen as a coherent superposition of two channels, one of them being a maximally entangled state thus, leading to perfect teleportation and the other, corresponding to a non-maximally entangled state living in a subspace of the d-dimensional Hilbert space. The second channel leads to a teleported state with reduced fidelity. We calculate the average fidelity of the process and show its optimality.

id: quant-ph/0304003
title: An atom mirror etched from a hard drive
authors: Benjamin Lev, Yves Lassailly, Chungsok Lee, Axel Scherer, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Published in Appl. Phys. Lett., 83, 395 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304003
abstract: We describe the fabrication of an atom mirror by etching of a common hard drive, and we report the observation of specular retroreflection of 11 uk cesium atoms using this mirror. The atoms were trapped and cooled above the hard drive using the mirror magneto-optical trap technique, and upon release, two full bounces were detected. The hard drive atom mirror will be a useful tool for both atom optics and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0304004
title: Comment on "Quantitative wave-particle duality in multibeam interferometers"
authors: G. Bimonte, R. Musto
comments: 4 pages, 1 encapsulated figure. In press on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A67 (2003) 066101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304004
abstract: In a recent paper [Phys. Rev. {\bf A64}, 042113 (2001)] S. D\"urr proposed an interesting multibeam generalization of the quantitative formulation of interferometric wave-particle duality, discovered by Englert for two-beam interferometers. The proposed generalization is an inequality that relates a generalized measure of the fringe visibility, to certain measures of the maximum amount of which-way knowledge that can be stored in a which-way detector. We construct an explicit example where, with three beams in a pure state, the scheme proposed by D\"{u}rr leads to the possibility of an ideal which-way detector, that can achieve a better path-discrimination, at the same time as a better fringe visibility. In our opinion, this seems to be in contrast with the intuitive idea of complementarity, as it is implemented in the two-beams case, where an increase in path discrimination always implies a decrease of fringe visibility, if the beams and the detector are in pure states.

id: quant-ph/0304005
title: Conditional generation of arbitrary multimode entangled states of light with linear optics
authors: J. Fiurasek, S. Massar, N.J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042325 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304005
abstract: We propose a universal scheme for the probabilistic generation of an arbitrary multimode entangled state of light with finite expansion in Fock basis. The suggested setup involves passive linear optics, single photon sources, strong coherent laser beams, and photodetectors with single-photon resolution. The efficiency of this setup may be greatly enhanced if, in addition, a quantum memory is available.

id: quant-ph/0304006
title: Exact remote state preparation for multiparties
authors: P. Agrawal, P. Parashar, A. K. Pati
comments: Latex file, 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304006
abstract: We discuss the exact remote state preparation protocol of special ensembles of qubits at multiple locations. We also present generalization of this protocol for higher dimensional Hilbert space systems for multiparties. Using the `dark states', the analogue of singlet EPR pair for multiparties in higher dimension as quantum channel, we show several instances of remote state preparation protocol using multiparticle measurement and classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0304007
title: Structure of states which satisfy strong subadditivity of quantum entropy with equality
authors: Patrick Hayden, Richard Jozsa, Denes Petz, Andreas Winter
comments: 9 pages, revtex4. v2 corrects/adds some references and has a bit more discussion
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., 246(2):359-374, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304007
abstract: We give an explicit characterisation of the quantum states which saturate the strong subadditivity inequality for the von Neumann entropy. By combining a result of Petz characterising the equality case for the monotonicity of relative entropy with a recent theorem by Koashi and Imoto, we show that such states will have the form of a so-called short quantum Markov chain, which in turn implies that two of the systems are independent conditioned on the third, in a physically meaningful sense. This characterisation simultaneously generalises known necessary and sufficient entropic conditions for quantum error correction as well as the conditions for the achievability of the Holevo bound on accessible information.

id: quant-ph/0304008
title: Measurement induced entanglement and quantum computation with atoms in optical cavities
authors: Anders S. Sorensen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages including 2 figures. v2+3: minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304008
abstract: We propose a method to prepare entangled states and implement quantum computation with atoms in optical cavities. The internal state of the atoms are entangled by a measurement of the phase of light transmitted through the cavity. By repeated measurements an entangled state is created with certainty, and this entanglement can be used to implement gates on qubits which are stored in different internal degrees of freedom of the atoms. This method, based on measurement induced dynamics, has a higher fidelity than schemes making use of controlled unitary dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0304009
title: Genralized Robustness of Entanglement
authors: Michael Steiner
comments: Final version. Editorial changes and references added to independent work
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 054305 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304009
abstract: The robustness of entanglement results of Vidal and Tarrach considered the problem whereby an entangled state is mixed with a separable state so that the overall state becomes non-entangled. In general it is known that there are also cases when entangled states are mixed with other entangled states and where the sum is separable. In this paper, we treat the more general case where entangled states can be mixed with any states so that the resulting mixture is unentangled. It is found that entangled pure states for this generalized case have the same robustness as the restricted case of Vidal and Tarrach.

id: quant-ph/0304010
title: Group Theory and Quasiprobability Integrals of Wigner Functions
authors: A.J. Bracken, D. Ellinas, J.G. Wood
comments: 11 pages, latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304010
abstract: The integral of the Wigner function of a quantum mechanical system over a region or its boundary in the classical phase plane, is called a quasiprobability integral. Unlike a true probability integral, its value may lie outside the interval [0,1]. It is characterized by a corresponding selfadjoint operator, to be called a region or contour operator as appropriate, which is determined by the characteristic function of that region or contour. The spectral problem is studied for commuting families of region and contour operators associated with concentric disks and circles of given radius a. Their respective eigenvalues are determined as functions of a, in terms of the Gauss-Laguerre polynomials. These polynomials provide a basis of vectors in Hilbert space carrying the positive discrete series representations of the algebra su(1,1)or so(2,1). The explicit relation between the spectra of operators associated with disks and circles with proportional radii, is given in terms of the dicrete variable Meixner polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0304011
title: Geometrical Conditions for CPTP Maps and their Application to a Quantum Repeater and a State-dependent Quantum Cloning Machine
authors: A. Carlini, M. Sasaki
comments: Latex, 13 Pags., 13 Figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003), 042327
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304011
abstract: We address the problem of finding optimal CPTP (completely positive, trace preserving) maps between a set of binary pure states and another set of binary generic mixed state in a two dimensional space. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of such CPTP maps can be discussed within a simple geometrical picture. We exploit this analysis to show the existence of an optimal quantum repeater which is superior to the known repeating strategies for a set of coherent states sent through a lossy quantum channel. We also show that the geometrical formulation of the CPTP mapping conditions can be a simpler method to derive a state-dependent quantum (anti) cloning machine than the study so far based on the explicit solution of several constraints imposed by unitarity in an extended Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0304012
title: Quantum initial value representations using approximate Bohmian trajectories
authors: Eric R. Bittner
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304012
abstract: Quantum trajectories, originating from the de Broglie-Bohm (dBB) hydrodynamic description of quantum mechanics, are used to construct time-correlation functions in an initial value representation (IVR). The formulation is fully quantum mechanical and the resulting equations for the correlation functions are similar in form to their semi-classical analogs but do not require the computation of the stability or monodromy matrix or conjugate points. We then move to a {\em local} trajectory description by evolving the cumulants of the wave function along each individual path. The resulting equations of motion are an infinite hierarchy, which we truncate at a given order. We show that time-correlation functions computed using these approximate quantum trajectories can be used to accurately compute the eigenvalue spectrum for various potential systems.

id: quant-ph/0304013
title: A geometric proof of the Kochen-Specker no-go theorem
authors: Richard D. Gill, Michael S. Keane
comments: This paper appeared some years ago, before the author was aware of quant-ph. It is relevant to recent developments concerning Kochen-Specker theorems
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 29 (1996), L289--L291
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304013
abstract: We give a short geometric proof of the Kochen-Specker no-go theorem for non-contextual hidden variables models. Note added to this version: I understand from Jan-Aake Larsson that the construction we give here actually contains the original Kochen-Specker construction as well as many others (Bell, Conway and Kochen, Schuette, perhaps also Peres).

id: quant-ph/0304014
title: On the reality of EPR paradox
authors: Janis Ruza
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an incomplete argumentation.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304014
abstract: We argue that the so-called entangled states in quantum theory are not something exceptional, deserving a special attention in our efforts to understand conceptual foundations of quantum world. They appear by constructing the basis states of a compound system via the basis states of entering subsystems and describe it as a wholeness. While a system is considered as a wholeness, the individual members, forming the entangled state, have no physical meaning. In consequence, there is no physical ground for Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) correlations arising in a process of decaying the system, being in the entangled state, into its constituent parts. The same regards to Bell's introduced non-locality of quantum world.

id: quant-ph/0304015
title: On the suppression of the diffusion and the quantum nature of a cavity mode. Optical bistability; forces and friction in driven cavities
authors: K. Murr
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: J.Phys.B: At. Mol.Opt.Phys 36 (2003) 2515-2537
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304015
abstract: A new analytical method is presented here, offering a physical view of driven cavities where the external field cannot be neglected. We introduce a new dimensionless complex parameter, intrinsically linked to the cooperativity parameter of optical bistability, and analogous to the scaled Rabbi frequency for driven systems where the field is classical. Classes of steady states are iteratively constructed and expressions for the diffusion and friction coefficients at lowest order also derived. They have in most cases the same mathematical form as their free-space analog. The method offers a semiclassical explanation for two recent experiments of one atom trapping in a high Q cavity where the excited state is significantly saturated. Our results refute both claims of atom trapping by a quantized cavity mode, single or not. Finally, it is argued that the parameter newly constructed, as well as the groundwork of this method, are at least companions of the cooperativity parameter and its mother theory. In particular, we lay the stress on the apparently more fundamental role of our structure parameter.

id: quant-ph/0304016
title: Quantum Computing and Error Correction
authors: A. M. Steane
comments: 12 pages, a very simple tutorial introduction to error correction, with emphasis on avoiding misconceptions regarding the treatment of noise
journal: A. Steane in "Decoherence and its implications in quantum computation and information transfer", Gonis and Turchi, eds, pp.284-298 (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304016
abstract: The main ideas of quantum error correction are introduced. These are encoding, extraction of syndromes, error operators, and code construction. It is shown that general noise and relaxation of a set of 2-state quantum systems can always be understood as a combination of Pauli operators acting on the system. Each quantum error correcting code allows a subset of these errors to be corrected. In many situations the noise is such that the remaining uncorrectable errors are unlikely to arise, and hence quantum error correction has a high probability of success. In order to achieve the best noise tolerance in the presence of noise and imprecision throughout the computer, a hierarchical construction of a quantum computer is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0304017
title: Broken Promises and Quantum Algorithms
authors: Adam Brazier, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with version to appear in QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304017
abstract: In the black-box model, problems constrained by a `promise' are the only ones that admit a quantum exponential speedup over the best classical algorithm in terms of query complexity. The most prominent example of this is the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. More recently, Wim van Dam put forward an algorithm for unstructured problems (i.e., those without a promise). We consider the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm with a less restrictive (or `broken') promise and study the transition to an unstructured problem. We compare this to the success of van Dam's algorithm. These are both compared with a standard classical sampling algorithm. The Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm remains good as the problem initially becomes less structured, but the van Dam algorithm can be adapted so as to become superior to the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm as the promise is weakened.

id: quant-ph/0304018
title: Realistic Decoherence Free Subspaces
authors: K.M. Fonseca Romero, S.G. Mokarzel, M.O. Terra Cunha, M.C. Nemes
comments: 9 pages, no figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A. This is a completelly rewritten and expanded version of quant-ph/0202031
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304018
abstract: Decoherence free subspaces (DFS) is a theoretical tool towards experimental implementation of quantum information storage and processing. However, they represent an experimental challenge, since conditions for their existence are very stringent. This work explores the situation in which a system of $N$ oscillators coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators is close to satisfy the conditions for the existence of DFS. We show, in the Born-Markov limit and for small deviations from separability and degeneracy conditions, that there are {\emph{weak decoherence subspaces}} which resemble the original notion of DFS.

id: quant-ph/0304019
title: Optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera Decomposition for some Biparatite Systems
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas, M.A.Jafarizadeh
comments: 31 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304019
abstract: It is shown that for a given bipartite density matrix and by choosing a suitable separable set (instead of product set) on the separable-entangled boundary, optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera (L-S) decomposition can be obtained via optimization for a generic entangled density matrix. Based on this, We obtain optimal L-S decomposition for some bipartite systems such as $2\otimes 2$ and $2\otimes 3$ Bell decomposable states, generic two qubit state in Wootters basis, iso-concurrence decomposable states, states obtained from BD states via one parameter and three parameters local operations and classical communications (LOCC), $d\otimes d$ Werner and isotropic states, and a one parameter $3\otimes 3$ state. We also obtain the optimal decomposition for multi partite isotropic state. It is shown that in all $2\otimes 2$ systems considered here the average concurrence of the decomposition is equal to the concurrence. We also show that for some $2\otimes 3$ Bell decomposable states the average concurrence of the decomposition is equal to the lower bound of the concurrence of state presented recently in [Buchleitner et al, quant-ph/0302144], so an exact expression for concurrence of these states is obtained. It is also shown that for $d\otimes d$ isotropic state where decomposition leads to a separable and an entangled pure state, the average I-concurrence of the decomposition is equal to the I-concurrence of the state. Keywords: Quantum entanglement, Optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition, Concurrence, Bell decomposable states, LOCC} PACS Index: 03.65.Ud

id: quant-ph/0304020
title: Entanglement assisted capacity of the broadband lossy channel
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Peter W. Shor
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 047901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304020
abstract: We calculate the entanglement assisted capacity of a multimode bosonic channel with loss. As long as the efficiency of the channel is above 50%, the superdense coding effect can be used to transmit more bits than those that can be stored in the message sent down the channel. Bounds for the other capacities of the multimode channel are also provided.

id: quant-ph/0304021
title: Size-dependent decoherence of excitonic states in semiconductor microcrystallites
authors: Yu-xi Liu, A. Miranowicz, S. K. Ozdemir, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, two figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 034303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304021
abstract: The size-dependent decoherence of the exciton states resulting from the spontaneous emission is investigated in a semiconductor spherical microcrystallite under condition $a_{B}\ll R_{0}\leq\lambda$. In general, the larger size of the microcrystallite corresponds to the shorter coherence time. If the initial state is a superposition of two different excitonic coherent states, the coherence time depends on both the overlap of two excitonic coherent states and the size of the microcrystallite. When the system with fixed size is initially in the even or odd coherent states, the larger average number of the excitons corresponds to the faster decoherence. When the average number of the excitons is given, the bigger size of the microcrystallite corresponds to the faster decoherence. The decoherence of the exciton states for the materials GaAs and CdS is numerically studied by our theoretical analysis.

id: quant-ph/0304022
title: Polarization squeezing with cold atoms
authors: Vincent Josse, Aurelien Dantan, Laurent Vernac, Alberto Bramati, Michel Pinard, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 91 (2003) 103601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304022
abstract: We study the interaction of a nearly resonant linearly polarized laser beam with a cloud of cold cesium atoms in a high finesse optical cavity. We show theoretically and experimentally that the cross-Kerr effect due to the saturation of the optical transition produces quadrature squeezing on both the mean field and the orthogonally polarized vacuum mode. An interpretation of this vacuum squeezing as polarization squeezing is given and a method for measuring quantum Stokes parameters for weak beams via a local oscillator is developed.

id: quant-ph/0304023
title: Observables and States p-Mechanics
authors: Alastair Brodlie, Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX, pages 37 pages, 4 PS figures
journal: Advances in Mathematics Research, V, Nova Sci., 2003, pp. 101-136.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304023
abstract: This is an up-to-date survey of the p-mechanical construction (see funct-an/9405002, quant-ph/9610016, math-ph/0007030, quant-ph/0212101, quant-ph/0303142), which is a consistent physical theory suitable for a simultaneous description of classical and quantum mechanics. Observables in p-mechanics are defined to be convolution operators on the Heisenberg group H^n. Under irreducible representations of H^n the p-observables generate corresponding observables in classical and quantum mechanics. p-States are defined as positive linear functionals on p-observables. It is shown that both states and observables can be realised as certain sets of functions/distributions on the Heisenberg group. The dynamical equations for both p-observables and p-states are provided. The construction is illustrated by the forced and unforced harmonic oscillators. Connections with the contextual interpretation of quantum mechanics are discussed. Keywords: Classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, Moyal brackets, Poisson brackets, commutator, Heisenberg group, orbit method, deformation quantisation, symplectic group, representation theory, metaplectic representation, Berezin quantisation, Weyl quantisation, Segal--Bargmann--Fock space, coherent states, wavelet transform, Liouville equation, contextual interpretation, interaction picture, forced harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0304024
title: Quantum mechanics and low energy nucleon dynamics
authors: Renat Kh.Gainutdinov, Aigul A.Mutygullina
comments: 20 pages, ReVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304024
abstract: We discuss the problem of consistency of quantum mechanics as applied to low energy nucleon dynamics with the symmetries of QCD. It is shown that the dynamics consistent with these symmetries is not governed by the Schrodinger equation. We present a new way to formulate the effective theory of nuclear forces as an inevitable consequence of the basic principles of quantum mechanics and the symmetries of strong interactions. We show that being formulated in this way the effective theory of nuclear forces can be put on the same firm theoretical grounds as the quantum mechanics of atomic phenomena. In this case the effective theory allows one to describe with a given accuracy not only two-nucleon scattering, but also the evolution of nucleon systems, and places the constraints on the off-shell behavior of the two-nucleon interaction. In this way we predict the off-shell behavior of the S wave two-nucleon T-matrix at very low energies when the pionless theory is applicable. Further extensions and applications of this approach are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0304025
title: Locality and measurements within the SR model for an objective interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Claudio Garola, Jaroslaw Pykacz
comments: 29 pages, minor corrections
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 34, No. 3, March 2004 (449-475)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304025
abstract: One of the authors has recently propounded an SR (semantic realism) model which shows, circumventing known no-go theorems, that an objective (noncontextual, hence local) interpretation of quantum mechanics (QM) is possible. We consider here compound physical systems and show why the proofs of nonlocality of QM do not hold within the SR model. We also discuss quantum measurement theory within this model, note that the objectification problem disappears since the measurement of any property simply reveals its unknown value, and show that the projection postulate can be considered as an approximate law, valid FAPP (for all practical purposes). Finally, we provide an intuitive justification for some unusual features of the SR model.

id: quant-ph/0304026
title: A complete set of covariants of the four qubit system
authors: E. Briand, J.-G. Luque, J.-Y. Thibon
comments: 14 pages, IOP macros; slightly expanded version
journal: Journal of Physics A 36 (2003), 9915-9927
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304026
abstract: We obtain a complete and minimal set of 170 generators for the algebra of $SL(2,\C)^{\times 4}$-covariants of a binary quadrilinear form. Interpreted in terms of a four qubit system, this describes in particular the algebraic varieties formed by the orbits of local filtering operations in its projective Hilbert space. Also, this sheds some light on the local unitary invariants, and provides all the possible building blocks for the construction of entanglement measures for such a system.

id: quant-ph/0304027
title: Distinguishability of complete and unextendible product bases
authors: Sergio De Rinaldis
comments: added necessary and sufficient condition for complete product bases, example Lagarias-Shor ten-parties complete basis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304027
abstract: It is not always possible to distinguish multipartite orthogonal states if only local operation and classical communication (LOCC) are allowed. We prove that we cannot distinguish the states of an unextendible product basis (UPB) by LOCC even when infinite resources (infinite-dimensional ancillas, infinite number of operations). Moreover we give a necessary and sufficient condition for the LOCC distinguishability of complete product bases.

id: quant-ph/0304028
title: Resonant nonstationary amplification of polychromatic laser pulses and conical emission in an optically dense ensemble of neon metastable atoms
authors: S. N. Bagayev, V. S. Egorov, I. B. Mekhov, P. V. Moroshkin, I. A. Chekhonin, E. M. Davliatchine, E. Kindel
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures, corrected, Fig.8 was changed, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, p. 043812 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304028
abstract: Experimental and numerical investigation of single-beam and pump-probe interaction with a resonantly absorbing dense extended medium under strong and weak field-matter coupling is presented. Significant probe beam amplification and conical emission were observed. Under relatively weak pumping and high medium density, when the condition of strong coupling between field and resonant matter is fulfilled, the probe amplification spectrum has a form of spectral doublet. Stronger pumping leads to the appearance of a single peak of the probe beam amplification at the transition frequency. The greater probe intensity results in an asymmetrical transmission spectrum with amplification at the blue wing of the absorption line and attenuation at the red one. Under high medium density, a broad band of amplification appears. Theoretical model is based on the solution of the Maxwell-Bloch equations for a two-level system. Different types of probe transmission spectra obtained are attributed to complex dynamics of a coherent medium response to broadband polychromatic radiation of a multimode dye laser.

id: quant-ph/0304029
title: The Brody-Hughston Fisher Information Metric
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: nine pages, eight figures, LaTeX, some additional Commentary and analyses
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304029
abstract: We study the interrelationships between the Fisher information metric recently introduced, on the basis of maximum entropy considerations, by Brody and Hughston (quant-ph/9906085) and the monotone metrics, as explicated by Petz and Sudar. This new metric turns out to be not strictly monotone in nature, and to yield (via its normalized volume element) a prior probability distribution over the Bloch ball of two-level quantum systems that is less noninformative than those obtained from any of the monotone metrics, even the minimal monotone (Bures) metric. We best approximate the additional information contained in the Brody-Hughston prior over that contained in the Bures prior by constructing a certain Bures posterior probability distribution. This is proportional to the product of the Bures prior and a likelihood function based on four pairs of spin measurements oriented along the diagonal axes of an inscribed cube.

id: quant-ph/0304030
title: Two-photon interference without bunching two photons
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, two-column
journal: Physics Letters A, 315, 352 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304030
abstract: We report an interference experiment in which the two-photon entangled state interference cannot be pictured in terms of the overlap and bunching of two individual photons on a beamsplitter. We also demonstrate that two-photon interference, or photon bunching effect on a beamsplitter, does not occur if the two-photon Feynman amplitudes are distinguishable, even though individual photons do overlap on a beamsplitter. Therefore, two-photon interference cannot be viewed as interference of two individual photons, rather it should be viewed as two-photon or biphoton interfering with itself. The results may also be useful for studying decoherence management in entangled two-qubit systems as we observe near complete restoration of quantum interference after the qubit pairs, generated by a femtosecond laser pulse, went through certain birefringent elements.

id: quant-ph/0304031
title: Interaction-free generation of entanglement
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 18 pages, Latex2e, 11 eps figures, v2: minor corrections and one reference added, v3: a minor correction
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022320 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304031
abstract: In this paper, we study how to generate entanglement by interaction-free measurement. Using Kwiat et al.'s interferometer, we construct a two-qubit quantum gate that changes a particle's trajectory according to the other particle's trajectory. We propose methods for generating the Bell state from an electron and a positron and from a pair of photons by this gate. We also show that using this gate, we can carry out the Bell measurement with the probability of 3/4 at the maximum and execute a controlled-NOT operation by the method proposed by Gottesman and Chuang with the probability of 9/16 at the maximum. We estimate the success probability for generating the Bell state by our procedure under imperfect interaction.

id: quant-ph/0304032
title: Unambiguous quantum state filtering
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Masashi Ban, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012307 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304032
abstract: In this paper, we consider the generalized measurement where one particular quantum signal is unambiguously extracted from a set of non-commutative quantum signals and the other signals are filtered out. Simple expressions for the maximum detection probability and its POVM are derived. We applyl such unambiguous quantum state filtering to evaluation of the sensing of decoherence channels. The bounds of the precision limit for a given quantum state of probes and possible device implementations are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0304033
title: Deterministic Secure Direct Communication Using Mixed state
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304033
abstract: We show an improved ping-pong protocol which is based on the protocol showed by Kim Bostrom and Timo Felbinger [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 187902 (2002); quant-ph/0209040]. We show that our protocol is asymptotically secure key distribution and quasisecure direct communication using a single photon resource. And this protocol can be can be carried out with great efficiency and speed using today's technology.

id: quant-ph/0304034
title: Quantum Information as Reduced Classical Information
authors: B.A. Nikolov
comments: Latex, 2 pages. Authors e-mail: b.nikolov/shu-bg.net
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304034
abstract: It is shown on a simple classical model of a quantum particle at rest that information contained into the quantum state (quantum information) can be obtained by integrating the corresponding probability distribution on phase space, i.e. by reduction of the information contained into the classical state.

id: quant-ph/0304035
title: Quantum cryptography with continuous alphabet
authors: D.V.Sych, B.A.Grishanin, V.N.Zadkov
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX, submitted to J. Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics (special issue to follow the IQEC-2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304035
abstract: A new quantum cryptography protocol, based on all unselected states of a qubit as a sort of alphabet with continuous set of letters, is proposed. Its effectiveness is calculated and shown to be essentially higher than those of the other known protocols.

id: quant-ph/0304036
title: Experimental demonstration of quantum source coding
authors: Y. Mitsumori, J. A. Vaccaro, S. M. Barnett, E. Andersson, A. Hasegawa, M. Takeoka, M. Sasaki
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 217902 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304036
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of Schumacher's quantum noiseless coding theorem. Our experiment employs a sequence of single photons each of which represents three qubits. We initially prepare each photon in one of a set of 8 non-orthogonal codeword states corresponding to the value of a block of three binary letters. We use quantum coding to compress this quantum data into a two-qubit quantum channel and then uncompress the two-qubit channel to restore the original data with a fidelity approaching the theoretical limit.

id: quant-ph/0304037
title: Exceeding classical capacity limit in quantum optical channel
authors: Mikio Fujiwara, Masahiro Takeoka, Jun Mizuno, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 167906 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304037
abstract: The amount of information transmissible through a communications channel is determined by the noise characteristics of the channel and by the quantities of available transmission resources. In classical information theory, the amount of transmissible information can be increased twice at most when the transmission resource (e.g. the code length, the bandwidth, the signal power) is doubled for fixed noise characteristics. In quantum information theory, however, the amount of information transmitted can increase even more than twice. We present a proof-of-principle demonstration of this super-additivity of classical capacity of a quantum channel by using the ternary symmetric states of a single photon, and by event selection from a weak coherent light source. We also show how the super-additive coding gain, even in a small code length, can boost the communication performance of conventional coding technique.

id: quant-ph/0304038
title: Creation of effective magnetic fields in optical lattices: The Hofstadter butterfly for cold neutral atoms
authors: D. Jaksch, P. Zoller
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304038
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of neutral atoms in a 2D optical lattice which traps two distinct internal states of the atoms in different columns. Two Raman lasers are used to coherently transfer atoms from one internal state to the other, thereby causing hopping between the different columns. By adjusting the laser parameters appropriately we can induce a non vanishing phase of particles moving along a closed path on the lattice. This phase is proportional to the enclosed area and we thus simulate a magnetic flux through the lattice. This setup is described by a Hamiltonian identical to the one for electrons on a lattice subject to a magnetic field and thus allows us to study this equivalent situation under very well defined controllable conditions. We consider the limiting case of huge magnetic fields -- which is not experimentally accessible for electrons in metals -- where a fractal band structure, the Hofstadter butterfly, characterizes the system.

id: quant-ph/0304039
title: Adiabatic quantum search algorithm for structured problems
authors: J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 0 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062312 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304039
abstract: The study of quantum computation has been motivated by the hope of finding efficient quantum algorithms for solving classically hard problems. In this context, quantum algorithms by local adiabatic evolution have been shown to solve an unstructured search problem with a quadratic speed-up over a classical search, just as Grover's algorithm. In this paper, we study how the structure of the search problem may be exploited to further improve the efficiency of these quantum adiabatic algorithms. We show that by nesting a partial search over a reduced set of variables into a global search, it is possible to devise quantum adiabatic algorithms with a complexity that, although still exponential, grows with a reduced order in the problem size.

id: quant-ph/0304040
title: Locally accessible information: How much can the parties gain by cooperating?
authors: Piotr Badziag, Michal Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTeX4; v2: a conjecture partially proven, results unchanged; v3: small changes in presentation, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 91, 117901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304040
abstract: We investigate measurements of bipartite ensembles restricted to local operations and classical communication and find a universal Holevo-like upper bound on the locally accessible information. We analyze our bound and exhibit a class of states which saturate it. Finally, we link the bound to the problem of quantification of the nonlocality of the operations necessary to extract locally unaccessible information.

id: quant-ph/0304041
title: Bures volume of the set of mixed quantum states
authors: Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 15 revtex pages, 2 figures in .eps; ver. 3, Eq. (4.19) corrected
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 10083-10100 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304041
abstract: We compute the volume of the N^2-1 dimensional set M_N of density matrices of size N with respect to the Bures measure and show that it is equal to that of a N^2-1 dimensional hyper-halfsphere of radius 1/2. For N=2 we obtain the volume of the Uhlmann 3-D hemisphere, embedded in R^4. We find also the area of the boundary of the set M_N and obtain analogous results for the smaller set of all real density matrices. An explicit formula for the Bures-Hall normalization constants is derived for an arbitrary N.

id: quant-ph/0304042
title: Entanglement of formation for symmetric Gaussian states
authors: G. Giedke, M.M. Wolf, O.Krueger, R.F. Werner, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 107901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304042
abstract: We show that for a fixed amount of entanglement, two-mode squeezed states are those that maximize Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-like correlations. We use this fact to determine the entanglement of formation for all symmetric Gaussian states corresponding to two modes. This is the first instance in which this measure has been determined for genuine continuous variable systems.

id: quant-ph/0304043
title: A new method for the solution of the Schrodinger equation
authors: Paolo Amore, Alfredo Aranda, Arturo De Pace
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4
journal: Journal of Physics A 37 (2004) 3515-3525
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304043
abstract: We present a new method for the solution of the Schrodinger equation applicable to problems of non-perturbative nature. The method works by identifying three different scales in the problem, which then are treated independently: An asymptotic scale, which depends uniquely on the form of the potential at large distances; an intermediate scale, still characterized by an exponential decay of the wave function and, finally, a short distance scale, in which the wave function is sizable. The key feature of our method is the introduction of an arbitrary parameter in the last two scales, which is then used to optimize a perturbative expansion in a suitable parameter. We apply the method to the quantum anharmonic oscillator and find excellent results.

id: quant-ph/0304044
title: Spin-based all-optical quantum computation with quantum dots: understanding and suppressing decoherence
authors: T. Calarco, A. Datta, P. Fedichev, E. Pazy, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 012310 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304044
abstract: We present an all-optical implementation of quantum computation using semiconductor quantum dots. Quantum memory is represented by the spin of an excess electron stored in each dot. Two-qubit gates are realized by switching on trion-trion interactions between different dots. State selectivity is achieved via conditional laser excitation exploiting Pauli exclusion principle. Read-out is performed via a quantum-jump technique. We analyze the effect on our scheme's performance of the main imperfections present in real quantum dots: exciton decay, hole mixing and phonon decoherence. We introduce an adiabatic gate procedure that allows one to circumvent these effects, and evaluate quantitatively its fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0304045
title: Decoherence of the flux-based superconducting qubit in an integrated circuit environment
authors: Jonathan L. Habif, Mark F. Bocko
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304045
abstract: Superconducting, flux-based qubits are promising candidates for the construction of a large scale quantum computer. We present an explicit quantum mechanical calculation of the coherent behavior of a flux based quantum bit in a noisy experimental environment such as an integrated circuit containing bias and control electronics. We show that non-thermal noise sources, such as bias current fluctuations and magnetic coupling to nearby active control circuits, will cause decoherence of a flux-based qubit on a timescale comparable to recent experimental coherence time measurements.

id: quant-ph/0304046
title: PT symmetric models in more dimensions and solvable square-well versions of their angular Schroedinger equations
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures (see version 1), amendment (a single comment added on p. 7)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 7825-7838
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304046
abstract: For any central potential V in D dimensions, the angular Schroedinger equation remains the same and defines the so called hyperspherical harmonics. For non-central models, the situation is more complicated. We contemplate two examples in the plane: (1) the partial differential Calogero's three-body model (without centre of mass and with an impenetrable core in the two-body interaction), and (2) the Smorodinsky-Winternitz' superintegrable harmonic oscillator (with one or two impenetrable barriers). These examples are solvable due to the presence of the barriers. We contemplate a small complex shift of the angle. This creates a problem: the barriers become "translucent" and the angular potentials cease to be solvable, having the sextuple-well form for Calogero model and the quadruple or double well form otherwise. We mimic the effect of these potentials on the spectrum by the multiple, purely imaginary square wells and tabulate and discuss the result in the first nontrivial double-well case.

id: quant-ph/0304047
title: Bohmian trajectories on a toroidal surface
authors: M. Encinosa, F. Sales-Mayor
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304047
abstract: Bohmian trajectories on the toroidal surface T^2 are determined from eigenfunctions of the Schrodinger equation. An expression for the monodromy matrix M(t) on a curved surface is developed and eigenvalues of M(t) on T^2 calculated. Lyapunov exponents for trajectories on T^2 are found for some trajectories to be of order unity.

id: quant-ph/0304048
title: Weak localisation of light by atoms with quantum internal structure
authors: C. A. Mueller, C. Miniatura
comments: 14 pages, to appear in "Wave Scattering in Complex Media: From Theory to Applications" ed. by B.A. van Tiggelen and S.E. Skipetrov
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304048
abstract: The interference contrast observed in coherent backscattering by cold atoms is drastically reduced with respect to classical disordered media. We study the impact of the degeneracy of the resonant atomic dipole transition on multiple scattering of polarised photons. An analytical treatment allows to derive the diffusion coefficient and depolarisation times for the average light intensity, and dephasing times for the weak localisation corrections. The calculated CBS signals reproduce the experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0304049
title: The role of phase space geometry in Heisenberg's uncertainty relation
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 28 pages, latex
journal: Annals Phys. 308 (2003) 329-353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304049
abstract: Aiming towards a geometric description of quantum theory, we study the coherent states-induced metric on the phase space, which provides a geometric formulation of the Heisenberg uncertainty relations (both the position-momentum and the time-energy ones). The metric also distinguishes the original uncertainty relations of Heisenberg from the ones that are obtained from non-commutativity of operators. Conversely, the uncertainty relations can be written in terms of this metric only, hence they can be formulated for any physical system, including ones with non-trivial phase space. Moreover, the metric is a key ingredient of the probability structure of continuous-time histories on phase space. This fact allows a simple new proof the impossibility of the physical manifestation of the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno paradoxes. Finally, we construct the coherent states for a spinless relativistic particle, as a non-trivial example by which we demonstrate our results.

id: quant-ph/0304050
title: Maximizing the Hilbert space for a finite number of distinguishable quantum states
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, S. G. Schirmer, F. Green, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, A. R. Hamilton, R. G. Clark
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 097901 (2004), also appeared in Virtual Journal of Quantum Information, March 04 issue, and Virtual Journal of Nanoscale Science and Technology, March 15, 04, issue.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304050
abstract: We consider a quantum system with a finite number of distinguishable quantum states, which may be partitioned freely by a number of quantum particles, assumed to be maximally entangled. We show that if we partition the system into a number of qudits, then the Hilbert space dimension is maximized when each quantum particle is allowed to represent a qudit of order $e$. We demonstrate that the dimensionality of an entangled system, constrained by the total number quantum states, partitioned so as to maximize the number of qutrits will always exceed the dimensionality of other qudit partitioning. We then show that if we relax the requirement of partitioning the system into qudits, but instead let the particles exist in any given state, that the Hilbert space dimension is greatly increased.

id: quant-ph/0304051
title: Spin squeezing criterion with local unitary invariance
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, Xiaoguang Wang, Barry C Sanders
comments: 6 pages. Version 3: Small corrections
journal: Quantum Information Processing 2 (3), 207-220 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304051
abstract: We propose a new spin squeezing criterion for arbitrary multi-qubit states that is invariant under local unitary operations. We find that, for arbitrary pure two-qubit states, spin squeezing is equivalent to entanglement, and multi-qubit states are entangled if this new spin squeezing parameter is less than 1.

id: quant-ph/0304052
title: Quantum Search on Bounded-Error Inputs
authors: Peter Hoyer, Michele Mosca, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 9 pages Latex. To appear in Proceedings of ICALP 03. 2nd version: corrected affiliation of 2nd author (no other changes)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304052
abstract: Suppose we have n algorithms, quantum or classical, each computing some bit-value with bounded error probability. We describe a quantum algorithm that uses O(sqrt{n}) repetitions of the base algorithms and with high probability finds the index of a 1-bit among these n bits (if there is such an index). This shows that it is not necessary to first significantly reduce the error probability in the base algorithms to O(1/poly(n)) (which would require O(sqrt{n}log n) repetitions in total). Our technique is a recursive interleaving of amplitude amplification and error-reduction, and may be of more general interest. Essentially, it shows that quantum amplitude amplification can be made to work also with a bounded-error verifier. As a corollary we obtain optimal quantum upper bounds of O(sqrt{N}) queries for all constant-depth AND-OR trees on N variables, improving upon earlier upper bounds of O(sqrt{N}polylog(N)).

id: quant-ph/0304053
title: Experimental verification of a fully inseparable tripartite continuous-variable state
authors: Takao Aoki, Nobuyuki Takei, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Kentaro Wakui, Takuji Hiraoka, Akira Furusawa, Peter van Loock
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304053
abstract: A continuous-variable tripartite entangled state is experimentally generated by combining three independent squeezed vacuum states and the variances of its relative positions and total momentum are measured. We show that the measured values violate the separability criteria based on the sum of these quantities and prove the full inseparability of the generated state.

id: quant-ph/0304054
title: Quantum computation based on d-level cluster states
authors: D. L. Zhou, B. Zeng, Z. Xu, C. P. Sun
comments: Revtex4, 15 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304054
abstract: The concept of qudit (a d-level system) cluster state is proposed by generalizing the qubit cluster state (Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{86}, 910 (2001)) according to the finite dimensional representations of quantum plane algebra. We demonstrate their quantum correlations and prove a theorem which guarantees the availability of the qudit cluster states in quantum computation. We explicitly construct the network to show the universality of the one-way computer based on the defined qudit cluster states and single-qudit measurement. And the corresponding protocol of implementing one-way quantum computer can be suggested with the high dimensional "Ising" model which can be found in many magnetic systems.

id: quant-ph/0304055
title: Revisiting the Schrodinger probability current
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304055
abstract: We revisit the definition of the probability current for the Schrodinger equation. First, we prove that the Dirac probability currents of stationary wave functions of the hydrogen atom and of the isotrop harmonic oscillator are not nil and correspond to a circular rotation of the probability. Then, we recall how it is necessary to add to classical Pauli and Schrodinger currents, an additional spin-dependant current, the Gordan current. Consequently, we get a circular probability current in the Schrodinger approximation for the hydrogen atom and the isotrop harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0304056
title: Eutactic quantum codes
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review A 69, 034303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304056
abstract: We consider sets of quantum observables corresponding to eutactic stars. Eutactic stars are systems of vectors which are the lower dimensional ``shadow'' image, the orthogonal view, of higher dimensional orthonormal bases. Although these vector systems are not comeasurable, they represent redundant coordinate bases with remarkable properties. One application is quantum secret sharing.

id: quant-ph/0304057
title: Simple criteria for projective measurements with linear optics
authors: Peter van Loock, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304057
abstract: We derive a set of criteria to decide whether a given projection measurement can be, in principle, exactly implemented solely by means of linear optics. The derivation can be adapted to various detection methods, including photon counting and homodyne detection. These criteria enable one to obtain easily No-Go theorems for the exact distinguishability of orthogonal quantum states with linear optics including the use of auxiliary photons and conditional dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0304058
title: Nuclear magnetic resonance implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm using different initial states
authors: Vladimir L. Ermakov, B. M. Fung
comments: accepted for publication in the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304058
abstract: The Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm distinguishes constant functions from balanced functions with a single evaluation. In the first part of this work, we present simulations of the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) application of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm to a 3-spin system for all possible balanced functions. Three different kinds of initial states are considered: a thermal state, a pseudopure state, and a pair (difference) of pseudopure states. Then, simulations of several balanced functions and the two constant functions of a 5-spin system are described. Finally, corresponding experimental spectra obtained by using a 16-frequency pulse to create an input equivalent to either a constant function or a balanced function are presented, and the results are compared with those obtained from computer simulations.

id: quant-ph/0304059
title: Purity of Gaussian states: measurement schemes and time-evolution in noisy channels
authors: M. G. A. Paris, F. Illuminati, A. Serafini, S. De Siena
comments: 9 Pages, 6 Figures; minor errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012314 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304059
abstract: We present a systematic study of the purity for Gaussian states of single-mode continuous variable systems. We prove the connection of purity to observable quantities for these states, and show that the joint measurement of two conjugate quadratures is necessary and sufficient to determine the purity at any time. The statistical reliability and the range of applicability of the proposed measurement scheme is tested by means of Monte Carlo simulated experiments. We then consider the dynamics of purity in noisy channels. We derive an evolution equation for the purity of general Gaussian states both in thermal and squeezed thermal baths. We show that purity is maximized at any given time for an initial coherent state evolving in a thermal bath, or for an initial squeezed state evolving in a squeezed thermal bath whose asymptotic squeezing is orthogonal to that of the input state.

id: quant-ph/0304060
title: Paradox of Quantum Information
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 4 pages, with additional discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304060
abstract: The notion of quantum information related to the two different perspectives of the global and local states is examined. There is circularity in the definition of quantum information because we can speak only of the information of systems that have been specifically prepared. In particular, we examine the final state obtained by applying unitary transformations on a single qubit that belongs to an entangled pair.

id: quant-ph/0304061
title: Nonunitary quantum circuit
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures; added a reference
journal: Int.J.Quantum Inform. 3 (2005) 633-647
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304061
abstract: A quantum circuit is generalized to a nonunitary one whose constituents are nonunitary gates operated by quantum measurement. It is shown that a specific type of one-qubit nonunitary gates, the controlled-NOT gate, as well as all one-qubit unitary gates constitute a universal set of gates for the nonunitary quantum circuit, without the necessity of introducing ancilla qubits. A reversing measurement scheme is used to improve the probability of successful nonunitary gate operation. A quantum NAND gate and Abrams-Lloyd's nonlinear gate are analyzed as examples. Our nonunitary circuit can be used to reduce the qubit overhead needed to ensure fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0304062
title: Weakly nonlocal fluid mechanics - the Schrodinger equation
authors: P. Van, T. Fulop
comments: major extension and revision
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society,London A, 2006, V462, pp541-557
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304062
abstract: A weakly nonlocal extension of ideal fluid dynamics is derived from the Second Law of thermodynamics. It is proved that in the reversible limit the additional pressure term can be derived from a potential. The requirement of the additivity of the specific entropy function determines the quantum potential uniquely. The relation to other known derivations of Schr\"odinger equation (stochastic, Fisher information, exact uncertainty) is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0304063
title: Quantum Simulations of Physics Problems
authors: Rolando Somma, Gerardo Ortiz, Emanuel Knill, James Gubernatis
comments: 12 pages and 6 ps figures. Submitted to SPIE Aerosense 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304063
abstract: If a large Quantum Computer (QC) existed today, what type of physical problems could we efficiently simulate on it that we could not simulate on a classical Turing machine? In this paper we argue that a QC could solve some relevant physical "questions" more efficiently. The existence of one-to-one mappings between different algebras of observables or between different Hilbert spaces allow us to represent and imitate any physical system by any other one (e.g., a bosonic system by a spin-1/2 system). We explain how these mappings can be performed showing quantum networks useful for the efficient evaluation of some physical properties, such as correlation functions and energy spectra.

id: quant-ph/0304064
title: Generic Quantum Fourier Transforms
authors: Cristopher Moore, Daniel Rockmore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304064
abstract: The quantum Fourier transform (QFT) is the principal algorithmic tool underlying most efficient quantum algorithms. We present a generic framework for the construction of efficient quantum circuits for the QFT by ``quantizing'' the separation of variables technique that has been so successful in the study of classical Fourier transform computations. Specifically, this framework applies the existence of computable Bratteli diagrams, adapted factorizations, and Gel'fand-Tsetlin bases to offer efficient quantum circuits for the QFT over a wide variety a finite Abelian and non-Abelian groups, including all group families for which efficient QFTs are currently known and many new group families. Moreover, the method gives rise to the first subexponential-size quantum circuits for the QFT over the linear groups GL_k(q), SL_k(q), and the finite groups of Lie type, for any fixed prime power q.

id: quant-ph/0304065
title: Quantum diffusion on a cyclic one dimensional lattice
authors: A. C. de la Torre, H. O. Martin, D. Goyeneche
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68, 031103-1-9 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304065
abstract: The quantum diffusion of a particle in an initially localized state on a cyclic lattice with N sites is studied. Diffusion and reconstruction time are calculated. Strong differences are found for even or odd number of sites and the limit N->infinit is studied. The predictions of the model could be tested with micro - and nanotechnology devices.

id: quant-ph/0304066
title: Reliability of the beamsplitter based Bell-state measurement
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Warren P. Grice
comments: 4 pages, two-column
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062305 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304066
abstract: A linear 50/50 beamsplitter, together with a coincidence measurement, has been widely used in quantum optical experiments, such as teleportation, dense coding, etc., for interferometrically distinguishing, measuring, or projecting onto one of the four two-photon polarization Bell-states $|\psi^{(-)}>$. In this paper, we demonstrate that the coincidence measurement at the output of a beamsplitter cannot be used as an absolute identifier of the input state $|\psi^{(-)}>$ nor as an indication that the input photons have projected to the $|\psi^{(-)}>$ state.

id: quant-ph/0304067
title: Observation of correlated-photon statistics using a single detector
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Warren P. Grice
comments: 4 pages, two-column (minor errors corrected.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 065802 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304067
abstract: We report experimental observations of correlated-photon statistics in the single-photon detection rate. The usual quantum interference in a two-photon polarization interferometer always accompanies a dip in the single detector counting rate, regardless of whether a dip or peak is seen in the coincidence rate. This effect is explained by taking into account all possible photon number states that reach the detector, rather than considering just the state post-selected by the coincidence measurement. We also report an interferometeric scheme in which the interference peak or dip in coincidence corresponds directly to a peak or dip in the single-photon detection rate.

id: quant-ph/0304068
title: Geometric phases for non-degenerate and degenerate mixed states
authors: K. Singh, D. M. Tong, K. Basu, J. L. Chen, J. F. Du
comments: 23 pages
journal: PRA 67, 032106 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304068
abstract: This paper focuses on the geometric phase of general mixed states under unitary evolution. Here we analyze both non-degenerate as well as degenerate states. Starting with the non-degenerate case, we show that the usual procedure of subtracting the dynamical phase from the total phase to yield the geometric phase for pure states, does not hold for mixed states. To this end, we furnish an expression for the geometric phase that is gauge invariant. The parallelity conditions are shown to be easily derivable from this expression. We also extend our formalism to states that exhibit degeneracies. Here with the holonomy taking on a non-abelian character, we provide an expression for the geometric phase that is manifestly gauge invariant. As in the case of the non-degenerate case, the form also displays the parallelity conditions clearly. Finally, we furnish explicit examples of the geometric phases for both the non-degenerate as well as degenerate mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0304069
title: A simplification of entanglement purification
authors: Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Che-Ming Li, Der-San Chuu
comments: 4 figures, 10 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol 328/2-3, pp. 94-101(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304069
abstract: An idea of hybrid maps is proposed to establish standard entanglement purification protocols which guarantee to purify any distillable state to a desired maximally entangled pure state all by the standard purification local operations and classical communications. The protocols proposed in this work, in which two state transformations are used, perform better than the IBM and Oxford protocols in the sense that they require fewer operation times in yielding a same amount of the desired pure state. One of the proposed protocol in this work can even lead to a higher improved output yield when it is combined with the hashing protocol, as compared with the combined algorithm consisting of the Oxford and the hashing protocol.

id: quant-ph/0304070
title: Teleportation scheme implementing the Universal Optimal Quantum Cloning Machine and the Universal NOT gate
authors: M. Ricci, F. Sciarrino, C. Sias, F. De Martini
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304070
abstract: The universal quantum cloning machine and the universal NOT gate acting on a single qubit can be implemented very generally by slightly modifying the protocol of quantum state teleportation. The experimental demonstration of the 1 to 2 cloning process according to the above scheme has been realized for a qubit encoded in photon polarization.

id: quant-ph/0304071
title: Unitary realizations of the ideal phase measurement
authors: F. Buscemi, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 7 pages, no figures. Elsart style
journal: Phys. Lett. A 312, 315 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304071
abstract: We explicitly construct a large class of unitary transformations that allow to perform the ideal estimation of the phase-shift on a single-mode radiation field. The ideal phase distribution is obtained by heterodyne detection on two radiation modes after the interaction.

id: quant-ph/0304072
title: Full quantum solutions to the resonant four-wave mixing of two single-photon wave packets
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304072
abstract: We analyze both analytically and numerically the resonant four-wave mixing of two co-propagating single-photon wave packets. We present analytic expressions for the two-photon wave function and show that soliton-type quantum solutions exist which display a shape-preserving oscillatory exchange of excitations between the modes. Potential applications including quantum information processing are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0304073
title: On deciding whether a Boolean function is constant or not
authors: Fabio Benatti, Luca Marinatto
comments: 8 pages, Latex, 5 figures; accepted for publication on International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf.; Vol.1, No. 2 (2003) 237-246
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304073
abstract: We study the probability of making an error if, by querying an oracle a fixed number of times, we declare constant a randomly chosen n-bit Boolean function. We compare the classical and the quantum case, and we determine for how many oracle-queries k and for how many bits n one querying procedure is more efficient than the other.

id: quant-ph/0304074
title: Quantum vs classical computation: a proposal opening a new perspective
authors: A. Bassi, G.C. Ghirardi
comments: 13 pages, RevTeX. Misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304074
abstract: We develop a classical model of computation (the S model) which captures some important features of quantum computation, and which allows to design fast algorithms for solving specific problems. In particular, we show that Deutsch's problem can be trated within the S model of computation in the same way as within quantum computation; also Grover's search problem of an unsorted database finds a surprisingly fast solution. The correct understanding of these results put into a new perspective the relationship between quantum and classical computation.

id: quant-ph/0304075
title: Decoherence-Free Subspaces in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Zachary D. Walton, Ayman F. Abouraddy, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: A few minor errors corrected; accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304075
abstract: We demonstrate that two recent innovations in the field of practical quantum key distribution (one-way autocompensation and passive detection) are closely related to the methods developed to protect quantum computations from decoherence. We present a new scheme that combines these advantages, and propose a practical implementation of this scheme that is feasible using existing technology.

id: quant-ph/0304076
title: The Communication Cost of Simulating Bell Correlations
authors: B. F. Toner, D. Bacon
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 187904 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304076
abstract: What classical resources are required to simulate quantum correlations? For the simplest and most important case of local projective measurements on an entangled Bell pair state, we show that exact simulation is possible using local hidden variables augmented by just one bit of classical communication. Certain quantum teleportation experiments, which teleport a single qubit, therefore admit a local hidden variables model.

id: quant-ph/0304077
title: Von Neumann Measurement is Optimal for Detecting Linearly Independent Mixed Quantum States
authors: Yonina C. Eldar
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304077
abstract: We consider the problem of designing a measurement to minimize the probability of a detection error when distinguishing between a collection of possibly non-orthogonal mixed quantum states. We show that if the quantum state ensemble consists of linearly independent density operators then the optimal measurement is an orthogonal Von Neumann measurement consisting of mutually orthogonal projection operators and not a more general positive operator-valued measure.

id: quant-ph/0304078
title: The Controlled-U and Unitary Transformation in Two-Qudit
authors: Kunio Funahashi
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304078
abstract: We concretely construct an extension of the controlled-U gate in qudit from some elementary gates. We also construct unitary transformation in two-qudit by means of the extended controlled-U gate and show the universality of it.

id: quant-ph/0304079
title: Comments On "Three Paradox of Quantum Information"
authors: Wang Honghy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304079
abstract: Comments On "Three Paradox of Quantum Information"

id: quant-ph/0304080
title: Exact PT-Symmetry Is Equivalent to Hermiticity
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Few typos have been corrected and a reference updated
journal: J.Phys.A36:7081-7092,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304080
abstract: We show that a quantum system possessing an exact antilinear symmetry, in particular PT-symmetry, is equivalent to a quantum system having a Hermitian Hamiltonian. We construct the unitary operator relating an arbitrary non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with exact PT-symmetry to a Hermitian Hamiltonian. We apply our general results to PT-symmetry in finite-dimensions and give the explicit form of the above-mentioned unitary operator and Hermitian Hamiltonian in two dimensions. Our findings lead to the conjecture that non-Hermitian CPT-symmetric field theories are equivalent to certain nonlocal Hermitian field theories.

id: quant-ph/0304081
title: Coherence properties and quantum state transportation in an optical conveyor belt
authors: S. Kuhr, W. Alt, D. Schrader, I. Dotsenko, Y. Miroshnychenko, W. Rosenfeld, M. Khudaverdyan, V. Gomer, A. Rauschenbeutel, D. Meschede
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 213002 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304081
abstract: We have prepared and detected quantum coherences with long dephasing times at the level of single trapped cesium atoms. Controlled transport by an "optical conveyor belt" over macroscopic distances preserves the atomic coherence with slight reduction of coherence time. The limiting dephasing effects are experimentally identified and are of technical rather than fundamental nature. We present an analytical model of the reversible and irreversible dephasing mechanisms. Coherent quantum bit operations along with quantum state transport open the route towards a "quantum shift register" of individual neutral atoms.

id: quant-ph/0304082
title: Decidable and undecidable problems about quantum automata
authors: Vincent D. Blondel, Emmanuel Jeandel, Pascal Koiran, Natacha Portier
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304082
abstract: We study the following decision problem: is the language recognized by a quantum finite automaton empty or non-empty? We prove that this problem is decidable or undecidable depending on whether recognition is defined by strict or non-strict thresholds. This result is in contrast with the corresponding situation for probabilistic finite automata for which it is known that strict and non-strict thresholds both lead to undecidable problems.

id: quant-ph/0304083
title: Physical-resource demands for scalable quantum computation
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Ivan H. Deutsch, Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: This paper will be published in the proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics, Santa Fe, New Mexico, June 1--4, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304083
abstract: The primary resource for quantum computation is Hilbert-space dimension. Whereas Hilbert space itself is an abstract construction, the number of dimensions available to a system is a physical quantity that requires physical resources. Avoiding a demand for an exponential amount of these resources places a fundamental constraint on the systems that are suitable for scalable quantum computation. To be scalable, the number of degrees of freedom in the computer must grow nearly linearly with the number of qubits in an equivalent qubit-based quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0304084
title: Countinuous Quantum Hidden Subgroup Algorithms
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 9 pages, no figures, table of contents included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304084
abstract: In this paper we show how to construct two continuous variable and one continuous functional quantum hidden subgroup (QHS) algorithms. These are respectively quantum algorithms on the additive group of reals R, the additive group R/Z of the reals R mod 1, i.e., the circle, and the additive group Paths of L^2 paths x:[0,1]-->R^n in real n-space R^n. Also included is a curious discrete QHS algorithm which is dual to Shor's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0304085
title: The Semi-Quantum Computer
authors: Reinaldo O. Vianna, Wilson R. M. Rabelo, C. H. Monken
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables; final version: International Journal of Quantum Information, 1,2(2003)279-288
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Volume 1, Number 2, june 2003, pp 279-288
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304085
abstract: We discuss the performance of the Search and Fourier Transform algorithms on a hybrid computer constituted of classical and quantum processors working together. We show that this semi-quantum computer would be an improvement over a pure classical architecture, no matter how few qubits are available and, therefore, it suggests an easier implementable technology than a pure quantum computer with arbitrary number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0304086
title: Quantum interference with distinguishable photons through indistinguishable pathways
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim, Warren P. Grice
comments: 6 pages, major revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304086
abstract: We report a two-photon interference experiment in which the detected photons have very different properties. The interference is observed even when no effort is made to mask the distinguishing features before the photons are detected. The results can only be explained in terms of indistinguishable two-photon amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0304087
title: Symplectic evolution of Wigner functions in markovian open systems
authors: O. Brodier, A. M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: this new version treats the dissipative case
journal: Phys. Rev. E 69, 016204 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304087
abstract: The Wigner function is known to evolve classically under the exclusive action of a quadratic hamiltonian. If the system does interact with the environment through Lindblad operators that are linear functions of position and momentum, we show that the general evolution is the convolution of the classically evolving Wigner function with a phase space gaussian that broadens in time. We analyze the three generic cases of elliptic, hyperbolic and parabolic Hamiltonians. The Wigner function always becomes positive in a definite time, which is shortest in the hyperbolic case. We also derive an exact formula for the evolving linear entropy as the average of a narrowing gaussian taken over a probability distribution that depends only on the initial state. This leads to a long time asymptotic formula for the growth of linear entropy.

id: quant-ph/0304088
title: No spin-statistics connection in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: R. E. Allen, A. R. Mondragon
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304088
abstract: We emphasize that there is no spin-statistics connection in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. In several recent papers, including Phys. Rev. A 67, 042102 (2003) [quant-ph/0207017], quantum mechanics is modified so as to force a spin-statistics connection, but the resulting theory is quite different from standard physics.

id: quant-ph/0304089
title: Alternative Method for Quantum Feedback-Control
authors: Julian Juhi-Lian Ting
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304089
abstract: A new method for doing feedback control of single quantum systems was proposed. Instead of feeding back precisely the process output, a cloning machine served to obtain the feedback signal and the output. A simple example was given to demonstrate the method.

id: quant-ph/0304090
title: Hidden symmetry detection on a quantum computer
authors: R. Sch¨¹tzhold, W. G. Unruh
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304090
abstract: The fastest quantum algorithms (for the solution of classical computational tasks) known so far are basically variations of the hidden subgroup problem with {$f(U[x])=f(x)$}. Following a discussion regarding which tasks might be solved efficiently by quantum computers, it will be demonstrated by means of a simple example, that the detection of more general hidden (two-point) symmetries {$V\{f(x),f(U[x])\}=0$} by a quantum algorithm can also admit an exponential speed-up. E.g., one member of this class of symmetries {$V\{f(x),f(U[x])\}=0$} is discrete self-similarity (or discrete scale invariance). PACS: 03.67.Lx, 89.70.+c.

id: quant-ph/0304091
title: Entanglement Criteria - Quantum and Topological
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX, to appear in proceedings of Spie Conference, Orlando, Fla, April 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304091
abstract: This paper gives a criterion for detecting the entanglement of a quantum state, and uses it to study the relationship between topological and quantum entanglement. It is fundamental to view topological entanglements such as braids as entanglement operators and to associate to them unitary operators that are capable of creating quantum entanglement. The entanglement criterion is used to explore this connection. The paper discusses non-locality in the light of this criterion.

id: quant-ph/0304092
title: Mapping the Wigner distribution function of the Morse oscillator into a semi-classical distribution function
authors: G. W. Bund, M. C. Tijero
comments: Revtex, 27 pages including 13 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304092
abstract: The mapping of the Wigner distribution function (WDF) for a given bound-state onto a semiclassical distribution function (SDF) satisfying the Liouville equation introduced previously by us is applied to the ground state of the Morse oscillator. Here we give results showing that the SDF gets closer to the corresponding WDF as the number of levels of the Morse oscillator increases. We find that for a Morse oscillator with one level only, the agreement between the WDF and the mapped SDF is very poor but for a Morse oscillator of ten levels it becomes satisfactory.

id: quant-ph/0304093
title: Quantum State Control via Trap-induced Shape Resonance in Ultracold Atomic Collisions
authors: R. Stock, E. L. Bolda, I. H. Deutsch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 183201 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304093
abstract: We investigate controlled collisions between trapped but separated ultracold atoms. The interaction between atoms is treated self-consistently using an energy-dependent delta-function pseudopotential model, whose validity we establish. At a critical separation, a "trap-induced shape resonance" between a molecular bound states and a vibrational eigenstate of the trap can occur. This resonance leads to an avoided crossing in the eigenspectrum as a function of separation. We investigate how this new resonance can be employed for quantum control.

id: quant-ph/0304094
title: A New Symmetric Expression of Weyl Ordering
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: 15 pages, Latex2e, the title before replacement is "Orderings of Operators in Quantum Physics", new proofs by using a difference operator added, some references added, to appear in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 827-840
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304094
abstract: For the creation operator $\adag $ and the annihilation operator $a$ of a harmonic oscillator, we consider Weyl ordering expression of $(\adag a)^n$ and obtain a new symmetric expression of Weyl ordering w.r.t. $\adag a \equiv N$ and $a\adag =N+1$ where $N$ is the number operator. Moreover, we interpret intertwining formulas of various orderings in view of the difference theory. Then we find that the noncommutative parameter corresponds to the increment of the difference operator w.r.t. variable $N$. Therefore, quantum (noncommutative) calculations of harmonic oscillators are done by classical (commutative) ones of the number operator by using the difference theory. As a by-product, nontrivial relations including the Stirling number of the first kind are also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0304095
title: Entanglement of Formation for a Class of Quantum States
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Juergen Jost, Xianqing Li-Jost, Guo-Fang Wang
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 310 (2003)333-338
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304095
abstract: Entanglement of formation for a class of higher dimensional quantum mixed states is studied in terms of a generalized formula of concurrence for $N$-dimensional quantum systems. As applications, the entanglement of formation for a class of $16\times 16$ density matrices are calculated.

id: quant-ph/0304096
title: Schroedinger Proof in Minplus Complex Analysis
authors: Michel Gondran
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, Workshop on Idempotent Mathematics And Mathematical Physics in The International Erwin Schroedinger Institut (ESI) for Mathematical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304096
abstract: We are presenting an internal trajectory model for a quantum particle in the Schroedinger non-relativistic approximation. This model is based on two new mathematical concepts: a complex analytical mechanics in Minplus complex analysis and a periodical non random process which gives a complex Ito formula. This model naturally generates a concept of spin or isospin and the Heisenberg inequalities, and leads to the Schroedinger equation using a generalization of the least action principle adapted to the trajectories of this type.

id: quant-ph/0304097
title: Einstein, Wigner, and Feynman: From E = mc^{2} to Feynman's decoherence via Wigner's little groups
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 15 pages, 1 figure, presented at the Wigner Centennial Conference held in Pecs, Hungary (July 2002), published in the proceedings (Acta Physica Hungarica, 2003), minor corrections to the original version
journal: Acta Phys.Hung. A19 (2004) 317-328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304097
abstract: The 20th-century physics starts with Einstein and ends with Feynman. Einstein introduced the Lorentz-covariant world with E = mc^{2}. Feynman observed that fast-moving hadrons consist of partons which act incoherently with external signals. If quarks and partons are the same entities observed in different Lorentz frames, the question then is why partons are incoherent while quarks are coherent. This is the most puzzling question Feynman left for us to solve. In this report, we discuss Wigner's role in settling this question. Einstein's E = mc^{2}, which takes the form E = \sqrt{m^{2} + p^{2}}, unifies the energy-momentum relations for massive and massless particles, but it does not take into account internal space-time structure of relativistic particles. It is pointed out Wigner's 1939 paper on the inhomogeneous Lorentz group defines particle spin and gauge degrees of freedom in the Lorentz-covariant world. Within the Wigner framework, it is shown possible to construct the internal space-time structure for hadrons in the quark model. It is then shown that the quark model and the parton model are two different manifestations of the same covariant entity. It is shown therefore that the lack of coherence in Feynman's parton picture is an effect of the Lorentz covariance.

id: quant-ph/0304098
title: Ground state entanglement in quantum spin chains
authors: J. I. Latorre, E. Rico, G. Vidal
comments: 26 pages, 16 figures, added references, minor changes. Final version
journal: Quant.Inf.Comput. 4 (2004) 48-92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304098
abstract: A microscopic calculation of ground state entanglement for the XY and Heisenberg models shows the emergence of universal scaling behavior at quantum phase transitions. Entanglement is thus controlled by conformal symmetry. Away from the critical point, entanglement gets saturated by a mass scale. Results borrowed from conformal field theory imply irreversibility of entanglement loss along renormalization group trajectories. Entanglement does not saturate in higher dimensions which appears to limit the success of the density matrix renormalization group technique. A possible connection between majorization and renormalization group irreversibility emerges from our numerical analysis.

id: quant-ph/0304099
title: Automated Method for Building CNOT Based Quantum Circuits for Boolean Functions
authors: Ahmed Younes, Julian Miller
comments: 18 pages
journal: In Proceeding of ICENCO2004 pp. 562- 565 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304099
abstract: In this paper we discuss an efficient technique that can implement any given Boolean function as a quantum circuit. The method converts a truth table of a Boolean function to the corresponding quantum circuit using a minimal number of auxiliary qubits. We give examples of some circuits synthesized with this technique. A direct result that follows from the technique is a new way to convert any classical digital circuit to its classical reversible form.

id: quant-ph/0304100
title: Decoherence, irreversibility and the selection by decoherence of quantum states with definite probabilities
authors: Roland Omnes
comments: 54 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A65 (2002) 052119-137
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304100
abstract: The problem investigated in this paper is einselection, i. e. the selection of mutually exclusive quantum states with definite probabilities through decoherence. Its study is based on a theory of decoherence resulting from the projection method in the quantum theory of irreversible processes, which is general enough for giving reliable predictions. This approach leads to a definition (or redefinition) of the coupling with the environment involving only fluctuations. The range of application of perturbation calculus is then wide, resulting in a rather general master equation. Two distinct cases of decoherence are then found: (i) A ``degenerate'' case (already encountered with solvable models) where decoherence amounts essentially to approximate diagonalization; (ii) A general case where the einselected states are essentially classical. They are mixed states. Their density operators are proportional to microlocal projection operators (or ``quasi projectors'') which were previously introduced in the quantum expression of classical properties. It is found at various places that the main limitation in our understanding of decoherence is the lack of a systematic method for constructing collective observables.

id: quant-ph/0304101
title: Cyclotomy and Ramanujan sums in quantum phase locking
authors: M. Planat, H.C. Rosu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, version accepted at Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 315 (2003) 1-5
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304101
abstract: Phase-locking governs the phase noise in classical clocks through effects described in precise mathematical terms. We seek here a quantum counterpart of these effects by working in a finite Hilbert space. We use a coprimality condition to define phase-locked quantum states and the corresponding Pegg-Barnett type phase operator. Cyclotomic symmetries in matrix elements are revealed and related to Ramanujan sums in the theory of prime numbers. The employed mathematical procedures also emphasize the isomorphism between algebraic number theory and the theory of quantum entanglement

id: quant-ph/0304102
title: Capacities of Quantum Channels and How to Find Them
authors: P. W. Shor
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures, invited talk for 18th International Symposium on Mathematical Programming, Copenhagen, Denmark, August 2003
journal: Mathematical Programming vol. 97 pp. 311-335 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304102
abstract: We survey what is known about the information transmitting capacities of quantum channels, and give a proposal for how to calculate some of these capacities using linear programming.

id: quant-ph/0304103
title: Estimating purity in terms of correlation functions
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Thomas H. Seligman, Marko Znidaric
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. A 67 062108 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304103
abstract: We prove a rigorous inequality estimating the purity of a reduced density matrix of a composite quantum system in terms of cross-correlation of the same state and an arbitrary product state. Various immediate applications of our result are proposed, in particular concerning Gaussian wave-packet propagation under classically regular dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0304104
title: Theory of quantum Loschmidt echoes
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Thomas H. Seligman, Marko Znidaric
comments: 29 pages, 11 figures ; Maribor 2002 proceedings
journal: Prog.Theo.Phys.Supp. 150 (2003), 200-228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304104
abstract: In this paper we review our recent work on the theoretical approach to quantum Loschmidt echoes, i.e. various properties of the so called echo dynamics -- the composition of forward and backward time evolutions generated by two slightly different Hamiltonians, such as the state autocorrelation function (fidelity) and the purity of a reduced density matrix traced over a subsystem (purity fidelity). Our main theoretical result is a linear response formalism, expressing the fidelity and purity fidelity in terms of integrated time autocorrelation function of the generator of the perturbation. Surprisingly, this relation predicts that the decay of fidelity is the slower the faster the decay of correlations. In particular for a static (time-independent) perturbation, and for non-ergodic and non-mixing dynamics where asymptotic decay of correlations is absent, a qualitatively different and faster decay of fidelity is predicted on a time scale 1/delta as opposed to mixing dynamics where the fidelity is found to decay exponentially on a time-scale 1/delta^2, where delta is a strength of perturbation. A detailed discussion of a semi-classical regime of small effective values of Planck constant is given where classical correlation functions can be used to predict quantum fidelity decay. Note that the correct and intuitively expected classical stability behavior is recovered in the classical limit, as the perturbation and classical limits do not commute. The theoretical results are demonstrated numerically for two models, the quantized kicked top and the multi-level Jaynes Cummings model. Our method can for example be applied to the stability analysis of quantum computation and quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0304105
title: Quantum interference with beamlike type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, two-column
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 013804 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304105
abstract: We implement experimentally a method to generate photon-number$-$path and polarization entangled photon pairs using ``beamlike'' type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC), in which the signal-idler photon pairs are emitted as two separate circular beams with small emission angles rather than as two diverging cones.

id: quant-ph/0304106
title: Interference of Hydrogen Atom 2P(1/2) State in a Field of a Few Small Perturbations
authors: Yu. A. Kucheryaev, Yu. L. Sokolov
comments: 14 pages with 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304106
abstract: The interference of hydrogen atom 2P(1/2) state in a field of a few small overlapping perturbations is considered in view of further applications to experimental data interpretation. On a basis of this model two new experiments are proposed which can clarify some features of Sokolov effect.

id: quant-ph/0304107
title: Distillable entanglement in $d\otimes d$ dimension
authors: S. Hamieh, H. Zaraket
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) L387-L391
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304107
abstract: Distillable entanglement ($E_d$) is one of the acceptable measures of entanglement of mixed states. Based on discrimination through local operation and classical communication, this paper gives $E_d$ for two classes of orthogonal multipartite maximally entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0304108
title: Quantum Spin Chain, Toeplitz Determinants and Fisher-Hartwig Conjecture
authors: B.-Q.Jin, V.E.Korepin
comments: LATEX, 17 pages, 1 fig
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, vol 116, Nos. 1-4, pages 79-95, August 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304108
abstract: We consider one-dimensional quantum spin chain, which is called XX model, XX0 model or isotropic XY model in a transverse magnetic field. We study the model on the infinite lattice at zero temperature. We are interested in the entropy of a subsystem [a block of L neighboring spins]. It describes entanglement of the block with the rest of the ground state. G. Vidal, J.I. Latorre, E. Rico, and A. Kitaev showed that for large blocks the entropy scales logarithmically. We prove the logarithmic formula for the leading term and calculate the next term. We discovered that the dependence on the magnetic field interacting with spins is very simple: the magnetic field effectively reduce the size of the subsystem. We also calculate entropy of a subsystem of a small size. We also evaluated Renyi and Tsallis entropies of the subsystem. We represented the entropy in terms of a Toeplitz determinant and calculated the asymptotic analytically.

id: quant-ph/0304109
title: Laws, Symmetries, and Reality
authors: Jeeva Anandan
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. This paper is based on the invited talk given by the author at the Wigner Centennial Conference, Pecs, Hungary, 8-12 July, 2002
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.42:1943-1955,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304109
abstract: It is argued that quantum mechanics follows naturally from the assumptions that there are no fundamental causal laws but only probabilities for physical processes that are constrained by symmetries, and reality is relational in the sense that an object is real only in relation to another object that it is interacting with. The first assumption makes it natural to include in the action for a gauge theory all terms that are allowed by the symmetries, enabling cancellation of infinities, with only the terms in the standard model observable at the energies at which we presently do our experiments. In this approach, it is also natural to have an infinite number of fundamental interactions.

id: quant-ph/0304110
title: Non-positivity of the Wigner function and bounds on associated integrals
authors: A.J. Bracken, D. Ellinas, J.G. Wood
comments: 5 pages, Latex2e file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304110
abstract: The Wigner function shares several properties with classical distribution functions on phase space, but is not positive-definite. The integral of the Wigner function over a given region of phase space can therefore lie outside the interval [0,1]. The problem of finding best-possible upper and lower bounds for a given region is the problem of finding the greatest and least eigenvalues of an associated Hermitian operator. Exactly solvable examples are described, and possible extensions are indicated.

id: quant-ph/0304111
title: Conditional preparation of a quantum state in the continuous variable regime: generation of a sub-Poissonian state from twin beams
authors: Julien Laurat, Thomas Coudreau, Nicolas Treps, Agnes Maitre, Claude Fabre
comments: 4 pages, Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 213601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304111
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of conditional preparation of a non classical state of light in the continuous variable regime. Starting from a non degenerate OPO which generates above threshold quantum intensity correlated signal and idler "twin beams", we keep the recorded values of the signal intensity only when the idler falls inside a band of values narrower than its standard deviation. By this very simple technique, we generate a sub-Poissonian state 4.4dB below shot noise from twin beams exhibiting 7.5dB of noise reduction in the intensity difference.

id: quant-ph/0304112
title: Multiparty Quantum Coin Flipping
authors: Andris Ambainis, Harry Buhrman, Yevgeniy Dodis, Hein Roehrig
comments: v2: bounds now tight via new protocol; to appear at IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304112
abstract: We investigate coin-flipping protocols for multiple parties in a quantum broadcast setting: (1) We propose and motivate a definition for quantum broadcast. Our model of quantum broadcast channel is new. (2) We discovered that quantum broadcast is essentially a combination of pairwise quantum channels and a classical broadcast channel. This is a somewhat surprising conclusion, but helps us in both our lower and upper bounds. (3) We provide tight upper and lower bounds on the optimal bias epsilon of a coin which can be flipped by k parties of which exactly g parties are honest: for any 1 <= g <= k, epsilon = 1/2 - Theta(g/k). Thus, as long as a constant fraction of the players are honest, they can prevent the coin from being fixed with at least a constant probability. This result stands in sharp contrast with the classical setting, where no non-trivial coin-flipping is possible when g <= k/2.

id: quant-ph/0304113
title: Quantum walks on cycles
authors: Malgorzata Bednarska, Andrzej Grudka, Pawel Kurzynski, Tomasz Luczak, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 317 (2003) 21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304113
abstract: We consider asymptotic behaviour of a Hadamard walk on a cycle. For a walk which starts with a state in which all the probability is concentrated on one node, we find the explicit formula for the limiting distribution and discuss its asymptotic behaviour when the length of the cycle tends to infinity. We also demonstrate that for a carefully chosen initial state, the limiting distribution of a quantum walk on cycle can lie further away from the uniform distribution than its initial state.

id: quant-ph/0304114
title: Numerical simulations of a quantum algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem
authors: Tien D Kieu
comments: Oral contribution to SPIE, Orlando, 2003. 7 pages, 6 colour figures
journal: in Proceedings of SPIE Vol. 5105 Quantum Information and Computation, edited by Eric Donkor, Andrew R. Pirich, Howard E. Brandt, (SPIE, Bellingham, WA, 2003), pp. 89-95.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304114
abstract: We employ quantum mechanical principles in the computability exploration of the class of classically noncomputable Hilbert's tenth problem which is equivalent to the Turing halting problem in Computer Science. The Quantum Adiabatic Theorem enables us to establish a connection between the solution for this class of problems and the asymptotic behaviour of solutions of a particular type of time-dependent Schr\"odinger equations. We then present some preliminary numerical simulation results for the quantum adiabatic processes corresponding to various Diophantine equations.

id: quant-ph/0304115
title: The Innsbruck EPR Experiment: A Time-Retarded Local Description of Space-like Separated Correlations
authors: Michael Clover
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; added reference to prism models, improved quality of figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304115
abstract: A local, time-retarded hidden variable model is described that fits the recently measured EPR data from the Innsbruck collaboration. The model is based on the idea that waves in the zero-point field convey information from the detectors to the source, stimulating the spontaneous emission of photons with definite polarizations. In order to match experimental data, the model is augmented with a further local assumption that the ``master'' photon (going back along the direction of the zero-point wave that triggered emission) will not be detected if the polarizer is not in the same orientation as the stimulated wave. This model predicts a ratio of coincidences to singles of 1/3 compared to standard quantum mechanics' 2/3 for the 2-fold choice of modulator settings, and predicts that a 20-fold choice of settings will yield a coincidence ratio of 1/40 with the SQM ratio unchanged. Such an outcome should be easily distinguishable given the Innsbruck group's measured efficiency of 1/20 in their experiment. This model also predicts that a coincidence at polarizer settings (a,b,t) will never be correlated with its time-retarded complement setting, (a',b',t-2L/c), a prediction for whose test the limited data publicly available at this time is inadequate.

id: quant-ph/0304116
title: Relativistic entanglement of Bell states with general momentum
authors: Young Hoon Moon, Doyeol Ahn, Sung Woo Hwang
comments: 
journal: Progress of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 112, pp. 219-240 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304116
abstract: In this paper, the Lorentz transformation of the entangled Bell states with momentum, not necessarily orthogonal to the boost direction, and spin, is studied. We extended quantum correlations and Bell's inequality to the relativistic regime by considering normalized relativistic observables. It is shown that quantum information, along the perpendicular direction to the boost, is eventually lost and Bell's inequality is not always violated for entangled states in special relativity. This could impose restrictions to certain quantum information processing such as quantum cryptography using massive particles.

id: quant-ph/0304117
title: Minimum-error discrimination between symmetric mixed quantum states
authors: Chih-Lung Chou, Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physical Review A 68, 042305 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304117
abstract: We provide a solution of finding optimal measurement strategy for distinguishing between symmetric mixed quantum states. It is assumed that the matrix elements of at least one of the symmetric quantum states are all real and nonnegative in the basis of the eigenstates of the symmetry operator.

id: quant-ph/0304118
title: Dual Algebraic Pairs and Polynomial Lie Algebras in Quantum Physics: Foundations and Geometric Aspects
authors: V. P. Karassiov
comments: 10 pages, LATEX; submitted to Proceedings of the Workshop "Contemporary Geometry and Related Topics" (Belgrade, May 15-21, 2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304118
abstract: We discuss some aspects and examples of applications of dual algebraic pairs $({\cal G}_1,{\cal G}_2)$ in quantum many-body physics. They arise in models whose Hamiltonians $H$ have invariance groups $G_i$. Then one can take ${\cal G}_1 = G_i$ whereas another dual partner ${\cal G}_2= g^D$ is generated by $G_i$ invariants, possesses a Lie-algebraic structure and describes dynamic symmetry of models; herewith polynomial Lie algebras $\hat g = g^D$ appear in models with essentially nonlinear Hamiltonians. Such an approach leads to a geometrization of model kinematics and dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0304119
title: Is quantum entanglement invariant in special relativity?
authors: D. Ahn, H. J. Lee, S. W. Hwang, M. S. Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304119
abstract: Quantum entanglements are of fundamental importance in quantum physics ranging from the quantum information processing to the physics of black hole. Here, we show that the quantum entanglement is not invariant in special relativity. This suggests that nearly all aspects of quantum information processing would be affected significantly when relativistic effects are considered because present schemes are based on the general assumption that entanglement is invariant. There should be additional protocols to compensate the variances of entanglement in in quantum information processing. Furthermore, extending our results to general relativity may provide clues to the fate of the information contained in an entangled Hawking pair inside and outside the event horizon as black hole evaporates.

id: quant-ph/0304120
title: Photon polarization and Wigner's little group
authors: Pawel Caban, Jakub Rembielinski
comments: Version published in Phys. Rev. A, few typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042107 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304120
abstract: To discuss one-photon polarization states we find an explicit form of the Wigner's little group element in the massless case for arbitrary Lorentz transformation. As is well known, when analyzing the transformation properties of the physical states, only the value of the phase factor is relevant. We show that this phase factor depends only on the direction of the momentum $\vec{k}/|\vec{k}|$ and does not depend on the frequency $k^0$. Finally, we use this observation to discuss the transformation properties of the linearly polarized photons and the corresponding reduced density matrix. We find that they transform properly under Lorentz group.

id: quant-ph/0304121
title: Efficient photon counting and single-photon generation using resonant nonlinear optics
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304121
abstract: The behavior of an atomic double lambda system in the presence of a strong off-resonant classical field and a few-photon resonant quantum field is examined. It is shown that the system possesses properties that allow a single-photon state to be distilled from a multi-photon input wave packet. In addition, the system is also capable of functioning as an efficient photodetector discriminating between one- and two-photon wave packets with arbitrarily high efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0304122
title: Simulatings POVMs on EPR pairs with six bits of expected communication
authors: A. A. Methot
comments: 3 pages, short note
journal: Slightly improved version in: European Physical Journal D, vol 29, pp 445-446 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304122
abstract: We present a classical protocol for simulating correlations obtained by bipartite POVMs on an EPR pair. The protocol uses shared random variables (also known as local hidden variables) augmented by six bits of expected communication.

id: quant-ph/0304123
title: Direct estimation of functionals of density operators by local operations and classical communication
authors: Carolina Moura Alves, Pawel Horodecki, Daniel K. L. Oi, L. C. Kwek, Artur K. Ekert
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304123
abstract: We present a method of determining important properties of a shared bipartite quantum state, within the ``distant labs'' paradigm, using \emph{only} local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We apply this procedure to spectrum estimation of shared states, and locally implementable structural physical approximations to incompletely positive maps. This procedure can also be applied to the estimation of channel capacity and measures of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0304124
title: Disturbance of operation in quantum estimation for the Gaussian P-function
authors: Yoshiyuki Tsuda, Keiji Matsumoto, Masahito Hayashi
comments: latex2e, 13 pages, 2 figures, submitted to J. Japan Statist. Soc. on 20 Mar 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304124
abstract: For the quantum Gaussian state family, Hayashi proposed a quantum mechanical operation using beam splitters to estimate the location and scale parameters of the P-function, and he showed that it is asymptotically optimal. In this paper, we analyze the effect of disturbance of his operation caused by the randomness of the transparency of the beam splitters. It is shown that even if the variance of the random transparency is small, Hayashi's estimators are improper in a sense that they are biased and asymptotically inconsistent. In such a case, we propose to stop the operation and correct the biases of estimators.

id: quant-ph/0304125
title: The Clifford group, stabilizer states, and linear and quadratic operations over GF(2)
authors: Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042318 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304125
abstract: We describe stabilizer states and Clifford group operations using linear operations and quadratic forms over binary vector spaces. We show how the n-qubit Clifford group is isomorphic to a group with an operation that is defined in terms of a (2n+1)x(2n+1) binary matrix product and binary quadratic forms. As an application we give two schemes to efficiently decompose Clifford group operations into one and two-qubit operations. We also show how the coefficients of stabilizer states and Clifford group operations in a standard basis expansion can be described by binary quadratic forms. Our results are useful for quantum error correction, entanglement distillation and possibly quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0304126
title: Optimal estimation of multiple phases
authors: Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304126
abstract: We study the issue of simultaneous estimation of several phase shifts induced by commuting operators on a quantum state. We derive the optimal positive operator-valued measure corresponding to the multiple-phase estimation. In particular, we discuss the explicit case of the optimal detection of double phase for a system of identical qutrits and generalise these results to optimal multiple phase detection for d-dimensional quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0304127
title: The private classical capacity and quantum capacity of a quantum channel
authors: I. Devetak
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX. Some errors in Chapter 4 and Appendix C corrected. More typos corrected. Appendix C improved. to appear in IEEE TIT
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304127
abstract: A formula for the capacity of a quantum channel for transmitting private classical information is derived. This is shown to be equal to the capacity of the channel for generating a secret key, and neither capacity is enhanced by forward public classical communication. Motivated by the work of Schumacher and Westmoreland on quantum privacy and quantum coherence, parallels between private classical information and quantum information are exploited to obtain an expression for the capacity of a quantum channel for generating pure bipartite entanglement. The latter implies a new proof of the quantum channel coding theorem and a simple proof of the converse. The coherent information plays a role in all of the above mentioned capacities.

id: quant-ph/0304128
title: Transcending the Limits of Turing Computability
authors: Vadim A. Adamyan, Cristian S. Calude, Boris S. Pavlov
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304128
abstract: Hypercomputation or super-Turing computation is a ``computation'' that transcends the limit imposed by Turing's model of computability. The field still faces some basic questions, technical (can we mathematically and/or physically build a hypercomputer?), cognitive (can hypercomputers realize the AI dream?), philosophical (is thinking more than computing?). The aim of this paper is to address the question: can we mathematically build a hypercomputer? We will discuss the solutions of the Infinite Merchant Problem, a decision problem equivalent to the Halting Problem, based on results obtained in \cite{Coins,acp}. The accent will be on the new computational technique and results rather than formal proofs.

id: quant-ph/0304129
title: The charge-dyon bound system in the spherical quantum well
authors: L.G. Mardoyan, L.S. Petrosyan, H.A. Sarkisyan
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304129
abstract: The spherical wave functions of charge-dyon bounded system in a rectangular spherical quantum dot of infinitely and finite height are calculated. The transcendent equations, defining the energy spectra of the systems are obtained. The dependence of the energy levels from the wall sizes is found.

id: quant-ph/0304130
title: Perturbative Formulation and Non-adiabatic Corrections in Adiabatic Quantum Computing Schemes
authors: Yu Shi, Yong-Shi Wu
comments: 5 pages, revtex. some references added
journal: Phy. Rev. A 69, 024301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304130
abstract: Adiabatic limit is the presumption of the adiabatic geometric quantum computation and of the adiabatic quantum algorithm. But in reality, the variation speed of the Hamiltonian is finite. Here we develop a general formulation of adiabatic quantum computing, which accurately describes the evolution of the quantum state in a perturbative way, in which the adiabatic limit is the zeroth-order approximation. As an application of this formulation, non-adiabatic correction or error is estimated for several physical implementations of the adiabatic geometric gates. A quantum computing process consisting of many adiabatic gate operations is considered, for which the total non-adiabatic error is found to be about the sum of those of all the gates. This is a useful constraint on the computational power. The formalism is also briefly applied to the adiabatic quantum algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0304131
title: Quantum Evaluation of Multi-Valued Boolean Functions
authors: Kazuo Iwama, Akinori Kawachi, Hiroyuki Masuda, Raymond H. Putra, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304131
abstract: Our problem is to evaluate a multi-valued Boolean function $F$ through oracle calls. If $F$ is one-to-one and the size of its domain and range is the same, then our problem can be formulated as follows: Given an oracle $f(a,x): \{0,1\}^n\times\{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}$ and a fixed (but hidden) value $a_0$, we wish to obtain the value of $a_0$ by querying the oracle $f(a_0,x)$. Our goal is to minimize the number of such oracle calls (the query complexity) using a quantum mechanism. Two popular oracles are the EQ-oracle defined as $f(a,x)=1$ iff $x=a$ and the IP-oracle defined as $f(a,x)= a\cdot x \mod 2$. It is also well-known that the query complexity is $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$ ($N=2^n$) for the EQ-oracle while only O(1) for the IP-oracle. The main purpose of this paper is to fill this gap or to investigate what causes this large difference. To do so, we introduce a parameter $K$ as the maximum number of 1's in a single column of $T_f$ where $T_f$ is the $N\times N$ truth-table of the oracle $f(a,x)$. Our main result shows that the (quantum) query complexity is heavily governed by this parameter $K$: ($i$) The query complexity is $\Omega(\sqrt{N/K})$. ($ii$) This lower bound is tight in the sense that we can construct an explicit oracle whose query complexity is $O(\sqrt{N/K})$. ($iii$) The tight complexity, $\Theta(\frac{N}{K}+\log{K})$, is also obtained for the classical case. Thus, the quantum algorithm needs a quadratically less number of oracle calls when $K$ is small and this merit becomes larger when $K$ is large, e.g., $\log{K}$ v.s. constant when $K = cN$.

id: quant-ph/0304132
title: Entangled subspaces and quantum symmetries
authors: A.J. Bracken
comments: Latex2e file, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304132
abstract: Entanglement is defined for each vector subspace of the tensor product of two finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, by applying the notion of operator entanglement to the projection operator onto that subspace. The operator Schmidt decomposition of the projection operator defines a string of Schmidt coefficients for each subspace, and this string is assumed to characterize the entanglement of the subspace, so that a first subspace is more entangled than a second, if the Schmidt string of the second subspace majorizes the Schmidt string of the first. The idea is applied to the antisymmetric and symmetric tensor products of a finite-dimensional Hilbert space with itself, and also to the tensor product of an angular momentum j with a spin 1/2. When adapted to the subspaces of states of the nonrelativistic hydrogen atom with definite total angular momentum (orbital plus spin), within the space of bound states with a given total energy, this leads to a complete ordering of those subspaces by their Schmidt strings.

id: quant-ph/0304133
title: A de Broglie-Bohm Like Model for Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: O. Chavoya-Aceves
comments: 9pages, LaTex, hypothesis are relaxed for the low-speed limit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304133
abstract: A de Broglie-Bohm like model of Klein-Gordon equation, that leads to the correct Schrodinger equation in the low-speed limit, is presented. Under this theoretical framework, that affords an interpretation of the quantum potential, the main assumption of the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation--that the local momentum of particles is given by the gradient of the phase of the wave function--is not but approximately correct. Also, the number of particles is not locally conserved. Furthermore, the representation of physical systems through wave functions wont be complete.

id: quant-ph/0304134
title: Comment on "Propagator of two coupled general driven time-dependent oscillators" by C. F. Lo and Y. J.Wong
authors: F. Benamira, L. Guechi
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 60 (2002) 649-650
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304134
abstract: We comment on several incorrect results given in a recent paper by Lo and Wong. In particular, it is pointed out that their evaluation of the propagator for two coupled general driven time-dependent oscillators is not satisfactory. The correct expression can be obtained by applying an appropriate time-dependent canonical transformation.

id: quant-ph/0304135
title: Creation of maximally entangled photon-number states using optical fiber multiports
authors: G. J. Pryde, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. REVTeX4. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A68:052315,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304135
abstract: We theoretically demonstrate a method for producing the maximally path-entangled state (1/Sqrt[2]) (|N,0> + exp[iN phi] |0,N>) using intensity-symmetric multiport beamsplitters, single photon inputs, and either photon-counting postselection or conditional measurement. The use of postselection enables successful implementation with non-unit efficiency detectors. We also demonstrate how to make the same state more conveniently by replacing one of the single photon inputs by a coherent state.

id: quant-ph/0304136
title: Beyond Quantum Computation and Towards Quantum Field Computation
authors: A. C. Manoharan
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304136
abstract: Because the subject of relativistic quantum field theory (QFT) contains all of non-relativistic quantum mechanics, we expect quantum field computation to contain (non-relativistic) quantum computation. Although we do not yet have a quantum theory of the gravitational field, and are far from a practical implementation of a quantum field computer, some pieces of the puzzle (without gravity) are now available. We consider a general model for computation with quantum field theory, and obtain some results for relativistic quantum computation. Moreover, it is possible to see new connections between principal models of computation, namely, computation over the continuum and computation over the integers (Turing computation). Thus we identify a basic problem in QFT, namely Wightman's computation problem for domains of holomorphy, which we call WHOLO. Inspired by the same analytic functions which are central to the famous CPT theorem of QFT, it is possible to obtain a computational complexity structure for QFT and shed new light on certain complexity classes for this problem WHOLO.

id: quant-ph/0304137
title: Quantum processes, space-time representation and brain dynamics
authors: Sisir Roy, Menas Kafatos
comments: Latex, 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304137
abstract: The recent controversy of applicability of quantum formalism to brain dynamics has been critically analysed. The prerequisites for any type of quantum formalism or quantum field theory is to investigate whether the anatomical structure of brain permits any kind of smooth geometric notion like Hilbert structure or four dimensional Minkowskian structure for quantum field theory. The present understanding of brain function clearly denies any kind of space-time representation in Minkowskian sense. However, three dimensional space and one time can be assigned to the neuromanifold and the concept of probabilistic geometry is shown to be appropriate framework to understand the brain dynamics. The possibility of quantum structure is also discussed in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0304138
title: Effects of Noisy Oracle on Search Algorithm Complexity
authors: Neil Shenvi, Kenneth R. Brown, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304138
abstract: Grover's algorithm provides a quadratic speed-up over classical algorithms for unstructured database or library searches. This paper examines the robustness of Grover's search algorithm to a random phase error in the oracle and analyzes the complexity of the search process as a function of the scaling of the oracle error with database or library size. Both the discrete- and continuous-time implementations of the search algorithm are investigated. It is shown that unless the oracle phase error scales as O(N^(-1/4)), neither the discrete- nor the continuous-time implementation of Grover's algorithm is scalably robust to this error in the absence of error correction.

id: quant-ph/0304139
title: Quantum hamiltonians and prime numbers
authors: H.C. Rosu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, accepted as a Brief Review at MPLA
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 18 (2003) 1205-1213
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304139
abstract: A short review of Schroedinger hamiltonians for which the spectral problem has been related in the literature to the distribution of the prime numbers is presented here. We notice a possible connection between prime numbers and centrifugal inversions in black holes and suggest that this remarkable link could be directly studied within trapped Bose-Einstein condensates. In addition, when referring to the factorizing operators of Pitkanen and Castro and collaborators, we perform a mathematical extension allowing a more standard supersymmetric approach

id: quant-ph/0304140
title: Quantum Joint Distributions
authors: Todd A. Oliynyk
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304140
abstract: In this paper we provide a method for constructing joint distributions for an arbitrary set of observables on finite dimensional Hilbert spaces irrespective of whether the observables commute or not. These distributions have a number of desirable properties: they agree with the standard quantum mechanical ones if the observables commute, they also depend continuously on the observables, and under unitary transformations they behave in a reasonable manner.

id: quant-ph/0304141
title: Deterministic secure communication protocol without using entanglement
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: This is an advanced version of quant-ph/0304033
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21(4),601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304141
abstract: We show a deterministic secure direct communication protocol using single qubit in mixed state. The security of this protocol is based on the security proof of BB84 protocol. It can be realized with current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0304142
title: Algorithm of Reduction
authors: N.K.Solovarov
comments: 22 pages, no figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304142
abstract: We show that the von Neumann's algorithm of reduction (i.e. the algorithm of calculating the density matrix of the observable subsystem from the density matrix of the closed quantum system) corresponds to the special approximation at which the unobservable subsystem is supposed to be in the steady state of minimum information (infinite temperature). We formulate the generalized algorithm of reduction that includes as limiting cases the von Neumann's reduction and the self-congruent correlated reduction most corresponding to the quantum nondemolition measurement. We demonstrate the correlation in dynamics of subsystems with exactly soluble models of quantum optics: 1) about the dynamics of a pair of interacting two-level atoms, and 2) about the dynamics of a two-level atom interacting with a single-mode resonant field.

id: quant-ph/0304143
title: Duality, Quantum Mechanics and (Almost) Complex Manifolds
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A18 (2003) 1975-1990
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304143
abstract: The classical mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom requires a symplectic structure on phase space C, but it is independent of any complex structure. On the contrary, the quantum theory is intimately linked with the choice of a complex structure on C. When the latter is a complex-analytic manifold admitting just one complex structure, there is a unique quantisation whose classical limit is C. Then the notion of coherence is the same for all observers. However, when C admits two or more nonbiholomorphic complex structures, there is one different quantisation per different complex structure on C. The lack of analyticity in transforming between nonbiholomorphic complex structures can be interpreted as the loss of quantum-mechanical coherence under the corresponding transformation. Observers using one complex structure perceive as coherent the states that other observers, using a different complex structure, do not perceive as such. This is the notion of a quantum-mechanical duality transformation: the relativity of the notion of a quantum.

id: quant-ph/0304144
title: Supersymmetric manipulation of quasienergy states. Application to the Berry phase
authors: B.F. Samsonov, M.L. Glasser, L.M. Nieto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Gen. 2003, V. 36, L585-L591
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304144
abstract: Time-dependent supersymmetry allows one to delete quasienergy levels for time-periodic Hamiltonians and to create new ones. We illustrate this by examining an exactly solvable model related to the simple harmonic oscillator with a time-varying frequency. For an interesting nonharmonic example we present the change of the Berry phase due to a supersymmetry transformation.

id: quant-ph/0304145
title: Quantum operation, quantum Fourier transform and semi-definite programming
authors: Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 16 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 323(2004)48
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304145
abstract: We analyze a class of quantum operations based on a geometrical representation of $d-$level quantum system (or qudit for short). A sufficient and necessary condition of complete positivity, expressed in terms of the quantum Fourier transform, is found for this class of operations. A more general class of operations on qudits is also considered and its completely positive condition is reduced to the well-known semi-definite programming problem.

id: quant-ph/0304146
title: Solving a Maze With a Quantum Computer
authors: Mark A Bashuk
comments: 3 Pages, To be presented to the Senior Project Boards on May 9th
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304146
abstract: It is well known, and appreciated, that quantum computers have the potential to be the most powerful computational devices ever created. This newfound power comes from a quantum parallelism effect that allows the computer to be in multiple states at the same time. This property of quantum parallelism, while suited to handle common problems such as factoring and searching an unorganized database, is extremely well-suited to handle the task of solving a binary maze. I propose an algorithm that can be used to solve a binary maze on a quantum computer, with guaranteed accuracy. While it does work, it does come with a few setbacks, in that the maze must have no flaws, and that the computer requires a number of qubits equal to the number of decisions in the maze, plus log 2 of the decisions.

id: quant-ph/0304147
title: S-matrix theory for transmission through billiards in tight-binding approach
authors: Almas F. Sadreev, Ingrid Rotter
comments: 29 pages, 9 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. and Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304147
abstract: In the tight-binding approximation we consider multi-channel transmission through a billiard coupled to leads. Following Dittes we derive the coupling matrix, the scattering matrix and the effective Hamiltonian, but take into account the energy restriction of the conductance band. The complex eigenvalues of the effective Hamiltonian define the poles of the scattering matrix. For some simple cases, we present exact values for the poles. We derive also the condition for the appearance of double poles.

id: quant-ph/0304148
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Teleportation with a Conventional Laser (Rev. Ver.)
authors: Mikio Fujii
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. This is a revised version of quant-ph/0301045. I have not replaced that original version with this revised one so that readers can easily verify priority of ideas first presented in the original version in every arXiv mirror site. I changed the part referring to the papers by van Enk and Fuchs, emphasizing a fundamental difference in claims between their papers and mine
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 050302(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304148
abstract: We give a description of balanced homodyne detection (BHD) using a conventional laser as a local oscillator (LO), where the laser field outside the cavity is a mixed state whose phase is completely unknown. Our description is based on the standard interpretation of the quantum theory for measurement, and accords with the experimental result in the squeezed state generation scheme. We apply our description of BHD to continuous-variable quantum teleportation (CVQT) with a conventional laser to analyze the CVQT experiment [A. Furusawa et al., Science 282, 706 (1998)], whose validity has been questioned on the ground of intrinsic phase indeterminacy of the laser field [T. Rudolph and B.C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 077903 (2001)]. We show that CVQT with a laser is valid only if the unknown phase of the laser field is shared among sender's LOs, the EPR state, and receiver's LO. The CVQT experiment is considered valid with the aid of an optical path other than the EPR channel and a classical channel, directly linking between a sender and a receiver. We also propose a method to probabilistically generate a strongly phase-correlated quantum state via continuous measurement of independent lasers, which is applicable to realizing CVQT without the additional optical path.

id: quant-ph/0304149
title: About Covariant Quartit Cloning Machines
authors: Thomas Durt, Bob Nagler
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, revtex format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304149
abstract: The study of quantum cryptography and quantum entanglement has traditionally been based on two-level quantum systems (qubits) and more recently on three-level systems (qutrits). We investigate several classes of state-dependent quantum cloners for four-level systems (quartits). These results apply to symmetric as well as asymmetric cloners, so that the balance between the fidelity of the two clones can also be analyzed. We extend Cerf's formalism for cloning states in order to derive cloning machines that remain invariant under certain unitary transformations. Our results show that a different cloner has to be used for two mutually unbiased bases which are related by a double Hadamard transformation, than for two mutually unbiased bases that are related by a Fourier transformation. This different cloner is obtained thanks to a redefinition of Bell states that respects the intrinsic symmetries of the Hadamard transformation.

id: quant-ph/0304150
title: Robust Quantum Computation with Quantum Dots
authors: C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304150
abstract: Quantum computation in solid state quantum dots faces two significant challenges: Decoherence from interactions with the environment and the difficulty of generating local magnetic fields for the single qubit rotations. This paper presents a design of composite qubits to overcome both challenges. Each qubit is encoded in the degenerate ground-state of four (or six) electrons in a system of five quantum dots arranged in a two-dimensional pattern. This decoherence-free subspace is immune to both collective and local decoherence, and resists other forms of decoherence, which must raise the energy. The gate operations for universal computation are simple and physically intuitive, and are controlled by modifying the tunneling barriers between the dots--Control of local magnetic fields is not required. A controlled-phase gate can be implemented in a single pulse.

id: quant-ph/0304151
title: Mode Entanglement and Entangling power in Bosonic Graphs
authors: Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: LaTeX, 15 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304151
abstract: We analyze the quantum entanglement properties of bosonic particles hopping over graph structures.Mode-entanglement of a graph vertex with respect the rest of the graph is generated, starting from a product state, by turning on for a finite time a tunneling along the graph edges. The maximum achieved during the dynamical evolution by this bi-partite entanglement characterizes the entangling power of a given hopping hamiltonian. We studied this entangling power as a function of the self-interaction parameters i.e., non-linearities, for all the graphs up to four vertices and for two different natural choices of the initial state. The role of graph topology and self-interaction strengths in optimizing entanglement generation is extensively studied by means of exact numerical simulations and by perturbative calculations.

id: quant-ph/0304152
title: Exceptional Points of Non-hermitian Operators
authors: W.D. Heiss
comments: 8 pages, Latex, four figures, submitted to EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304152
abstract: Exceptional points associated with non-hermitian operators, i.e. operators being non-hermitian for real parameter values, are investigated. The specific characteristics of the eigenfunctions at the exceptional point are worked out. Within the domain of real parameters the exceptional points are the points where eigenvalues switch from real to complex values. These and other results are exemplified by a classical problem leading to exceptional points of a non-hermitian matrix.

id: quant-ph/0304153
title: Permutationally Invariant Codes for Quantum Error Correction
authors: Harriet Pollatsek, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Final version to appear in Lin. Alg. Appl. differs from version 2 only in minor reorganization of section 5.4
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 392, 255--288 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304153
abstract: A permutationally invariant n-bit code for quantum error correction can be realized as a subspace stabilized by the non-Abelian group S_n. The code corresponds to bases for the trivial representation, and all other irreducible representations, both those of higher dimension and orthogonal bases for the trivial representation, are available for error correction. A number of new (non-additive) binary codes are obtained, including two new 7-bit codes and a large family of new 9-bit codes. It is shown that the degeneracy arising from permutational symmetry facilitates the correction of certain types of two-bit errors. The correction of two-bit errors of the same type is considered in detail, but is shown not to be compatible with single-bit error correction using 9-bit codes.

id: quant-ph/0304154
title: Partial Wave Analysis of Scattering with Nonlocal Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: de-Hone Lin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304154
abstract: Partial wave theory of a two dimensional scattering problem for an arbitray short range potential and a nonlocal Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux is established. The scattering process of a ``hard disk'' like potential and the magnetic flux is examined. Since the nonlocal influence of magnetic flux on the charged particles is universal, the nonlocal effect in hard disk case is expected to appear in quite general potential system and will be useful in understanding some phenomena in mesoscopic phyiscs.

id: quant-ph/0304155
title: Rotational master equation for cold laser-driven molecules
authors: A. Adelswaerd, S. Wallentowitz, W. Vogel
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304155
abstract: The equations of motion for the molecular rotation are derived for vibrationally cold dimers that are polarized by off-resonant laser light. It is shown that, by eliminating electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom, a quantum master equation for the reduced rotational density operator can be obtained. The coherent rotational dynamics is caused by stimulated Raman transitions, whereas spontaneous Raman transitions lead to decoherence in the motion of the quantized angular momentum. As an example the molecular dynamics for the optical Kerr effect is chosen, revealing decoherence and heating of the molecular rotation.

id: quant-ph/0304156
title: Testing Bell's inequality and measuring the entanglement using superconducting nanocircuits
authors: Guang-Ping He, Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang, Hua-Zhong Li
comments: 6 pages; Typos in Eqs. (8) and (9) in the published version were corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012315 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304156
abstract: An experimental scheme is proposed to test Bell's inequality by using superconducting nanocircuits. In this scheme, quantum entanglement of a pair of charge qubits separated in a sufficient long distance may be created by cavity quantum electrodynamic techniques; the population of qubits is experimentally measurable by dc currents through the probe junctions, and one measured outcome may be recorded for every experiment. Therefore, both locality and detection efficiency loopholes should be closed in the same experiment. We also propose a useful method to measure the amount of entanglement based on the concurrence between Josephson qubits. The measurable variables for Bell's inequality as well as the entanglement are expressed in terms of a useful phase-space Q function.

id: quant-ph/0304157
title: On the quantum phase problem
authors: J.M. Vargas-Martinez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: J. of Optics B 6, S155-S157 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304157
abstract: We present a phase formalism that passes the Barnett-Pegg acid test, i.e. phase fluctuations for a number state are the expected value $\pi^2/3$ which are the fluctuations for a classical random phase distribution. The formalism is shown to have consistency subjected to different approaches.

id: quant-ph/0304158
title: What is actually teleported?
authors: Asher Peres
comments: preliminary version, to be submitted to IBM Journal of R&D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304158
abstract: There are no ``unknown quantum states.'' It's a contradiction in terms. Moreover, Alice and Bob are only inanimate objects. They know nothing. What is teleported instantaneously from one system (Alice) to another system (Bob) is the applicability of the preparer's knowledge to the state of a particular qubit in these systems. The operation necessitates dual classical and quantum channels. Other examples of dual transmission, including ``unspeakable information,'' will be presented and discussed. This article also includes a narrative of how I remember that quantum teleportation was conceived.

id: quant-ph/0304159
title: Quantum information processing, operational quantum logic, convexity, and the foundations of physics
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: 38 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304159
abstract: Quantum information science is a source of task-related axioms whose consequences can be explored in general settings encompassing quantum mechanics, classical theory, and more. Quantum states are compendia of probabilities for the outcomes of possible operations we may perform a system: ``operational states.'' I discuss general frameworks for ``operational theories'' (sets of possible operational states of a system), in which convexity plays key role. The main technical content of the paper is in a theorem that any such theory naturally gives rise to a ``weak effect algebra'' when outcomes having the same probability in all states are identified, and in the introduction of a notion of ``operation algebra'' that also takes account of sequential and conditional operations. Such frameworks are appropriate for investigating what things look like from an ``inside view,'' i.e. for describing perspectival information that one subsystem of the world can have about another. Understanding how such views can combine, and whether an overall ``geometric'' picture (``outside view'') coordinating them all can be had, even if this picture is very different in structure from the perspectives within it, is the key to whether we may be able to achieve a unified, ``objective'' physical view in which quantum mechanics is the appropriate description for certain perspectives, or whether quantum mechanics is truly telling us we must go beyond this ``geometric'' conception of physics.

id: quant-ph/0304160
title: Demonstration of Dispersion-Cancelled Quantum-Optical Coherence Tomography
authors: Magued B. Nasr, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304160
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of quantum optical coherence tomography (QOCT). The technique makes use of an entangled twin-photon light source to carry out axial optical sectioning. QOCT is compared to conventional optical co1herence tomography (OCT). The immunity of QOCT to dispersion, as well as a factor of two enhancement in resolution, are experimentally demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0304161
title: Sparse Graph Codes for Quantum Error-Correction
authors: David J.C. MacKay, Graeme Mitchison, Paul L. McFadden
comments: Version 7.3e: 42 pages. Extended version, Feb 2004. A shortened version was resubmitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Jan 20, 2004
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 50, No. 10, p. 2315 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304161
abstract: We present sparse graph codes appropriate for use in quantum error-correction. Quantum error-correcting codes based on sparse graphs are of interest for three reasons. First, the best codes currently known for classical channels are based on sparse graphs. Second, sparse graph codes keep the number of quantum interactions associated with the quantum error correction process small: a constant number per quantum bit, independent of the blocklength. Third, sparse graph codes often offer great flexibility with respect to blocklength and rate. We believe some of the codes we present are unsurpassed by previously published quantum error-correcting codes.

id: quant-ph/0304162
title: A quantum lower bound for the collision problem
authors: Samuel Kutin
comments: 6 pages Extension of work in quant-ph/0112086
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304162
abstract: We extend Shi's 2002 quantum lower bound for collision in $r$-to-one functions with $n$ inputs. Shi's bound of $\Omega((n/r)^{1/3})$ is tight, but his proof applies only in the case where the range has size at least $3n/2$. We give a modified version of Shi's argument which removes this restriction.

id: quant-ph/0304163
title: Faraday spectroscopy in an optical lattice: a continuous probe of atom dynamics
authors: Greg Smith, Souma Chaudhury, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to J. Opt. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304163
abstract: The linear Faraday effect is used to implement a continuous measurement of the spin of a sample of laser cooled atoms trapped in an optical lattice. One of the optical lattice beams serves also as a probe beam, thereby allowing one to monitor the atomic dynamics in real time and with minimal perturbation. A simple theory is developed to predict the measurement sensitivity and associated cost in terms of decoherence caused by the scattering of probe photons. Calculated signal-to-noise ratios in measurements of Larmor precession are found to agree with experimental data for a wide range of lattice intensity and detuning. Finally, quantum backaction is estimated by comparing the measurement sensitivity to spin projection noise, and shown to be insignificant in the current experiment. A continuous quantum measurement based on Faraday spectroscopy in optical lattices may open up new possibilities for the study of quantum feedback and classically chaotic quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0304164
title: Teleportation-based number state manipulation with number sum measurement
authors: Akira Kitagawa, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Misprints are corrected. 3 figures for number sum measurement are added. Discussion on manipulations are expanded. Calculations for success probabilities are added. Fig.4 is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304164
abstract: We examine various manipulations of photon number states which can be implemented by teleportation technique with number sum measurement. The preparations of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen resources as well as the number sum measurement resulting in projection to certain Bell state may be done conditionally with linear optical elements, i.e., beam splitters, phase shifters and zero-one-photon detectors. Squeezed vacuum states are used as primary entanglement resource, while single-photon sources are not required.

id: quant-ph/0304165
title: Quantum teleportation using cluster states
authors: B. Zeng, D.L. Zhou, Z. Xu, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304165
abstract: A protocol of quantum communication is proposed in terms of the multi-qubit quantum teleportation through cluster states (Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{86}, 910 (2001)). Extending the cluster state based quantum teleportation on the basic unit of three qubits (or qudits), the corresponding multi-qubit network is constructed for both the qubits and qudits (multi-level) cases. The classical information costs to complete this communication task is also analyzed. It is also shown that this quantum communication protocol can be implemented in the spin-spin system on lattices.

id: quant-ph/0304166
title: Photon filters in a microwave cavity
authors: J. Larson, S. Stenholm
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 50, 2705 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304166
abstract: In an earlier paper we have concluded that time-dependent parameters in atom-mode interaction can be utilized to modify the quantum field in a cavity. When an atom shoots through the cavity field, it is expected to experience a trigonometric time dependence of its coupling constant. We investigate the possibilities this offers to modify the field. As a point of comparison we use the solvable Rosen-Zener model, which has parameter dependencies roughly similar to the ones expected in a real cavity. We do confirm that by repeatedly sending atoms through the cavity, we can obtain filters on the photon states. Highly non-classical states can be obtained. We find that the Rosen-Zener model is more sensitive to the detuning than the case of a trigonometric coupling.

id: quant-ph/0304167
title: Nonlinear Dirac equations and nonlinear gauge transformations
authors: H.-D. Doebner, R. Zhdanov
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304167
abstract: Nonlinear Dirac equations (NLDE) are derived through a group N^2 of nonlinear (gauge) transformation acting in the corresponding state space. The construction generalises a construction for nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations. To relate N^2 with physically motivated principles we assume: locality (i.e. it contains no explicit derivative and no derivatives of the wave function), separability (i.e. it acts on product states componentwise) and Poincar\'e invariance. Furthermore we want that a positional density is invariant under N^2. Such nonlinear transformations yield NLDE which describe physically equivalent systems. To get 'new' systems, we extend this NLDE (gauge extension) and present a family of NLDE which is a slight nonlinear generalisation of the Dirac equation. We discuss and comment the fact that nonlinear evolutions are not consistent with the usual framework of quantum theory. To develop a corresponding extended framework one needs models for nonlinear evolutions which also indicate possible physical consequences of nonlinearities.

id: quant-ph/0304168
title: Ion-trap quantum computing in the presence of cooling
authors: Almut Beige
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A, revised version, new title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012303 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304168
abstract: This paper discusses ways to implement two-qubit gate operations for quantum computing with cold trapped ions within one step. The proposed scheme is widely robust against parameter fluctuations and its simplicity might help to increase the number of qubits in present experiments. Basic idea is to use the quantum Zeno effect originating from continuous measurements on a common vibrational mode to realise gate operations with very high fidelities. The gate success rate can, in principle, be arbitrary high but operation times comparable to other schemes can only be obtained by accepting success rates below 80%.

id: quant-ph/0304169
title: Spin-based quantum gating with semiconductor quantum dots by bichromatic radiation method
authors: Mang Feng, Irene D'Amico, Paolo Zanardi, Fausto Rossi
comments: Europhysics Letters 66 (2004) 14
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304169
abstract: A potential scheme is proposed for realizing a two-qubit quantum gate in semiconductor quantum dots. Information is encoded in the spin degrees of freedom of one excess conduction electron of each quantum dot. We propose to use two lasers, radiation two neighboring QDs, and tuned to blue detuning with respect to the resonant frequencies of individual excitons. The two-qubit phase gate can be achieved by means of both Pauli-blocking effect and dipole-dipole coupling between intermediate excitonic states.

id: quant-ph/0304170
title: Multiparametric oscillator Hamiltonians with exact bound states in infinite-dimensional space
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 15 pp incl. 4 tables, presented during 24th Winter School ``Geometry and physics" (Srni, Czech Republic, Januar 17 - 24, 2004)
journal: Rendiconti del Circolo Matematico di Palermo, Ser. II, Suppl. 75 (2005) 333-346.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304170
abstract: Central D-dimensional Hamiltonians $H = p^2 + a |\vec{r}|^2 + b |\vec{r}|^4 + >... + z |\vec{r}|^{4q+2}$ (where z=1) are considered in the limit $D \to \infty$ where numerical experiments revealed recently a new class of q-parametric quasi-exact solutions at $q \leq 5$. We show how a systematic construction of these "privileged" exact bound states may be extended to much higher q (meaning an enhanced flexibility of the shape of the force) at a cost of narrowing the set of wavefunctions (with degree N restricted to the first few non-negative integers). At q=4K+3 we conjecture the validity of a closed formula for the N=3 solutions at all K.

id: quant-ph/0304171
title: A relativistic variant of the Wigner function
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: v3: as accepted by Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett. A321 (2004) 216-224
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304171
abstract: The conventional Wigner function is inappropriate in a quantum field theory setting because, as a quasiprobability density over phase space, it is not manifestly Lorentz covariant. A manifestly relativistic variant is constructed as a quasiprobability density over trajectories instead of over phase space.

id: quant-ph/0304172
title: Monomode photon spin operators projected onto the fixed frame and quantum-vacuum geometric phases of photons inside a noncoplanar optical fibre
authors: Jian-Qi Shen
comments: 13 pages, Latex. The present paper is a supplement to the two published papers: 1.Shen J Q, Zhu H Y 2003 Ann. Phys.(Leipzig) Vol.12 p.131-145; 2.Shen J Q, Ma L H 2003 Phys. Lett. A Vol.308 p.355-363. Also see: Quantum-vacuum geometric phases in the noncoplanarly curved fiber system, J.Q. Shen, The European Physical Journal D, vol. 30: 259-264 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304172
abstract: The propagation of monomode photons inside a coiled optical fibre was regarded as a time-dependent quantum evolution process, which gives rise to a geometric phase. It is well known that the investigation of non-adiabatic geometric phases ought to be performed only in the Schr\"{o}dinger picture. So, the projections of photon spin operators onto the fixed frame of reference is discussed in this paper. In addition, we also treat the non-normal-order spin operators and consider the potential effects (e.g., quantum-vacuum geometric phases) of quantum fluctuation fields arising in a curved optical fibre. The quantum-vacuum geometric phase, which is of physical interest, can be deducted by using the operator normal product, and the doubt of validity and universality for the normal-normal procedure applied to time-dependent quantum systems is thus proposed. In the Appendix, the discussion of possible experimental realizations of quantum-vacuum geometric phases is briefly presented.

id: quant-ph/0304173
title: Quantum information processing using Josephson junctions coupled through cavities
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang, Kaiyu Yang
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Phys Rev A; typos corrected, solutions in last eqs. corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 034303 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304173
abstract: Josephson junctions have been shown to be a promising solid-state system for implementation of quantum computation. The significant two-qubit gates are generally realized by the capacitive coupling between the nearest neighbour qubits. We propose an effective Hamiltonian to describe charge qubits coupled through the cavity. We find that nontrivial two-qubit gates may be achieved by this coupling. The ability to interconvert localized charge qubits and flying qubits in the proposed scheme implies that quantum network can be constructed using this large scalable solid-state system.

id: quant-ph/0304174
title: Universal quantum gates based on both geometric and dynamic phases in quantum dots
authors: Kaiyu Yang, Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Chin. Phys. Lett
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 20, 991 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304174
abstract: A large-scalable quantum computer model, whose qubits are represented by the subspace subtended by the ground state and the single exciton state on semiconductor quantum dots, is proposed. A universal set of quantum gates in this system may be achieved by a mixed approach, composed of dynamic evolution and nonadibatic geometric phase.

id: quant-ph/0304175
title: Optimal realization of the transposition maps
authors: F. Buscemi, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 10 pages. No figures. Elsart style
journal: Phys. Lett. A 314, 374 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304175
abstract: We solve the problem of achieving the optimal physical approximation of the transposition for pure states of arbitrary quantum systems for finite and infinite dimensions. A unitary realization is also given for any finite dimension, which provides the optimal quantum cloning map of the ancilla as well.

id: quant-ph/0304176
title: Violations of Bell inequalities as lower bounds on the communication cost of non-local correlations
authors: Stefano Pironio
comments: 9 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062102 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304176
abstract: To reproduce in a local hidden variables theory correlations that violate Bell inequalities, communication must occur between the parties. We show that the amount of violation of a Bell inequality imposes a lower bound on the average communication needed to produce these correlations. Moreover, for every probability distribution there exists an optimal inequality for which the degree of violation gives the minimal average communication. As an example, to produce using classical resources the correlations that maximally violate the CHSH inequality, 0.4142 bits of communication are necessary and sufficient. For Bell tests performed on two entangled states of dimension d>=3 where each party has the choice between two measurements, our results suggest that more communication is needed to simulate outcomes obtained from certain non-maximally entangled states than maximally entangled ones.

id: quant-ph/0304177
title: Blinking molecules: Determination of Photo-Physical Parameters from the Intensity Correlation Function
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Dirk Seidel
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 118, 7741 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304177
abstract: An explicit expression is given for the correlation function of blinking systems, i.e. systems exhibiting light and dark periods in their fluorescence. We show through the example of terrylene in a crystalline host that it is possible to determine by means of this explicit expression photo-physical parameters, like Einstein coefficients and the mean light and dark periods by a simple fit. In addition we obtain further parameters like the frequency of the various intensity periods and the probability density of photons scattered off the host crystal. It turns out that this approach is simpler and allows greater accuracy than previous procedures.

id: quant-ph/0304178
title: Non-Markovian Decay of a Three Level Cascade Atom in a Structured Reservoir
authors: B.J.Dalton, B.M.Garraway
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 033809 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304178
abstract: We present a formalism that enables the study of the non-Markovian dynamics of a three-level ladder system in a single structured reservoir. The three-level system is strongly coupled to a bath of reservoir modes and two quantum excitations of the reservoir are expected. We show that the dynamics only depends on reservoir structure functions, which are products of the mode density with the coupling constant squared. This result may enable pseudomode theory to treat multiple excitations of a structured reservoir. The treatment uses Laplace transforms and an elimination of variables to obtain a formal solution. This can be evaluated numerically (with the help of a numerical inverse Laplace transform) and an example is given. We also compare this result with the case where the two transitions are coupled to two separate structured reservoirs (where the example case is also analytically solvable).

id: quant-ph/0304179
title: Reduction Theorems for Optimal Unambiguous State Discrimination of Density Matrices
authors: Philippe Raynal, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Steven J. van Enk
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 68, 022308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304179
abstract: We present reduction theorems for the problem of optimal unambiguous state discrimination (USD) of two general density matrices. We show that this problem can be reduced to that of two density matrices that have the same rank $n$ and are described in a Hilbert space of dimensions $2n$. We also show how to use the reduction theorems to discriminate unambiguously between N mixed states (N \ge 2).

id: quant-ph/0304180
title: Control of conditional pattern with polarization entanglement
authors: D. P. Caetano, C. H. Monken, P.H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: Submitted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304180
abstract: Conditional interference patterns can be obtained with twin photons from spontaneous parametric down-conversion and the phase of the pattern can be controlled by the relative transverse position of the signal and idler detectors. Using a configuration that produces entangled photons in both polarization and transverse momentum we report on the control of the conditional patterns by acting on the polarization degree of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0304181
title: Measurement of one-photon and two-photon wavepackets in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Yoon-ho Kim
comments: 8 pages, two-column, to appear in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B vo. 20, p. 1959 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304181
abstract: One-photon and two-photon wavepackets of entangled two-photon states in spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) fields are calculated and measured experimentally. For type-II SPDC, measured one-photon and two-photon wavepackets agree well with theory. For type-I SPDC, the measured one-photon wavepacket agree with the theory. However, the two-photon wavepacket is much bigger than the expected value and the visibility of interference is low. We identify the sources of this discrepancy as the spatial filtering of the two-photon bandwidth and non-pair detection events caused by the detector apertures and the tuning curve characteristics of the type-I SPDC.

id: quant-ph/0304182
title: Quantum probability measures and tomographic probability densities
authors: G.G. Amosov, V.I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages; submitted to J. of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304182
abstract: Introduced recently approach based on tomographic probability distribution of quantum states is shown to be closely related with the known notion of the quantum probability measures discussed in quantum information theory and positive operator valued measures approach. Partial derivative of the distribution function of quantum probability measure associated with the homodyne quadrature (symplectic quantum measure) is shown to be equal the tomogram of the quantum state. Analogous relation of the spin tomogram to quantum probability measure associated with spin state is obtained. Star-product of symplectic quantum measures is studied. Evolution equation for symplectic quantum measures is derived.

id: quant-ph/0304183
title: On entanglement at tripartite states
authors: S. Bugajski, J. A. Miszczak
comments: 8 pages, twocolumn, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304183
abstract: Article presents general formulation of entanglement measures problem in terms of correlation function. Description of entanglement in probabilistic framework allow us to introduce new quantity which describes quantum and classical correlations. This formalism is applied to calculate bipartite and tripartite correlations in two special cases of entangled states of tripartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0304184
title: Bell States, Dense Coding, and Teleportation
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 5 pages, with correction of typographical errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304184
abstract: The question of the measurements on the Bell states by making use of mode change (from mixed to pure) of one qubit is considered. Such a mode change cannot be taken advantage of for superluminal communication in teleportation, and it may define constraints on the size of the gates.

id: quant-ph/0304185
title: Decoherence effects on the tunneling rate of paramagnetic and superparamagnetic particles
authors: E. H. Martins Ferreira, M. C. Nemes, H.-D. Pfannes
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304185
abstract: We analyze the effects of the environment on the spin tunneling process of paramagnetic and superparamagnetic particles and conclude that the non assisted macroscopic tunneling rate is hardly affected in such case, but other more effective (phonon mediated) processes change the magnetization state of the particle. We conclude that for both, paramagnetic and superparamagnetic particles, the decoherence time scale is extremely short (~ 10^(-8..-16)seg), indicating thar coherent tunneling should be strongly suppressed in favor of incoherent tunneling, i.e., the population of higher levels with subsequent decay.

id: quant-ph/0304186
title: Quantum correlations between separated particles
authors: B. C. Sanctuary
comments: 15pages; 1 figure; simplified and shortened discussion. Equations are the same
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304186
abstract: Long-range quantum correlations between particles are usually formulated by assuming the persistence of an entangled state after the particles have spearated. Here this approach is re-examined based upon studying the correlations present in a pair of EPR spins. Two types of correltions are identified. The first, due to the quantum interference terms is parity. This symmetry property characterizes entanglement. Second is correlation due to conservation of angular momentum. The two contributions are equal and have the same functional form. When entanglement is present, Bell's inequalities are violated but when parity is destroyed by disentanglement, Bell's inequalities are satisfied. It is shown tht some experiments which have hiterto been interpreted by entangled states can be better described by disentanglement. Implications for quantum non-locality are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0304187
title: Quantum "Teleportation" using local correlations
authors: B. C. Sanctuary, Mangala Sunder Krishnan, S. Presse, Wei Chen
comments: 8 pages; Shortened and simplified with emphasis on the statistical ensemble interpretation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304187
abstract: The phenomenon called quantum "teleportation" has been formulated assuming the presence of entangled states and is interpreted as a realization of quantum non-locality. In contrast, correlations from both entanglement and disentanglement upon particle spearation exists and both of these are built into the EPR pair as they move apart. Here it is shown that quantum "teleportaton" can be formulated and interpreted without invoking a non-local hypothesis of quantum mechanics, and is better descrited as "quantum state selection".

id: quant-ph/0304188
title: Atomic Qubit Manipulations with an Electro-Optic Modulator
authors: P. J. Lee, B. B. Blinov, K. Brickman, L. Deslauriers, M. J. Madsen, R. Miller, D. L. Moehring, D. Stick, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304188
abstract: We report new techniques for driving high-fidelity stimulated Raman transitions in trapped ion qubits. An electro-optic modulator induces sidebands on an optical source, and interference between the sidebands allows coherent Rabi transitions to be efficiently driven between hyperfine ground states separated by 14.53 GHz in a single trapped 111Cd+ ion.

id: quant-ph/0304189
title: Description of a quantum convolutional code
authors: H. Ollivier, J.-P. Tillich
comments: 4 pages, uses revtex4. Minor correction in the encoding and decoding circuits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304189
abstract: We describe a quantum error correction scheme aimed at protecting a flow of quantum information over long distance communication. It is largely inspired by the theory of classical convolutional codes which are used in similar circumstances in classical communication. The particular example shown here uses the stabilizer formalism, which provides an explicit encoding circuit. An associated error estimation algorithm is given explicitly and shown to provide the most likely error over any memoryless quantum channel, while its complexity grows only linearly with the number of encoded qubits.

id: quant-ph/0304190
title: Stability of stationary solutions of the Schrodinger-Langevin equation
authors: P. Van, T. Fulop
comments: revised, 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, (2004), 323/5-6, p374-381
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304190
abstract: The stability properties of a class of dissipative quantum mechanical systems are investigated. The nonlinear stability and asymptotic stability of stationary states (with zero and nonzero dissipation respectively) is investigated by Liapunov's direct method. The results are demonstrated by numerical calculations on the example of the damped harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0304191
title: Muon transfer from muonic hydrogen to atomic oxygen
authors: Arnaud Dupays, Bruno Lepetit, Juan Alberto Beswick, Carlo Rizzo, Dimitar Bakalov
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304191
abstract: The muon transfer probabilities between muonic hydrogen and an oxygen atom are calculated in a constrained geometry one dimensional model for collision between 10^-6 and 10^3 eV. These estimated rates are discussed in the light of previous model calculations and available experimental data for this process.

id: quant-ph/0304192
title: Stored light and released fiction
authors: E.B.Alexandrov, V.S.Zapasskii
comments: 4 pages, Latex, one eps figure, submitted to PRL, minor changes - Authors in the title were missing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304192
abstract: It is shown that the interpretation of the experimental results reported in the publication Storage of Light in Atomic Vapor" by D.F.Phillips et al., Phys. Rev.Lett. 86, 783 (2001) is incorrect. The experimental observation of this paper can be consistently explained in the framework of standard concepts of the physics of optical pumping and have nothing to do with "storage of light'', or "dynamic reduction of the group velocity'', or "light pulse compression''.

id: quant-ph/0304193
title: Generation of spatial antibunching with free propagating twin beams
authors: D. P. Caetano, P.H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: Submitted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304193
abstract: We propose and implement a novel method to produce a spatial anti-bunched field with free propagating twin beams from spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The method consists in changing the spatial propagation by manipulating the transverse degrees of freedom through reflections of one of the twin beams. Our method use reflective elements eliminating losses from absorption by the objects inserted in the beams.

id: quant-ph/0304194
title: Mixture of multiple copies of maximally entangled states is quasi-pure
authors: Dong Yang, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. The paper is subtantially revised and the general proof is given
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304194
abstract: Employing the general BXOR operation and local state discrimination, the mixed state of the form \rho^{(k)}_{d}=\frac{1}{d^{2}}\sum_{m,n=0}^{d-1}(|\phi_{mn}><\phi_{mn}|)^{\otim es k} is proved to be quasi-pure, where $\{|\phi_{mn}>\}$ is the canonical set of mutually orthogonal maximally entangled states in $d\times d$. Therefore irreversibility does not occur in the process of distillation for this family of states. Also, the distillable entanglement is calculated explicitly.

id: quant-ph/0304195
title: A de Broglie-Bohm Like Model for Dirac Equation
authors: O. Chavoya-Aceves
comments: 9 pages, typing errors corrected (eqs. 45 & 46), Submitted to Il Nuovo Cimento
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304195
abstract: A de Broglie-Bohm like model of Dirac equation, that leads to the correct Pauli equations for electrons and positrons in the low-speed limit, is presented. Under this theoretical framework, that affords an interpretation of the quantum potential, the main assumption of the de Broglie-Bohm theory--that the local momentum of particles is given by the gradient of the phase of the wave function--wont be accurate. Also, the number of particles wont be locally conserved. Furthermore, the representation of physical systems through wave functions wont be complete.

id: quant-ph/0304196
title: Distilling common randomness from bipartite quantum states
authors: I. Devetak, A. Winter
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304196
abstract: The problem of converting noisy quantum correlations between two parties into noiseless classical ones using a limited amount of one-way classical communication is addressed. A single-letter formula for the optimal trade-off between the extracted common randomness and classical communication rate is obtained for the special case of classical-quantum correlations. The resulting curve is intimately related to the quantum compression with classical side information trade-off curve $Q^*(R)$ of Hayden, Jozsa and Winter. For a general initial state we obtain a similar result, with a single-letter formula, when we impose a tensor product restriction on the measurements performed by the sender; without this restriction the trade-off is given by the regularization of this function. Of particular interest is a quantity we call ``distillable common randomness'' of a state: the maximum overhead of the common randomness over the one-way classical communication if the latter is unbounded. It is an operational measure of (total) correlation in a quantum state. For classical-quantum correlations it is given by the Holevo mutual information of its associated ensemble, for pure states it is the entropy of entanglement. In general, it is given by an optimization problem over measurements and regularization; for the case of separable states we show that this can be single-letterized.

id: quant-ph/0304197
title: Effective Hamiltonian and unitarity of the S matrix
authors: I. Rotter
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. E68 (2003) 016211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304197
abstract: The properties of open quantum systems are described well by an effective Hamiltonian ${\cal H}$ that consists of two parts: the Hamiltonian $H$ of the closed system with discrete eigenstates and the coupling matrix $W$ between discrete states and continuum. The eigenvalues of ${\cal H}$ determine the poles of the $S$ matrix. The coupling matrix elements $\tilde W_k^{cc'}$ between the eigenstates $k$ of ${\cal H}$ and the continuum may be very different from the coupling matrix elements $W_k^{cc'}$ between the eigenstates of $H$ and the continuum. Due to the unitarity of the $S$ matrix, the $\TW_k^{cc'}$ depend on energy in a non-trivial manner, that conflicts with the assumptions of some approaches to reactions in the overlapping regime. Explicit expressions for the wave functions of the resonance states and for their phases in the neighbourhood of, respectively, avoided level crossings in the complex plane and double poles of the $S$ matrix are given.

id: quant-ph/0304198
title: Spin-dependent Bohm trajectories for Pauli and Dirac eigenstates of hydrogen
authors: C. Colijn, E. R. Vrscay
comments: 15 pages
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. Vol. 16, No. 4 pp. 303-323 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304198
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm causal theory of quantum mechanics is applied to the hydrogen atom in the fully spin-dependent and relativistic framework of the Dirac equation, and in the nonrelativistic but spin-dependent framework of the Pauli equation. Eigenstates are chosen which are simultaneous eigenstates of the energy H, total angular momentum M, and z component of the total angular momentum M_z. We find the trajectories of the electron, and show that in these eigenstates, motion is circular about the z-axis, with constant angular velocity. We compute the rates of revolution for the ground (n=1) state and the n=2 states, and show that there is agreement in the relevant cases between the Dirac and Pauli results, and with earlier results on the Schrodinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0304199
title: Quantum gates with topological phases
authors: Radu Ionicioiu
comments: 2 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 034305 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304199
abstract: We investigate two models for performing topological quantum gates with the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) and Aharonov-Casher (AC) effects. Topological one- and two-qubit Abelian phases can be enacted with the AB effect using charge qubits, whereas the AC effect can be used to perform all single-qubit gates (Abelian and non-Abelian) for spin qubits. Possible experimental setups suitable for a solid state implementation are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0304200
title: On the properties of information gathering in quantum and classical measurements
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 13 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304200
abstract: The information provided by a classical measurement is unambiguously determined by the mutual information between the output results and the measured quantity. However, quantum mechanically there are at least two notions of information gathering which can be considered, one characterizing the information provided about the initial preparation, useful in communication, and the other characterizing the information about the final state, useful in state-preparation and control. Here we are interested in understanding the properties of these measures, and the information gathering capacities of quantum and classical measurements. We provide a partial answer to the question `in what sense does information gain increase with initial uncertainty?' by showing that, for classical and quantum measurements which are symmetric with respect to reversible transformations of the state space, the information gain regarding the initial state always increases with the observer's initial uncertainty. In addition, we calculate the capacity of all unitarily covariant and commutative permutation-symmetric measurements for obtaining classical information. While it is the von Neumann entropy of the effects which appears in the latter capacity, it is the subentropy which appears in the expression for the former.

id: quant-ph/0304201
title: Quantum walk on the line as an interference phenomenon
authors: Peter L. Knight, Eugenio Roldan, J.E. Sipe
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; corrected following referees comments
journal: Physical Review A 68, 020301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304201
abstract: We show that the coined quantum walk on a line can be understood as an interference phenomenon, can be classically implemented, and indeed already has been. The walk is essentially two independent walks associated with the different coin sides, coupled only at initiation. There is a simple analogy between the evolution of walker positions and the propagation of light in a dispersive optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0304202
title: That strange procedure called quantisation
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 28 pages, no figures, contribution to the conference ``Aspects of Quantum Gravity -- From Theory to Experimental Search'', Bad Honnef (Ger) 2002
journal: Lect.Notes Phys. 631 (2003) 17-40
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304202
abstract: This is a pedagogical and (almost) self-contained introduction into the theorem of Groenewold and van Howe, which states that a naive transcription of Dirac's quantisation rules cannot work. Some related issues in quantisation theory are also discussed. First-class constrained systems are briefly described in a slightly more `global' fashion.

id: quant-ph/0304203
title: Spin-dependent Bohm trajectories associated with an electronic transition in hydrogen
authors: C. Colijn, E. R. Vrscay
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A Math. Gen. Vol. 36 (2003) pp. 4689-4702.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304203
abstract: The Bohm causal theory of quantum mechanics with spin-dependence is used to determine electron trajectories when a hydrogen atom is subjected to (semi-classical) radiation. The transition between the 1s ground state and the 2p0 state is examined. It is found that transitions can be identified along Bohm trajectories. The trajectories lie on invariant hyperboloid surfaces of revolution in R^3. The energy along the trajectories is also discussed in relation to the hydrogen energy eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0304204
title: Controlling discrete quantum walks: coins and intitial states
authors: Ben Tregenna, Will Flanagan, Rik Maile, Viv Kendon
comments: 10 (+epsilon) pages, 10 embedded eps figures, typos corrected, references added and updated, corresponds to published version (except figs 5-9 optimised for b&w printing here)
journal: New J. Phys. 5 (2003) 83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304204
abstract: In discrete time, coined quantum walks, the coin degrees of freedom offer the potential for a wider range of controls over the evolution of the walk than are available in the continuous time quantum walk. This paper explores some of the possibilities on regular graphs, and also reports periodic behaviour on small cyclic graphs.

id: quant-ph/0304205
title: Entangled light in transition through the generation threshold
authors: G. Yu. Kryuchkyan, L. A. Manukyan
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; Content changed: more details added to the discussion. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 69, 013813 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304205
abstract: We investigate continuous variable entangling resources on the base of two-mode squeezing for all operational regimes of a nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator with allowance for quantum noise of arbitrary level. The results for the quadrature variances of a pair of generated modes are obtained by using the exact steady-state solution of Fokker-Planck equation for the complex P-quasiprobability distribution function. We find a simple expression for the squeezed variances in the near-threshold range and conclude that the maximal two-mode squeezing reaches 50% relative to the level of vacuum fluctuations and is achieved at the pump field intensity close to the generation threshold. The distinction between the degree of two-mode squeezing for monostable and bistable operational regimes is cleared up.

id: quant-ph/0304206
title: Harmonic inversion helps to beat time-energy uncertainty relations
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304206
abstract: It is impossible to obtain accurate frequencies from time signals of a very short duration. This is a common believe among contemporary physicists. Here I present a practical way of extracting energies to a high precision from very short time signals produced by a quantum system. The product of time span of the signal and the precision of found energies is well bellow the limit imposed by the time-energy uncertainty relation.

id: cond-mat/0304026
title: Defect-Suppressed Atomic Crystals in an Optical Lattice
authors: P. Rabl, A. J. Daley, P. O. Fedichev, J. I. Cirac, P. Zoller
comments: 4 Pages, 5 Figures, REVTex 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 110403 (2003)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304026
abstract: We present a coherent filtering scheme which dramatically reduces the site occupation number defects for atoms in an optical lattice, by transferring a chosen number of atoms to a different internal state via adiabatic passage. With the addition of superlattices it is possible to engineer states with a specific number of atoms per site (atomic crystals), which are required for quantum computation and the realisation of models from condensed matter physics, including doping and spatial patterns. The same techniques can be used to measure two-body spatial correlation functions. We illustrate these ideas with a scheme to study the creation of a BCS state with a chosen filling factor from a degenerate Fermi gas in an optical lattice.

id: cond-mat/0304028
title: Local quantum criticality in confined fermions on optical lattices
authors: M. Rigol, A. Muramatsu, G.G. Batrouni, R.T. Scalettar
comments: Revtex file, 4 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 130403 (2003)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304028
abstract: Using quantum Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the one-dimensional fermionic Hubbard model in a harmonic potential displays quantum critical behavior at the boundaries of a Mott-insulating region. A local compressibility defined to characterize the Mott-insulating phase has a non-trivial critical exponent. Both the local compressibility and the variance of the local density show universality with respect to the confining potential. We determine a generic phase diagram, that allows the prediction of the phases to be observed in experiments with ultracold fermionic atoms trapped on optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0304118
title: Exact Born Approximation for the Spin-Boson Model
authors: Daniel Loss, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: Revtex, 15 pages, 2 figures; v2, references added
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304118
abstract: Within the lowest-order Born approximation, we present an exact calculation of the time dynamics of the spin-boson model in the Ohmic regime. We observe non-Markovian effects at zero temperature that scale with the system-bath coupling strength and cause qualitative changes in the evolution of coherence at intermediate times of order of the oscillation period. These changes could significantly affect the performance of these systems as qubits. In the biased case, we find a prompt loss of coherence at these intermediate times, whose decay rate is set by $\sqrt{\alpha}$, where $\alpha$ is the coupling strength to the environment. These calculations indicate precision experimental tests that could confirm or refute the validity of the spin-boson model in a variety of systems.

id: cond-mat/0304127
title: Measurement-induced spin squeezing in a cavity
authors: Hiroki Saito, Masahito Ueda
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043820 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304127
abstract: Spin squeezing of an ensemble of N atoms in a high-Q cavity is shown to be enhanced by continuous measurement of photons in the cavity. A degree of spin squeezing proportional to N^{-1/3} is attained as a quasi-steady state over a broad set of initial states of the atoms and photons.

id: cond-mat/0304223
title: Mixtures of Bosonic and Fermionic Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: Alexander Albus, Fabrizio Illuminati, Jens Eisert
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures; added discussions; conclusions and references expanded
journal: Phys.Rev. A68 (2003) 023606
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304223
abstract: We discuss the theory of mixtures of Bosonic and Fermionic atoms in periodic potentials at zero temperature. We derive a general Bose--Fermi Hubbard Hamiltonian in a one--dimensional optical lattice with a superimposed harmonic trapping potential. We study the conditions for linear stability of the mixture and derive a mean field criterion for the onset of a Bosonic superfluid transition. We investigate the ground state properties of the mixture in the Gutzwiller formulation of mean field theory, and present numerical studies of finite systems. The Bosonic and Fermionic density distributions and the onset of quantum phase transitions to demixing and to a Bosonic Mott--insulator are studied as a function of the lattice potential strength. The existence is predicted of a disordered phase for mixtures loaded in very deep lattices. Such a disordered phase possessing many degenerate or quasi--degenerate ground states is related to a breaking of the mirror symmetry in the lattice.

id: cond-mat/0304225
title: Pseudospin Quantum Computation in Semiconductor Nanostructures
authors: V. W. Scarola, K. Park, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures New version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 167903 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304225
abstract: We theoretically show that spontaneously interlayer-coherent bilayer quantum Hall droplets should allow robust and fault-tolerant pseudospin quantum computation in semiconductor nanostructures with voltage-tuned external gates providing qubit control and a quantum Ising Hamiltonian providing qubit entanglement. Using a spin-boson model we estimate decoherence to be small $(\sim 10^{-5})$.

id: cond-mat/0304255
title: Quasiparticle Decoherence in d-wave Superconducting Qubits
authors: M. H. S. Amin, A. Yu. Smirnov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, final version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 017001 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304255
abstract: It is usually argued that the presence of gapless quasiparticle excitations at the nodes of the d-wave superconducting gap should strongly decohere the quantum states of a d-wave qubit, making quantum effects practically unobservable. Using a self-consistent linear response non-equilibrium quasiclassical formalism, we show that this is not necessarily true. We find quasiparticle conductance of a d-wave grain boundary junction to be strongly phase dependent. Midgap states as well as nodal quasiparticles contribute to the conductance and therefore decoherence. Quantum behavior is estimated to be detectable in a qubit containing a d-wave junction with appropriate parameters.

id: cond-mat/0304296
title: Quantum computing with antiferromagnetic spin clusters
authors: Florian Meier, Jeremy Levy, Daniel Loss
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures; minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 134417 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304296
abstract: We show that a wide range of spin clusters with antiferromagnetic intracluster exchange interaction allows one to define a qubit. For these spin cluster qubits, initialization, quantum gate operation, and readout are possible using the same techniques as for single spins. Quantum gate operation for the spin cluster qubit does not require control over the intracluster exchange interaction. Electric and magnetic fields necessary to effect quantum gates need only be controlled on the length scale of the spin cluster rather than the scale for a single spin. Here, we calculate the energy gap separating the logical qubit states from the next excited state and the matrix elements which determine quantum gate operation times. We discuss spin cluster qubits formed by one- and two-dimensional arrays of s=1/2 spins as well as clusters formed by spins s>1/2. We illustrate the advantages of spin cluster qubits for various suggested implementations of spin qubits and analyze the scaling of decoherence time with spin cluster size.

id: cond-mat/0304422
title: Spin Readout and Initialization in a Semiconductor Quantum Dot
authors: Mark Friesen, Charles Tahan, Robert Joynt, M. A. Eriksson
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v92, p037901 (2004)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304422
abstract: Electron spin qubits in semiconductors are attractive from the viewpoint of long coherence times. However, single spin measurement is challenging. Several promising schemes incorporate ancillary tunnel couplings that may provide unwanted channels for decoherence. Here, we propose a novel spin-charge transduction scheme, converting spin information to orbital information within a single quantum dot by microwave excitation. The same quantum dot can be used for rapid initialization, gating, and readout. We present detailed modeling of such a device in silicon to confirm its feasibility.

id: cond-mat/0304605
title: Nanomechanical Analog of a Laser: Amplification of Mechanical Oscillations by Stimulated Zeeman Transitions
authors: Igor Bargatin, M.L. Roukes
comments: REVTeX version 4: 4 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. This version incorporates suggestions of John Sidles and PRL referees
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 138302 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304605
abstract: We propose a magnetomechanical device that exhibits many properties of a laser. The device is formed by a nanocantilever and dynamically polarized paramagnetic nuclei of a solid sample in a strong external magnetic field. The corresponding quantum oscillator and effective two-level systems are coupled by the magnetostatic dipole-dipole interaction between a permanent magnet on the cantilever tip and the magnetic moments of the spins, so that the entire system is effectively described by the Jaynes-Cummings model. We consider the possibility of observing transient and cw lasing in this system, and show how these processes can be used to improve the sensitivity of magnetic resonance force microscopy.

id: cond-mat/0304678
title: Quantum pumping and dissipation: from closed to open systems
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 4 page paper, 1 figure (published version) + 2 page appendix
journal: D. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B 68, 201303(R) (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0304678
abstract: Current can be pumped through a closed system by changing parameters (or fields) in time. The Kubo formula allows to distinguish between dissipative and non-dissipative contributions to the current. We obtain a Green function expression and an $S$ matrix formula for the associated terms in the generalized conductance matrix: the "geometric magnetism" term that corresponds to adiabatic transport; and the "Fermi golden rule" term which is responsible to the irreversible absorption of energy. We explain the subtle limit of an infinite system, and demonstrate the consistency with the formulas by Landauer and Buttiker, Pretre and Thomas. We also discuss the generalization of the fluctuation-dissipation relation, and the implications of the Onsager reciprocity.

id: cs/0304008
title: A Physics-Free Introduction to the Quantum Computation Model
authors: Stephen A. Fenner
comments: 18 pages, 18 figures. Expanded write-up for BEATCS of introductory talk given at Dagstuhl Seminar 02421, "Algebraic Methods in Quantum and Classical Models of Computation," October 2002
journal: Bulletin of the European Association for Theoretical Computer Science, 79(Feb 2003), 69-85
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0304008
abstract: This article defines and proves basic properties of the standard quantum circuit model of computation. The model is developed abstractly in close analogy with (classical) deterministic and probabilistic circuits, without recourse to any physical concepts or principles. It is intended as a primer for theoretical computer scientists who do not know--and perhaps do not care to know--any physics.

id: cs/0304014
title: Commitment Capacity of Discrete Memoryless Channels
authors: Andreas Winter, Anderson C. A. Nascimento, Hideki Imai
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Proc. 9th Cirencester Crypto and Coding Conf., LNCS 2989, pp 35-51, Springer, Berlin 2003.
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0304014
abstract: In extension of the bit commitment task and following work initiated by Crepeau and Kilian, we introduce and solve the problem of characterising the optimal rate at which a discrete memoryless channel can be used for bit commitment. It turns out that the answer is very intuitive: it is the maximum equivocation of the channel (after removing trivial redundancy), even when unlimited noiseless bidirectional side communication is allowed. By a well-known reduction, this result provides a lower bound on the channel's capacity for implementing coin tossing, which we conjecture to be an equality. The method of proving this relates the problem to Wyner's wire--tap channel in an amusing way. We also discuss extensions to quantum channels.

id: cs/0304016
title: Symmetric and anti-symmetric quantum functions
authors: J. R. Burger
comments: Rewrote for clarity; added references to reversible computing; removed mention of Simon's functions
journal: 
subjects: Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0304016
abstract: This paper introduces and analyzes symmetric and anti-symmetric quantum binary functions. Generally, such functions uniquely convert a given computational basis state into a different basis state, but with either a plus or a minus sign. Such functions may serve along with a constant function (in a Deutsch-Jozsa type of algorithm) to provide 2**n deterministic qubit combinations (for n qubits) instead of just one.

id: gr-qc/0304032
title: Spacetime at the Planck Scale: The Quantum Computer View
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 12 pages. Shorter revised version for submission to journal
journal: The Foundations of Quantum Mechanics (C. Garola, A. Rossi, S. Sozzo Editors) Cesena 2004, pg. 345-358
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0304032
abstract: We assume that space-time at the Planck scale is discrete, quantised in Planck units and "qubitsed" (each pixel of Planck area encodes one qubit), that is, quantum space-time can be viewed as a quantum computer. Within this model, one finds that quantum space-time itself is entangled, and can quantum-evaluate Boolean functions which are the laws of Physics in their discrete and fundamental form.

id: gr-qc/0304077
title: A New Approach to Quantising Space-Time: II. Quantising on a Category of Sets
authors: C.J. Isham
comments: Latex2e; minor changes only
journal: Adv.Theor.Math.Phys. 7 (2004) 807-829
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0304077
abstract: In a recent paper by the author, a new approach was suggested for quantising space-time, or space. This involved developing a procedure for quantising a system whose configuration space--or history-theory analogue--is the set of objects in a (small) category $\Q$. In the present paper, we show how this theory can be applied to the special case when $\Q$ is a category of sets. This includes the physically important examples where $\Q$ is a category of causal sets, or topological spaces.

id: gr-qc/0304078
title: Troubles with quantum anistropic cosmological models: Loss of unitarity
authors: F.G. Alvarenga, A.B. Batista, J.C. Fabris, S.V.B. Gon?alves
comments: Latex file, 18 pages. To appear in General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 35 (2003) 1659-1677
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0304078
abstract: The anisotropic Bianchi I cosmological model coupled with perfect fluid is quantized in the minisuperspace. The perfect fluid is described by using the Schutz formalism which allows to attribute dynamical degrees of freedom to matter. A Schr\"odinger-type equation is obtained where the matter variables play the role of time. However, the signature of the kinetic term is hyperbolic. This Schr\"odinger-like equation is solved and a wave packet is constructed. The norm of the resulting wave function comes out to be time dependent, indicating the loss of unitarity in this model. The loss of unitarity is due to the fact that the effective Hamiltonian is hermitian but not self-adjoint. The expectation value and the bohmian trajectories are evaluated leading to different cosmological scenarios, what is a consequence of the absence of a unitary quantum structure. The consistency of this quantum model is discussed as well as the generality of the absence of unitarity in anisotropic quantum models.

id: hep-ph/0304082
title: Speed-up through entanglement -- many-body effects in neutrino processes
authors: Nicole F. Bell, Andrew A. Rawlinson, R. F. Sawyer
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Note added; Version to appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B573 (2003) 86-93
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0304082
abstract: We study a system containing many particles of identical kinematics with a zero range interaction that scatters one from the other, and with the possible exchange of an attribute. Taking an initial condition in which the attribute is asymmetrically distributed in the regions of momentum space occupied by the particles, we study the rate at which it becomes uniformly distributed, through collisions. We find, in some circumstances, a rate that is much faster than that which would be estimated from cross-sections. This behavior is attributable in some general sense to N-particle entanglement. We suggest applications to neutrino physics, where the attribute is neutrino flavor.

id: hep-ph/0304225
title: The "proton spin crisis" - a quantum query
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0304225
abstract: The "proton spin crisis" was introduced in the late 1980s, when the EMC-experiment revealed that little or nothing of a proton's spin seemed to be carried by its quarks. The main objective of this paper is to point out that it is wrong to assume that the proton spin, measured by completely different experimental setups, should be the same in all circumstances.

id: hep-th/0304008
title: Casimir densities for two concentric spherical shells in the global monopole spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian, M. R. Setare
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A19 (2004) 4301-4321
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304008
abstract: The quantum vacuum effects are investigated for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling and obeying the Robin boundary conditions given on two concentric spherical shells with radii $a $ and $b$ in the $D+1$-dimensional global monopole background. The expressions are derived for the Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field square, the vacuum energy density, radial and azimuthal stress components in the region between the shells. A regularization procedure is carried out by making use of the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the series over zeros of combinations of the cylinder functions. This formula allows us to extract from the vacuum expectation values the parts due to a single sphere on background of the global monopole gravitational field, and to present the "interference" parts in terms of exponentially convergent integrals, useful, in particular, for numerical evaluations. The vacuum forces acting on the boundaries are presented as a sum of the self--action and interaction terms. The first one contains well known surface divergences and needs a further regularization. The interaction forces between the spheres are finite for all values $a<b$ and are attractive for a Dirichlet scalar. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum densities is investigated (i) in the limits $a\to 0$ and $b\to \infty $, (ii) in the limit $a,b\to \infty $ for fixed value $b-a$, and (iii) for small values of the parameter associated with the solid angle deficit in global monopole geometry. We show that in the case (ii) the results for two parallel Robin plates on the Minkowski bulk are rederived to the leading order.

id: hep-th/0304016
title: Classes of exact wavefunctions for general time-dependent Dirac Hamiltonians in 1+1 dimensions
authors: A. S. de Castro, A. de Souza Dutra
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A67 (2003) 054101
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304016
abstract: In this work we construct two classes of exact solutions for the most general time-dependent Dirac Hamiltonian in 1+1 dimensions. Some problems regarding to some formal solutions in the literature are discussed. Finally the existence of a generalized Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant connected with such solutions is discussed.

id: hep-th/0304017
title: Wigner's little group and Berry's phase for massless particles
authors: Netanel H. Lindner, Asher Peres, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 4 pages revtex
journal: J.Phys. A36 (2003) L449
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304017
abstract: The ``little group'' for massless particles (namely, the Lorentz transformations $\Lambda$ that leave a null vector invariant) is isomorphic to the Euclidean group E2: translations and rotations in a plane. We show how to obtain explicitly the rotation angle of E2 as a function of $\Lambda$ and we relate that angle to Berry's topological phase. Some particles admit both signs of helicity, and it is then possible to define a reduced density matrix for their polarization. However, that density matrix is physically meaningless, because it has no transformation law under the Lorentz group, even under ordinary rotations.

id: hep-th/0304066
title: Effective Actions, Boundaries and Precision Calculations of Casimir Energies
authors: Y. Aghababaie, C.P. Burgess
comments: 5 pages. revtex; Added paragraphs describing finite-conductivity effects and effects due to curvature
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 085003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304066
abstract: We perform the matching required to compute the leading effective boundary contribution to the QED lagrangian in the presence of a conducting surface, once the electron is integrated out. Our result resolves a confusion in the literature concerning the interpretation of the leading such correction to the Casimir energy. It also provides a useful theoretical laboratory for brane-world calculations in which kinetic terms are generated on the brane, since a lot is known about QED near boundaries.

id: hep-th/0304078
title: Classical paths in systems of fermions
authors: David H. Oaknin
comments: to appear in Pys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D67 (2003) 105016
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304078
abstract: We implement in systems of fermions the formalism of pseudoclassical paths that we recently developed for systems of bosons and show that quantum states of fermionic fields can be described, in the Heisenberg picture, as linear combinations of randomly distributed paths that do not interfere between themselves and obey classical Dirac equations. Every physical observable is assigned a time-dependent value on each path in a way that respects the anticommutative algebra between quantum operators and we observe that these values on paths do not necessarily satisfy the usual algebraic relations between classical observables. We use these pseudoclassical paths to define the dynamics of quantum fluctuations in systems of fermions and show that, as we found for systems of bosons, the dynamics of fluctuations of a wide class of observables that we call "collective" observables can be approximately described in terms of classical stochastic concepts. Finally, we apply this formalism to describe the dynamics of local fluctuations of globally conserved fermion numbers.

id: hep-th/0304091
title: Relativistic Wave Equation for Fields with Two Mass and Spin States
authors: S. I. Kruglov
comments: 27 pages, minor changes, typos in Eq. (5) corrected, to appear in Horizons in World Physics (Nova Science Publishers, Inc., Hauppauge, NY), ed. by Tory V. Lynch, Vol. 245 (2004), p.63-84
journal: Horizons in World Physics, ed. by Tory V. Lynch, Vol. 245 (2004), p.63-84 (Nova Science Publishers, Inc., Hauppauge, NY)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304091
abstract: I suggest wave equations for the scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, and pseudovector fields with different masses for spin zero and one states. Tensor, matrix, and quaternion formulations of fields with two mass and spin states are considered. This is the generalization of the Dirac-K\"ahler equation on the case of different masses of fields with spin one and zero. The equation matrices obtained are simple linear combinations of matrix elements in the 16-dimensional space. Spin projection operators and solutions of equations (for spin one) in the form of matrix-dyads are obtained. The canonical quantization of fields under consideration is studied. The anomalous interaction of the scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, and pseudovector fields with the external electromagnetic field is considered. Three constants which characterize the anomalous magnetic moment and quadrupole electric moment of a particle are introduced.

id: hep-th/0304105
title: Noncommutative quantum mechanics and Bohm's ontological interpretation
authors: G. D. Barbosa, N. Pinto-Neto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D69 (2004) 065014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304105
abstract: We carry out an investigation into the possibility of developing a Bohmian interpretation based on the continuous motion of point particles for noncommutative quantum mechanics. The conditions for such an interpretation to be consistent are determined, and the implications of its adoption for noncommutativity are discussed. A Bohmian analysis of the noncommutative harmonic oscillator is carried out in detail. By studying the particle motion in the oscillator orbits, we show that small-scale physics can have influence at large scales, something similar to the IR-UV mixing.

id: hep-th/0304175
title: Projective Quantum Mechanics
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304175
abstract: We study the quantisation of complex, finite-dimensional, compact, classical phase spaces C, by explicitly constructing Hilbert-space vector bundles over C. We find that these vector bundles split as the direct sum of two holomorphic vector bundles: the holomorphic tangent bundle T(C), plus a complex line bundle N(C). Quantum states (except the vacuum) appear as tangent vectors to C. The vacuum state appears as the fibrewise generator of N(C). Holomorphic line bundles N(C) are classified by the elements of Pic(C), the Picard group of C. In this way Pic(C) appears as the parameter space for nonequivalent vacua. Our analysis is modelled on, but not limited to, the case when C is complex projective space.

id: hep-th/0304193
title: Unified Theory of Fundamental Interactions
authors: Ning Wu
comments: 23 pages, no figure
journal: Commun.Theor.Phys. 39 (2003) 561-568
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304193
abstract: Based on local gauge invariance, four different kinds of fundamental interactions in Nature are unified in a theory which has $SU(3)_c \otimes SU(2)_L \otimes U(1) \otimes_s Gravitational Gauge Group$ gauge symmetry. In this approach, gravitational field, like electromagnetic field, intermediate gauge field and gluon field, is represented by gauge potential. Four kinds of fundamental interactions are formulated in the similar manner, and therefore can be unified in a direct or semi-direct product group. The model discussed in this paper can be regarded as extension of the standard model to gravitational interactions. The model discussed in this paper is a renormalizable quantum model, so it can be used to study quantum effects of gravitational interactions.

id: hep-th/0304235
title: Quantum Mechanics in Infinite Symplectic Volume
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: Picard group corrected
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 349-355
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0304235
abstract: We quantise complex, infinite-dimensional projective space CP(H). We apply the result to quantise a complex, finite-dimensional, classical phase space C whose symplectic volume is infinite, by holomorphically embedding it into CP(H). The embedding is univocally determined by requiring it to be an isometry between the Bergman metric on C and the Fubini-Study metric on CP(H). Then the Hilbert-space bundle over C is the pullback, by the embedding, of the Hilbert-space bundle over CP(H).

id: math-ph/0304006
title: Dirac Spinors and Representations of GL(4) Group in GR
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeXe, 7 pages; v2: text around Eq(9) and Eq(24) corrected, v3: nonsignificant improvements, one sentence in abstract slightly changed to prevent "interference" with Y. Ne'eman et al result. Anyway neither Ne'eman et al results about GL(4), nor twistors, nor loop quantum gravity, nor black hole entropy... still are not discussed here in sake of shortness
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0304006
abstract: Transformation properties of Dirac equation correspond to Spin(3,1) representation of Lorentz group SO(3,1), but group GL(4,R) of general relativity does not accept a similar construction with Dirac spinors. On the other hand, it is possible to look for representation of GL(4,R) in some bigger space, there Dirac spinors are formally situated as some "subsystem." In the paper is described construction of such representation, using Clifford and Grassmann algebras of 4D space.

id: nlin/0304042
title: Supporting random wave models: a quantum mechanical approach
authors: J. D. Urbina, K. Richter
comments: 7 pages. Submitted to the Letters to the editor of J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0304042
abstract: We show how two-point correlation functions derived within non-isotropic random wave models are in fact quantum results that are obtained in the appropriate limit in terms of the exact Green function of the quantum system. Since no statistical model is required for this derivation, this shows that taking the wave functions as Gaussian processes is the only assumption of those random wave models. We also show how for clean systems the two-point correlation function defined through an energy average defines a Gaussian theory which substantially reduces the spurious contributions coming from the normalisation problem.

id: nucl-th/0304010
title: Phase shift effective range expansion from supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Boris F. Samsonov, Fl. Stancu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Revtex4, version to be publised in Physical Review C
journal: Phys.Rev. C67 (2003) 054005
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0304010
abstract: Supersymmetric or Darboux transformations are used to construct local phase equivalent deep and shallow potentials for $\ell \neq 0$ partial waves. We associate the value of the orbital angular momentum with the asymptotic form of the potential at infinity which allows us to introduce adequate long-distance transformations. The approach is shown to be effective in getting the correct phase shift effective range expansion. Applications are considered for the $^1P_1$ and $^1D_2$ partial waves of the neutron-proton scattering.

id: physics/0304012
title: Shortcut to a Fermi-Degenerate Gas of Molecules via Cooperative Association
authors: Olavi Dannenberg, Matt Mackie, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRL; v2: expanded intro, added discussion on neglect of collisions and when mimicking should occur
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 210404 (2003).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0304012
abstract: We theoretically examine the creation of a Fermi-degenerate gas of molecules via a photoassociation or Feshbach resonance applied to a degenerate Bose-Fermi mixture of atoms. This problem raises an interest because, unlike bosons, fermions in general do not behave cooperatively, so that the collective conversion of, say, two million atoms into one million molecules is not to be expected. Nevertheless, we find that the coupled Fermi system displays collective Rabi-like oscillations and adiabatic passage between atoms and molecules, thereby mimicking Bose-Einstein statistics. Cooperative association of a degenerate mixture of Bose and Fermi gases could therefore serve as a shortcut to a degenerate gas of Fermi molecules.

id: physics/0304013
title: Tests for non-randomness in quantum jumps
authors: D.J. Berkeland, D.A. Raymondson, V.M. Tassin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. To appear in PRA. New version replaces much of the previous analysis with a more simple measurement of the reduction of entropy of information. Also includes smaller changes to text and figures to improve clarity
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0304013
abstract: In a fundamental test of quantum mechanics, we have observed 228~000 quantum jumps of a single trapped and laser cooled $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ion. This represents a statistical increase of two orders of magnitude over previous similar analyses of quantum jumps. Compared to other searches for non-randomness in quantum mechanical processes, using quantum jumps simplifies the interpretation of data by eliminated multi-particle effects and providing near-unit detection efficiency of transitions. We measure the fractional reduction in the entropy of information to be $< 6.5~10^{-4}$ when the value of any interval between quantum jumps is known. We also find that the number of runs of successively increasing or decreasing interval times agrees with the theoretically expected values. Furthermore, we analyze 238~000 quantum jumps from two simultaneously confined ions and find that the number of apparently coincidental transitions is as expected. Finally, we observe 8400 spontaneous decays of two simultaneously trapped ions and find that the number of apparently coincidental decays from the metastable state agrees with the expected value. We find no evidence for short- or long-term correlations in the intervals of the quantum jumps or in the decay of the quantum states, in agreement with quantum theory.

id: math/0304350
title: Weak tensor products of complete atomistic lattices
authors: Boris Ischi
comments: 
journal: Published in Algebra Universalis, vol. 57, p. 239-258 (2007)
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0304350
abstract: Given two complete atomistic lattices L_1 and L_2, we define a set S(L_1,L_2) of complete atomistic lattices by means of three axioms (natural regarding the description of separated quantum compound systems), or in terms of a universal property with respect to a given class of bimorphisms. We call the elements of S(L_1,L_2) weak tensor products of L_1 and L_2. We prove that S(L_1,L_2) is a complete lattice. We compare the bottom element with the separated product of Aerts and with the box product of Graetzer and Wehrung. Similarly, we compare the top element with the tensor products of Fraser, Chu and Shmuely. With some additional hypotheses on L_1 and L_2 (true for instance if L_1 and L_2 are moreover irreducible, orthocomplemented and with the covering property), we characterize the automorphisms of weak tensor products in terms of those of L_1 and L_2.

