id: quant-ph/0304112
title: Multiparty Quantum Coin Flipping
authors: Andris Ambainis, Harry Buhrman, Yevgeniy Dodis, Hein Roehrig
comments: v2: bounds now tight via new protocol; to appear at IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304112
abstract: We investigate coin-flipping protocols for multiple parties in a quantum broadcast setting: (1) We propose and motivate a definition for quantum broadcast. Our model of quantum broadcast channel is new. (2) We discovered that quantum broadcast is essentially a combination of pairwise quantum channels and a classical broadcast channel. This is a somewhat surprising conclusion, but helps us in both our lower and upper bounds. (3) We provide tight upper and lower bounds on the optimal bias epsilon of a coin which can be flipped by k parties of which exactly g parties are honest: for any 1 <= g <= k, epsilon = 1/2 - Theta(g/k). Thus, as long as a constant fraction of the players are honest, they can prevent the coin from being fixed with at least a constant probability. This result stands in sharp contrast with the classical setting, where no non-trivial coin-flipping is possible when g <= k/2.

id: quant-ph/0304113
title: Quantum walks on cycles
authors: Malgorzata Bednarska, Andrzej Grudka, Pawel Kurzynski, Tomasz Luczak, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 317 (2003) 21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304113
abstract: We consider asymptotic behaviour of a Hadamard walk on a cycle. For a walk which starts with a state in which all the probability is concentrated on one node, we find the explicit formula for the limiting distribution and discuss its asymptotic behaviour when the length of the cycle tends to infinity. We also demonstrate that for a carefully chosen initial state, the limiting distribution of a quantum walk on cycle can lie further away from the uniform distribution than its initial state.

id: quant-ph/0304201
title: Quantum walk on the line as an interference phenomenon
authors: Peter L. Knight, Eugenio Roldan, J.E. Sipe
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; corrected following referees comments
journal: Physical Review A 68, 020301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304201
abstract: We show that the coined quantum walk on a line can be understood as an interference phenomenon, can be classically implemented, and indeed already has been. The walk is essentially two independent walks associated with the different coin sides, coupled only at initiation. There is a simple analogy between the evolution of walker positions and the propagation of light in a dispersive optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0304204
title: Controlling discrete quantum walks: coins and intitial states
authors: Ben Tregenna, Will Flanagan, Rik Maile, Viv Kendon
comments: 10 (+epsilon) pages, 10 embedded eps figures, typos corrected, references added and updated, corresponds to published version (except figs 5-9 optimised for b&w printing here)
journal: New J. Phys. 5 (2003) 83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304204
abstract: In discrete time, coined quantum walks, the coin degrees of freedom offer the potential for a wider range of controls over the evolution of the walk than are available in the continuous time quantum walk. This paper explores some of the possibilities on regular graphs, and also reports periodic behaviour on small cyclic graphs.

