id: quant-ph/0305001
title: Diagnosis, prescription and prognosis of a Bell-state filter by quantum process tomography
authors: M. W. Mitchell, C. W. Ellenor, S. Schneider, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305001
abstract: Using a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer, we apply the techniques of quantum process tomography to characterize errors and decoherence in a prototypical two-photon operation, a singlet-state filter. The quantum process tomography results indicate a large asymmetry in the process and also the required operation to correct for this asymmetry. Finally, we quantify errors and decoherence of the filtering operation after this modification.

id: quant-ph/0305002
title: Characterization of entanglement using sum uncertainty relations for N-level systems
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the proceedings of QIT8, held June 30th to July 2nd 2003 in Sapporo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305002
abstract: The efficient experimental verification of entanglement requires an identification of the essential physical properties that distinguish entangled states from non-entangled states. Since the most characteristic feature of entanglement is the extreme precision of correlations between spatially separated systems, we propose a quantitative criterion based on local uncertainty relations (quant-ph/0212090). Some basic sum uncertainty relations for N-level systems are introduced and the amount of entanglement that can be verified by violations of the corresponding local uncertainty limit is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0305003
title: Bound entangled states violate a non-symmetric local uncertainty relation
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, including 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 034307 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305003
abstract: As a consequence of having a positive partial transpose, bound entangled states lack many of the properties otherwise associated with entanglement. It is therefore interesting to identify properties that distinguish bound entangled states from separable states. In this paper, it is shown that some bound entangled states violate a non-symmetric class of local uncertainty relations (quant-ph/0212090). This result indicates that the asymmetry of non-classical correlations may be a characteristic feature of bound entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0305004
title: An arbitrary-operation gate with a SQUID qubit
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Siyuan Han
comments: REVTEX, 1 figure, revised verson
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305004
abstract: A novel approach is proposed for realizing an arbitrary-operation gate with a SQUID qubit via pulsed-microwave manipulation. In this approach, the two logical states of the qubit are represented by the two lowest levels of the SQUID and an intermediate level is utilized for the gate manipulation. The method does not involve population in the intermediate level or tunneling between the two logical qubit states during the gate operation. Morever, we show that the gate can be much faster than the conventional two-level gate. In addition, to take the advantage of geometric quantum computing, we further show how the method can be extended to implement an arbitrary quantum logic operation in a SQUID qubit via geometric manipulation.

id: quant-ph/0305005
title: Entangled states with positive partial transpose arising from indecomposable positive linear maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye, Young Sung Park
comments: 16 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, vol.313, no.3, pp.163-174 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305005
abstract: We construct entangled states with positive partial transposes using indecomposable positive linear maps between matrix algebras. We also exhibit concrete examples of entangled states with positive partial transposes arising in this way, and show that they generate extreme rays in the cone of all positive semi-definite matrices with positive partial transposes. They also have Schmidt numbers two.

id: quant-ph/0305006
title: Eliminating ground-state dipole moments in quantum optics via canonical transformation
authors: Gediminas Juzeliunas, Luciana Davila Romero, David L. Andrews
comments: 18 pages including 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043811 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305006
abstract: By means of a canonical transformation it is shown how it is possible to recast the equations for molecular nonlinear optics to completely eliminate ground-state static dipole coupling terms. Such dipoles can certainly play a highly important role in nonlinear optical response - but equations derived by standard methods, in which these dipoles emerge only as special cases of transition moments, prove unnecessarily complex. It has been shown that the elimination of ground-state static dipoles in favor of dipole shifts results in a considerable simplification in form of the nonlinear optical susceptibilities. In a fully quantum theoretical treatment the validity of such a procedure has previously been verified using an expedient algorithm, whose defense was afforded only by a highly intricate proof. In this paper it is shown how a canonical transformation method entirely circumvents such an approach; it also affords new insights into the formulation of quantum field interactions.

id: quant-ph/0305007
title: Quantum Physics of Simple Optical Instruments
authors: Ulf Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: Rept.Prog.Phys. 66 (2003) 1207-1250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305007
abstract: Simple optical instruments are linear optical networks where the incident light modes are turned into equal numbers of outgoing modes by linear transformations. For example, such instruments are beam splitters, multiports, interferometers, fibre couplers, polarizers, gravitational lenses, parametric amplifiers, phase-conjugating mirrors and also black holes. The article develops the quantum theory of simple optical instruments and applies the theory to a few characteristic situations, to the splitting and interference of photons and to the manifestation of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations in parametric downconversion. How to model irreversible devices such as absorbers and amplifiers is also shown. Finally, the article develops the theory of Hawking radiation for a simple optical black hole. The paper is intended as a primer, as a nearly self-consistent tutorial. The reader should be familiar with basic quantum mechanics and statistics, and perhaps with optics and some elementary field theory. The quantum theory of light in dielectrics serves as the starting point and, in the concluding section, as a guide to understand quantum black holes.

id: quant-ph/0305008
title: Simulation of quantum random walks using interference of classical field
authors: H. Jeong, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: extensively revised version; title changed; to appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012310 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305008
abstract: We suggest a theoretical scheme for the simulation of quantum random walks on a line using beam splitters, phase shifters and photodetectors. Our model enables us to simulate a quantum random walk with use of the wave nature of classical light fields. Furthermore, the proposed set-up allows the analysis of the effects of decoherence. The transition from a pure mean photon-number distribution to a classical one is studied varying the decoherence parameters.

id: quant-ph/0305009
title: Toward a More Natural Expression of Quantum Logic with Boolean Fractions
authors: Philip G. Calabrese
comments: 46 pages, 2 figures for submittal to a refereed journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305009
abstract: The fundamental algebraic concepts of quantum mechanics, as expressed by many authors, are reviewed and translated into the framework of the relatively new non-distributive system of Boolean fractions (also called conditional events or conditional propositions). This system of ordered pairs (A|B) of events A, B, can express all of the non-Boolean aspects of quantum logic without having to resort to a more abstract formulation like Hilbert space. Such notions as orthogonality, superposition, simultaneous verifiability, compatibility, orthoalgebras, orthocomplementation, modularity, and the Sasaki projection mapping are translated into this conditional event framework and their forms exhibited. These concepts turn out to be quite adequately expressed in this near-Boolean framework thereby allowing more natural, intuitive interpretations of quantum phenomena. Results include showing that two conditional propositions are simultaneously verifiable just in case the truth of one implies the applicability of the other. Another theorem shows that two conditional propositions (a|b) and (c|d) reside in a common Boolean sub-algebra of the non-distributive system of conditional propositions just in case b=d, that their conditions are equivalent. Some concepts equivalent in standard formulations of quantum logic are distinguishable in the conditional event algebra, indicating the greater richness of expression possible with Boolean fractions. Logical operations and deductions in the linear subspace logic of quantum mechanics are compared with their counterparts in the conditional event realm. Disjunctions and implications in the quantum realm seem to correspond in the domain of Boolean fractions to previously identified implications with respect to various naturally arising deductive relations.

id: quant-ph/0305010
title: Quantum channels with a finite memory
authors: Garry Bowen, Stefano Mancini
comments: 7 Pages, RevTex, Jrnl version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305010
abstract: In this paper we study quantum communication channels with correlated noise effects, i.e., quantum channels with memory. We derive a model for correlated noise channels that includes a channel memory state. We examine the case where the memory is finite, and derive bounds on the classical and quantum capacities. For the entanglement-assisted and unassisted classical capacities it is shown that these bounds are attainable for certain classes of channel. Also, we show that the structure of any finite memory state is unimportant in the asymptotic limit, and specifically, for a perfect finite-memory channel where no nformation is lost to the environment, achieving the upper bound implies that the channel is asymptotically noiseless.

id: quant-ph/0305011
title: Measurement-induced decoherence and Gaussian smoothing of the Wigner distribution function
authors: Yong-Jin Chun, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: Accepted in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305011
abstract: We study the problem of measurement-induced decoherence using the phase-space approach employing the Gaussian-smoothed Wigner distribution function. Our investigation is based on the notion that measurement-induced decoherence is represented by the transition from the Wigner distribution to the Gaussian-smoothed Wigner distribution with the widths of the smoothing function identified as measurement errors. We also compare the smoothed Wigner distribution with the corresponding distribution resulting from the classical analysis. The distributions we computed are the phase-space distributions for simple one-dimensional dynamical systems such as a particle in a square-well potential and a particle moving under the influence of a step potential, and the time-frequency distributions for high-harmonic radiation emitted from an atom irradiated by short, intense laser pulses.

id: quant-ph/0305012
title: Wigner distributions and quantum mechanics on Lie groups: the case of the regular representation
authors: N. Mukunda, Arvind, S. Chaturvedi, R.Simon
comments: Latex, 54 pages, Section VII enlarged, new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305012
abstract: We consider the problem of setting up the Wigner distribution for states of a quantum system whose configuration space is a Lie group. The basic properties of Wigner distributions in the familiar Cartesian case are systematically generalised to accommodate new features which arise when the configuration space changes from $n$-dimensional Euclidean space ${\cal R}^n$ to a Lie group $G$. The notion of canonical momentum is carefully analysed, and the meanings of marginal probability distributions and their recovery from the Wigner distribution are clarified. For the case of compact $G$ an explicit definition of the Wigner distribution is proposed, possessing all the required properties. Geodesic curves in $G$ which help introduce a notion of the `mid point' of two group elements play a central role in the construction.

id: quant-ph/0305013
title: Universal control of quantum subspaces and subsystems
authors: P. Zanardi, S. Lloyd
comments: 4 Pages RevTeX, Some typos fixed, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305013
abstract: We describe a broad dynamical-algebraic framework for analyzing the quantum control properties of a set of naturally available interactions. General conditions under which universal control is achieved over a set of subspaces/subsystems are found. All known physical examples of universal control on subspaces/systems are related to the framework developed here.

id: quant-ph/0305014
title: Generation and Evolution of Spin Entanglement in NRQED
authors: Ru-Fen Liu, Chia-Chu Chen
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PRA, 68, 044302 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305014
abstract: A complete analysis on the generation of spin entanglement from NRQED is presented. The results of entanglement are obtained with relativistic correction to the leading order of (v/c)^2. It is shown that to this order the degree of entanglement of a singlet state does not change under time evolution whereas the triplet state can change.

id: quant-ph/0305015
title: One-dimensional scattering problem, self-adjoint extensions, renormalizations and point $¦Ä$-interactions for Coulomb potential
authors: V. S. Mineev
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305015
abstract: In the paper the one-dimensional one-center scattering problem with the initial potential $\alpha |x|^{-1}$ on the whole axis is treated and reduced to the search for allowable self-adjoint extensions. Using the laws of conservation as necessary conditions in the singular point alongside with account of the analytical structure of fundamental solutions, it allows us to receive exact expressions for the wave functions (i.e. for the boundary conditions), scattering coefficients and the singular corrections to the potential, as well as the corresponding bound state spectrum. It turns out that the point $\delta$-shaped correction to the potential should be present without fail at any choice of the allowable self-adjoint extension, moreover a form of these corrections corresponds to the form of renormalization terms obtained in quantum electrodynamics. Thus, the proposed method shows the unequivocal connection among the boundary conditions, scattering coefficients and $\delta$-shaped additions to the potential. Taken as a whole, the method demonstrates the opportunities which arise at the analysis of the self-adjoint extensions of the appropriate Hamilton operator. And as it concerns the renormalization theory, the method can be treated as a generalization of the Bogoliubov, Parasiuk and Hepp method of renormalizations.

id: quant-ph/0305016
title: Partially separable criterion and classification of states in multipartite systems with an arbitrary finite number of qubits
authors: An Min Wang
comments: Revised Version, 8 pages, no fig. Improved the expression of our theorem and brought our key conclusion into prominence
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305016
abstract: After introducing the partially separable concept, we proved the equivalence between the partial separability of a given $m$-partite subsystem with $m$ qubits and the purity of states of this $m$-partite subsystem for a pure state in multipartite systems with arbitrary finite $n(>m)$ qubits. Furthermore, we give out the operational realizations (corollaries) of our theorem, which are the sufficient and necessary criterions of partial separability of states and can be used to classification of states. Our results are helpful to understand and describe quantum entanglement in multipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0305017
title: Quantum computer: an appliance for playing market games
authors: Edward W. Piotrowski, Jan Sladkowski
comments: 20 pages, pure LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305017
abstract: Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The authors have recently proposed a quantum description of financial market in terms of quantum game theory. The paper contain an analysis of such markets that shows that there would be advantage in using quantum computers and quantum strategies.

id: quant-ph/0305018
title: Tomographic Quantum Cryptography
authors: Yeong Cherng Liang, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Berthold-Georg Englert, Leong Chuan Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: REVTeX4, 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 68, art. 022324 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305018
abstract: We present a protocol for quantum cryptography in which the data obtained for mismatched bases are used in full for the purpose of quantum state tomography. Eavesdropping on the quantum channel is seriously impeded by requiring that the outcome of the tomography is consistent with unbiased noise in the channel. We study the incoherent eavesdropping attacks that are still permissible and establish under which conditions a secure cryptographic key can be generated. The whole analysis is carried out for channels that transmit quantum systems of any finite dimension.

id: quant-ph/0305019
title: Quantum measurement of the degree of polarization of a light beam
authors: M. Legre, M. Wegmuller, N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters Vol. 91, 167902 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305019
abstract: We demonstrate a coherent quantum measurement for the determination of the degree of polarization (DOP). This method allows to measure the DOP in the presence of fast polarization state fluctuations, difficult to achieve with the typically used polarimetric technique. A good precision of the DOP measurements is obtained using 8 type II nonlinear crystals assembled for spatial walk-off compensation.

id: quant-ph/0305020
title: Reply to: Comment on "Bohmian prediction about a two double-slit experiment and its disagreement with SQM"
authors: O. Akhavan, M. Golshani
comments: 4 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305020
abstract: In a recent paper, Struyve et al. [Struyve W, De Baere W, De Neve J and De Weirdt S 2003 J. Phys. A 36 1525] attempted to show that the thought experiment proposed in [Golshani M and Akhavan O 2001 J. Phys. A 34 5259, quant-ph/0103101] cannot distinguish between standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics. Here, we want to show that, in spite of their objection, our conclusion still holds out.

id: quant-ph/0305021
title: Space-Filling Curves for Quantum Control Parameters
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: Electronic Journal of Theoretical Physics, V3 11, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305021
abstract: We consider the use of space-filling curves (SFC) in scanning control parameters for quantum chemical systems. First we show that a formally exact SFC must be singular in the control parameters, but a finite discrete generalization can be used with no problem. We then make general observations about the relevance of SFCs in preference to linear scans of the parameters. Finally we present a simple magnetic field example relevant in NMR and show from the calculated autocorrelations that a SFC Peano-Hilbert curve gives a smoother sequence than a linear scan.

id: quant-ph/0305022
title: Distributed construction of quantum fingerprints
authors: Andris Ambainis, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305022
abstract: Quantum fingerprints are useful quantum encodings introduced by Buhrman, Cleve, Watrous, and de Wolf (Physical Review Letters, Volume 87, Number 16, Article 167902, 2001; quant-ph/0102001) in obtaining an efficient quantum communication protocol. We design a protocol for constructing the fingerprint in a distributed scenario. As an application, this protocol gives rise to a communication protocol more efficient than the best known classical protocol for a communication problem.

id: quant-ph/0305023
title: A subsystem-independent generalization of entanglement
authors: Howard Barnum, Emanuel Knill, Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando Somma, Lorenza Viola
comments: 5 pages, 1 encapsulated color figure, REVTeX4 style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305023
abstract: We introduce a generalization of entanglement based on the idea that entanglement is relative to a distinguished subspace of observables rather than a distinguished subsystem decomposition. A pure quantum state is entangled relative to such a subspace if its expectations are a proper mixture of those of other states. Many information-theoretic aspects of entanglement can be extended to the general setting, suggesting new ways of measuring and classifying entanglement in multipartite systems. By going beyond the distinguishable-subsystem framework, generalized entanglement also provides novel tools for probing quantum correlations in interacting many-body systems.

id: quant-ph/0305024
title: Quantum information isomorphism: beyond the dillemma of Scylla of ontology and Charybdis of instrumentalism
authors: Ryszard Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki
comments: Preliminary version, to be submitted to special issue of the IBM Journal of Research and Development for Charles Bennett's 60th birthday To appear in special issue of the IBM Journal of Research and Development for Charles Bennett's 60th birthday
journal: IBM J. Res. Dev. 48, 139 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305024
abstract: In order to have the most safe way of dealing with unanalysable quantum whole the Copenhagen interpretation takes as a "frame of reference" the preparation parameters and outcomes of the measurements. It represents {\it passive} Ptolemean-like instrumentalism directly related to "what we see in the sky" i.e. to the "surface" of the things. However the notion of quantum information leads to {\it active} Copernican-like realism which involves (intrinsic) ordering principle and thinking about the whole as being analysable. One dares then to consider subsystems as localised in space, controlled individually, and communicated. This makes natural treating quantum information (quantum states) as by no means merely knowledge. Moreover it involves complementarity between local and nonlocal information. To avoid dilemma between Scylla of ontology and Charybdis of instrumentalism, the concept of {\it quantum information isomorphism} is proposed according to which quantum description of Nature and their mathematical representation. By definition it is not only just one-to-one mapping, but it preserves the structure. It allows, in particular, to treat the "wave function" as isomorphic image of what we are processing in laboratories implying that quantum information is indeed carried by the quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0305025
title: Decoherence, Control, and Symmetry in Quantum Computers
authors: D. Bacon
comments: 261 pages, Ph.D. thesis, University of California, Berkeley, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305025
abstract: In this thesis we describe methods for avoiding the detrimental effects of decoherence while at the same time still allowing for computation of the quantum information. The philosophy of the method discussed in the first part of this thesis is to use a symmetry of the decoherence mechanism to find robust encodings of the quantum information. Stability, control, and methods for using decoherence-free information in a quantum computer are presented with a specific emphasis on decoherence due to a collective coupling between the system and its environment. Universal quantum computation on such collective decoherence decoherence-free encodings is demonstrated. Rigorous definitions of control and the use of encoded universality in quantum computers are addressed. Explicit gate constructions for encoded universality on ion trap and exchange based quantum computers are given. In the second part of the thesis we examine physical systems with error correcting properties. We examine systems that can store quantum information in their ground state such that decoherence processes are prohibited via energetics. We present the theory of supercoherent systems whose ground states are quantum error detecting codes and describe a spin ladder whose ground state has both the error detecting and correcting properties. We conclude by discussing naturally fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0305026
title: What is random about a quantum random walk?
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 14 pgs, 6 figures, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305026
abstract: We use simple deterministic dynamical systems as coins in studying quantum walks. These dynamical systems can be chosen to display, in the classical limit, a range of behaviors from the integrable to chaotic, or deterministically random. As an example of an integrable coin we study the Fourier walk that generalizes the Hadamard walk and show that the walker slows down with coin dimensionality, which controls the effective Planck constant. Introducing multi-Harper maps as deterministic models of random walks we study the effect of coin chaos on the quantum walk. We also demonstrate that breaking time-reversal symmetry in the coin dynamics effectively slows down the walk.

id: quant-ph/0305027
title: The Stark effect in the charge-dyon system
authors: Levon Mardoyan, Armen Nersessian, Mara Petrosyan
comments: 6 pages
journal: Theor.Math.Phys. 140 (2004) 958-964; Teor.Mat.Fiz. 140 (2004) 78-85
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305027
abstract: The linear Stark effect in the MIC-Kepler problem describing the interaction of charged particle with Dirac's dyon is considered. It is shown that constant homogeneous electric field completely removes the degeneracy of the energy levels on azimuth quantum number

id: quant-ph/0305028
title: Polynomial degree vs. quantum query complexity
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure, v4 "proof by old method" corrected, moderate changes to presentation elsewhere
journal: Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 72(2): 220-238, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305028
abstract: The degree of a polynomial representing (or approximating) a function f is a lower bound for the number of quantum queries needed to compute f. This observation has been a source of many lower bounds on quantum algorithms. It has been an open problem whether this lower bound is tight. We exhibit a function with polynomial degree M and quantum query complexity \Omega(M^{1.321...}). This is the first superlinear separation between polynomial degree and quantum query complexity. The lower bound is shown by a new, more general version of quantum adversary method.

id: quant-ph/0305029
title: Quantum Computational Logics. A Survey
authors: M. L. Dalla Chiara, R. Giuntini, R. Leporini
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305029
abstract: Quantum computation has suggested new forms of quantum logic, called quantum computational logics. The basic semantic idea is the following: the meaning of a sentence is identified with a quregister, a system of qubits, representing a possible pure state of a compound quantum system. The generalization to mixed states, which might be useful to analyse entanglement-phenomena, is due to Gudder. Quantum computational logics represent non standard examples of unsharp quantum logic, where the non-contradiction principle is violated, while conjunctions and disjunctions are strongly non-idempotent. In this framework, any sentence of the language gives rise to a quantum tree: a kind of quantum circuit that transforms the quregister associated to the atomic subformulas of the sentence into the quregister associated to the sentence.

id: quant-ph/0305030
title: Quantum Approximation I. Embeddings of Finite Dimensional L_p Spaces
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: 27 pages, paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305030
abstract: We study approximation of embeddings between finite dimensional L_p spaces in the quantum model of computation. For the quantum query complexity of this problem matching (up to logarithmic factors) upper and lower bounds are obtained. The results show that for certain regions of the parameter domain quantum computation can essentially improve the rate of convergence of classical deterministic or randomized approximation, while there are other regions where the best possible rates coincide for all three settings. These results serve as a crucial building block for analyzing approximation in function spaces in a subsequent paper.

id: quant-ph/0305031
title: Quantum Approximation II. Sobolev Embeddings
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: 23 pages, paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305031
abstract: A basic problem of approximation theory, the approximation of functions from the Sobolev space W_p^r([0,1]^d) in the norm of L_q([0,1]^d), is considered from the point of view of quantum computation. We determine the quantum query complexity of this problem (up to logarithmic factors). It turns out that in certain regions of the domain of parameters p,q,r,d quantum computation can reach a speedup of roughly squaring the rate of convergence of classical deterministic or randomized approximation methods. There are other regions were the best possible rates coincide for all three settings.

id: quant-ph/0305032
title: Deformed Heisenberg algebra: origin of q-calculus
authors: P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305032
abstract: The intimate connection between q-deformed Heisenberg uncertainty relation and the Jackson derivative based on q-basic numbers has been noted in the literature. The purpose of this work is to establish this connection in a clear and self-consistent formulation and to show explicitly how the Jackson derivative arises naturally. We utilize a holomorphic representation to arrive at the correct algebra to describe q-deformed bosons. We investigate the algebra of q-fermions and point out how different it is from the theory of q-bosons. We show that the holomorphic representation for q-fermions is indeed feasible in the framework of the theory of generalized fermions. We also examine several different q-algebras in the context of the modified Heisenberg equation of motion.

id: quant-ph/0305033
title: Observation of Lasing Mediated by Collective Atomic Recoil
authors: D. Kruse, C. von Cube, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305033
abstract: We observe the buildup of a frequency-shifted reverse light field in a unidirectionally pumped high-$Q$ optical ring cavity serving as a dipole trap for cold atoms. This effect is enhanced and a steady state is reached, if via an optical molasses an additional friction force is applied to the atoms. We observe the displacement of the atoms accelerated by momentum transfer in the backscattering process and interpret our observations in terms of the collective atomic recoil laser. Numerical simulations are in good agreement with the experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0305034
title: Generation of inequivalent generalized Bell bases
authors: A. Wojcik, A. Grudka, R. W. Chhajlany
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information Processing 2, 201 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305034
abstract: The notion of equivalence of maximally entangled bases of bipartite d-dimensional Hilbert spaces is introduced. An explicit method of inequivalent bases construction is presented.

id: quant-ph/0305035
title: Equivalence of Additivity Questions in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Peter W. Shor
comments: now 20 pages, replaced to add a reference, remove a reference to a claimed result about locally minimal output entropy states (my proof of this was incorrect), correct minor typos, and add more explanation for the background of these conjectures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305035
abstract: We reduce the number of open additivity problems in quantum information theory by showing that four of them are equivalent. We show that the conjectures of additivity of the minimum output entropy of a quantum channel, additivity of the Holevo expression for the classical capacity of a quantum channel, additivity of the entanglement of formation, and strong superadditivity of the entanglement of formation, are either all true or all false.

id: quant-ph/0305036
title: Spectral Dependence of Coherent Backscattering of Light in a Narrow-Resonance Atomic System
authors: D.V. Kupriyanov, I.M. Sokolov, N.V. Larionov, P. Kulatunga, C.I. Sukenik, S. Balik, M.D. Havey
comments: 10 pages, 12 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 033801 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305036
abstract: We report a combined theoretical and experimental study of the spectral and polarization dependence of near resonant radiation coherently backscattered from an ultracold gas of 85Rb atoms. Measurements in an approximately 6 MHz range about the 5s^{2}S_{1/2}- 5p^{2}P_{3/2}, F=3 - F'=4 hyperfine transition are compared with simulations based on a realistic model of the experimental atomic density distribution. In the simulations, the influence of heating of the atoms in the vapor, magnetization of the vapor, finite spectral bandwidth, and other nonresonant hyperfine transitions are considered. Good agreement is found between the simulations and measurements.

id: quant-ph/0305037
title: Exclusion of Time in Mermin's Proof of Bell-Type Inequalities
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305037
abstract: Mermin states that his nontechnical version of Bell's theorem stands and is not invalidated by time and setting dependent instrument parameters as claimed in one of our previous papers. We identify deviations from well-established protocol in probability theory as well as mathematical contradictions in Mermin's argument and show that Mermin's conclusions are therefore not valid: his proof does not go forward if certain possible time dependencies are taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0305038
title: Quantum phase estimation algorithms with delays: effects of dynamical phases
authors: L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A, 37, 4607 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305038
abstract: The unavoidable finite time intervals between the sequential operations needed for performing practical quantum computing can degrade the performance of quantum computers. During these delays, unwanted relative dynamical phases are produced due to the free evolution of the superposition wave-function of the qubits. In general, these coherent "errors" modify the desired quantum interferences and thus spoil the correct results, compared to the ideal standard quantum computing that does not consider the effects of delays between successive unitary operations. Here, we show that, in the framework of the quantum phase estimation algorithm, these coherent phase "errors", produced by the time delays between sequential operations, can be avoided by setting up the delay times to satisfy certain matching conditions.

id: quant-ph/0305039
title: Effects of dynamical phases in Shor's factoring algorithm with operational delays
authors: L.F. Wei, Xiao Li, Xuedong Hu, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages with 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022317 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305039
abstract: Ideal quantum algorithms usually assume that quantum computing is performed continuously by a sequence of unitary transformations. However, there always exist idle finite time intervals between consecutive operations in a realistic quantum computing process. During these delays, coherent "errors" will accumulate from the dynamical phases of the superposed wave functions. Here we explore the sensitivity of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm to such errors. Our results clearly show a severe sensitivity of Shor's factorization algorithm to the presence of delay times between successive unitary transformations. Specifically, in the presence of these {\it coherent "errors"}, the probability of obtaining the correct answer decreases exponentially with the number of qubits of the work register. A particularly simple phase-matching approach is proposed in this paper to {\it avoid} or suppress these {\it coherent errors} when using Shor's algorithm to factorize integers. The robustness of this phase-matching condition is evaluated analytically or numerically for the factorization of several integers: $4, 15, 21$, and 33.

id: quant-ph/0305040
title: Fast Non-Adiabatic Two Qubit Gates for the Kane Quantum Computer
authors: Charles D. Hill, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 012321 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305040
abstract: In this paper we apply the canonical decomposition of two qubit unitaries to find pulse schemes to control the proposed Kane quantum computer. We explicitly find pulse sequences for the CNOT, swap, square root of swap and controlled Z rotations. We analyze the speed and fidelity of these gates, both of which compare favorably to existing schemes. The pulse sequences presented in this paper are theoretically faster, higher fidelity, and simpler than existing schemes. Any two qubit gate may be easily found and implemented using similar pulse sequences. Numerical simulation is used to verify the accuracy of each pulse scheme.

id: quant-ph/0305041
title: Broadband Geodesic Pulses for Three Spin Systems: Time-Optimal Realization of Effective Trilinear Coupling Terms and Indirect SWAP Gates
authors: Timo O. Reiss, Navin Khaneja, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 22 pages, incl. 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305041
abstract: Broadband implementations of time-optimal geodesic pulse elements are introduced for the efficient creation of effective trilinear coupling terms for spin systems consisting of three weakly coupled spins 1/2. Based on these pulse elements, the time-optimal implementation of indirect SWAP operations is demonstrated experimentally. The duration of indirect SWAP gates based on broadband geodesic sequence is reduced by 42.3% compared to conventional approaches.

id: quant-ph/0305042
title: Comment on "Quantum Interferometric Optical Lithography: Exploiting Entanglement to Beat the Diffraction Limit"
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305042
abstract: Comment on "Quantum Interferometric Optical Lithography: Exploiting Entanglement to Beat the Diffraction Limit" The effective absorption rates in quantum lithography are very low.

id: quant-ph/0305043
title: Degree of entanglement for two qutrits in a pure state
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305043
abstract: In this paper, a new measure of entanglement for general pure bipartite states of two qutrits is formulated.

id: quant-ph/0305044
title: Output state in multiple entanglement swapping
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Marek Zukowski
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305044
abstract: The technique of quantum repeaters is a promising candidate for sending quantum states over long distances through a lossy channel. The usual discussions of this technique deals with only a finite dimensional Hilbert space. However the qubits with which one implements this procedure will "ride" on continuous degrees of freedom of the carrier particles. Here we analyze the action of quantum repeaters using a model based on pulsed parametric down conversion entanglement swapping. Our model contains some basic traits of a real experiment. We show that the state created, after the use of any number of parametric down converters in a series of entanglement swappings, is always an entangled (actually distillable) state, although of a different form than the one that is usually assumed. Furthermore, the output state always violates a Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0305045
title: Quantum Computation explained to my Mother
authors: Pablo Arrighi
comments: Revtex, 7 pages
journal: Bulletin of the EATCS, 80, 134-142, June 2003 & Current Trends in Computer Science, 455-469, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305045
abstract: There are many falsely intuitive introductions to quantum theory and quantum computation in a handwave. There are also numerous documents which teach those subjects in a mathematically sound manner. To my knowledge this paper is the shortest of the latter category. The aim is to deliver a short yet rigorous and self-contained introduction to Quantum Computation, whilst assuming the reader has no prior knowledge of anything but the fundamental operations on real numbers. Successively I introduce complex matrices; the postulates of quantum theory and the simplest quantum algorithm. The document originates from a fifty minutes talk addressed to a non-specialist audience, in which I sought to take the shortest mathematical path that proves a quantum algorithm right.

id: quant-ph/0305046
title: Entangling power of the quantum baker's map
authors: A. J. Scott, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 9553 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305046
abstract: We investigate entanglement production in a class of quantum baker's maps. The dynamics of these maps is constructed using strings of qubits, providing a natural tensor-product structure for application of various entanglement measures. We find that, in general, the quantum baker's maps are good at generating entanglement, producing multipartite entanglement amongst the qubits close to that expected in random states. We investigate the evolution of several entanglement measures: the subsystem linear entropy, the concurrence to characterize entanglement between pairs of qubits, and two proposals for a measure of multipartite entanglement. Also derived are some new analytical formulae describing the levels of entanglement expected in random pure states.

id: quant-ph/0305047
title: The non-Markovian stochastic Schr?dinger equation for the position unraveling
authors: Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 6, S821 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305047
abstract: An important and well established area of quantum optics is the theory of Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations (or by another name quantum trajectory theory). Recently stochastic Schr\"odinger equations have been developed for non-Markovian systems. In this paper we extend the current known stochastic Schr\"odinger equations for non-Markovian systems to include the position unraveling. We also discuss and illustrate that this stochastic Schr\"odinger equation can have an interpretation under both the orthodox and the de Broglie-Bohm hidden variable interpretation of quantum mechanics. We conclude that only the de Broglie-Bohm hidden variable theory provides a continuous-in-time interpretation of the non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0305048
title: Entanglement formation and violation of Bell's inequality with a semiconductor single photon source
authors: David Fattal, Kyo Inoue, Jelena Vuckovic, Charles Santori, Glenn S. Solomon, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305048
abstract: We report the generation of polarization-entangled photons, using a quantum dot single photon source, linear optics and photodetectors. Two photons created independently are observed to violate Bell's inequality. The density matrix describing the polarization state of the postselected photon pairs is also reconstructed, and agrees well with a simple model predicting the quality of entanglement from the known parameters of the single photon source. Our scheme provides a method to generate no more than one entangled photon pair per cycle, a feature useful to enhance quantum cryptography protocols using entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0305049
title: Remarks on the Theory of Angular Momenta
authors: O. Chavoya-Aceves
comments: Detail is included to make it easier to follow the mathematical arguments, in particular for eqs. 25 and 26 (19 and 20 in the previous version); minor stylistic corrections are also included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305049
abstract: A rigorous application of the correspondence rules shows that the operator of the angular momentum of a quantum particle---corresponding to the classical magnitude $\mathbf{l}= m \mathbf{r} \wedge \mathbf{v}$---is given by $\mathbf{\hat{l}}=\mathbf{r}\wedge(-i\hbar\mathbf{\nabla} -\frac{e}{c}\mathbf{A})$ in the presence of an electromagnetic field. Thus, despite the general opinion on the corresponding rules of quantization, the eigenvalues of the angular momentum depend on the configuration of the electromagnetic field. The usual rules of commutation $[{\hat{l}}_i,{\hat{l}}_j]=i\hbar\epsilon_{ijk}{\hat{l}}_k$, that are at the foundation of the calculus of angular momentum and of the theory of \emph{spin}---and Bohm's example of the EPR argument---are not valid in the presence of an electromagnetic field. The expected value of the operator $\mathbf{\hat{l}}=-i\hbar\mathbf{r}\wedge\mathbf{\nabla}$ is not gauge invariant, it depends on the calibration of the electrodynamic potentials.

id: quant-ph/0305050
title: Identity check is QMA-complete
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan, Thomas Beth
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305050
abstract: We define the problem identity check: Given a classical description of a quantum circuit, determine whether it is almost equivalent to the identity. Explicitly, the task is to decide whether the corresponding unitary is close to a complex multiple of the identity matrix with respect to the operator norm. We show that this problem is QMA-complete. A generalization of this problem is equivalence check: Given two descriptions of quantum circuits and a description of a common invariant subspace, decide whether the restrictions of the circuits to this subspace almost coincide. We show that equivalence check is also in QMA and hence QMA-complete.

id: quant-ph/0305051
title: Temperature inversion symmetry in the Casimir effect with an antiperiodic boundary condition
authors: A.C. Aguiar Pinto, T.M. Britto, F. Pascoal, F.S.S. da Rosa
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D67, 107701 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305051
abstract: We present explicitly another example of a temperature inversion symmetry in the Casimir effect for a nonsymmetric boundary condition. We also give an interpretation for our result.

id: quant-ph/0305052
title: Implementation of controlled multi-qudit operations for a solid-state quantum computer based on charge qudits
authors: S. G. Schirmer, A. D. Greentree, D. K. L. Oi
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX4, 4 figures (eps/pdf)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305052
abstract: We consider a mechanism to generate controllable qudit-qudit interactions in a charge-position paradigm for a quantum computer, through the use of auxiliary states. By controlling the tunneling rates onto these auxiliaries from the qudits proper, we can controllably switch the entangling operations. We consider a practical architecture in which to realize such a computer and examine the associated Hilbert space dimension.

id: quant-ph/0305053
title: Introduction to Quantum Computers and Quantum Algorithms
authors: Christof Zalka
comments: Lectures given at the winter school ``IX Seminaire Rhodanien de Physique'' on ``Physics of Entangled States'' in Dolomieu, France, February 26 - March 2 2001. Proceedings (2002) edited by R.Arvieu and S.Weigert
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305053
abstract: This is a short introduction to Quantum Computing intended for physicists. The basic idea of a quantum computer is introduced. Then we concentrate on Shor's integer factoring algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0305054
title: An experimental observation of geometric phases for mixed states using NMR interferometry
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Ping Zou, Mingjun Shi, Leong Chuan Kwek, Jian-Wei Pan, Choo Hiap Oh, Artur Ekert, Daniel K. L. Oi, Marie Ericsson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 100403 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305054
abstract: Examples of geometric phases abound in many areas of physics. They offer both fundamental insights into many physical phenomena and lead to interesting practical implementations. One of them, as indicated recently, might be an inherently fault-tolerant quantum computation. This, however, requires to deal with geometric phases in the presence of noise and interactions between different physical subsystems. Despite the wealth of literature on the subject of geometric phases very little is known about this very important case. Here we report the first experimental study of geometric phases for mixed quantum states. We show how different they are from the well understood, noiseless, pure-state case.

id: quant-ph/0305055
title: Autler-Townes spectroscopy of the $5S_{1/2}-5P_{3/2}-44D$ cascade of cold $^{85}$Rb atoms
authors: B. K. Teo, D. Feldbaum, T. Cubel, J. R. Guest, P. R. Berman, G. Raithel
comments: To be Published in Phys Rev A
journal: Physical Review A 68, 053407 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305055
abstract: We study nonlinear optical effects in the laser excitation of Rydberg states. $5S_{1/2}$ and $5P_{3/2}$ levels of $^{85}$Rb are strongly coupled by a strong laser field and probed by a weak laser tuned to the $5P_{3/2} - 44D$ Rydberg resonance. We observe high contrast Autler-Townes spectra which are dependent on the pump polarization, intensity and detuning. The observed behavior agrees with calculations, which include the effect of optical pumping.

id: quant-ph/0305056
title: Strong superadditivity of the entanglement of formation follows from its additivity
authors: Andrei Pomeransky
comments: revtex, 7 pages, research at Quantware MIPS Center this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305056
abstract: The additivity of both the entanglement of formation and the classical channel capacity is known to be a consequence of the strong superadditivity conjecture. We show that, conversely, the strong superadditivity conjecture follows from the additivity of the entanglement of formation; this means that the two conjectures are equivalent and that the additivity of the classical channel capacity is a consequence of them.

id: quant-ph/0305057
title: Exact solutions to the time-dependent supersymmetric muliphoton Jaynes-Cummings model and the Chiao-Wu model
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Hong-Yi Zhu
comments: 14 pages, Latex. This is a revised version of the published paper: Shen J Q, Zhu H Y 2003 Ann. Phys.(Leipzig) Vol.12 p.131-145
journal: Shen J Q, Zhu H Y 2003 Ann. Phys.(Leipzig) Vol.12 p.131-145
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305057
abstract: By using both the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory and the invariant-related unitary transformation formulation, the present paper obtains the exact solutions to the time-dependent supersymmetric two-level multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model and the Chiao-Wu model that describes the propagation of a photon inside the optical fiber. On the basis of the fact that the two-level multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model possesses the supersymmetric structure, an invariant is constructed in terms of the supersymmetric generators by working in the sub-Hilbert-space corresponding to a particular eigenvalue of the conserved supersymmetric generators (i.e., the time-independent invariant). By constructing the effective Hamiltonian that describes the interaction of the photon with the medium of the optical fiber, it is further verified that the particular solution to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is the eigenfunction of the second-quantized momentum operator of photons field. This, therefore, means that the explicit expression (rather than the hidden form that involves the chronological product) for the time-evolution operator of wave function is obtained by means of the invariant theories.

id: quant-ph/0305058
title: Quantum two and three person duels
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Derek Abbott
comments: v1: 12 pages, 9 figures, spie.cls file included, presented at the SPIE Symposium on Fluctuations and Noise, Santa Fe, June 1-4th 2003; v2: Minor revisions (mainly figures) after conference, 11 pages, 6 figures; v3: Figures 3 and 5 corrected, sections on n-player duels and decoherence added
journal: J. Opt. B 6 (2004) S860-S866
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305058
abstract: In game theory, a popular model of a struggle for survival among three competing agents is a truel, or three person generalization of a duel. Adopting the ideas recently developed in quantum game theory, we present a quantum scheme for the problems of duels and truels. In the classical case, the outcome is sensitive to the precise rules under which the truel is performed and can be counter intuitive. These aspects carry over into our quantum scheme, but interference amongst the players' strategies can arise, leading to game equilibria different from the classical case.

id: quant-ph/0305059
title: Bounds on general entropy measures
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: J. Phys A: Math. Gen. 36, 12255 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305059
abstract: We show how to determine the maximum and minimum possible values of one measure of entropy for a given value of another measure of entropy. These maximum and minimum values are obtained for two standard forms of probability distribution (or quantum state) independent of the entropy measures, provided the entropy measures satisfy a concavity/convexity relation. These results may be applied to entropies for classical probability distributions, entropies of mixed quantum states and measures of entanglement for pure states.

id: quant-ph/0305060
title: Quantum computing with an inhomogeneously broadened ensemble of ions: Suppression of errors from detuning variations by specially adapted pulses and coherent population trapping
authors: Ingela Roos, Klaus Molmer
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. Revised, extended version. More detailed discussion of frequency tolerance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305060
abstract: The proposal for quantum computing with rare-earth-ion qubits in inorganic crystals makes use of the inhomogeneous broadening of optical transitions in the ions to associate individual qubits with ions responding to radiation in selected frequency channels. We show that a class of Gaussian composite pulses and complex sech pulses provide accurate qubit pi-rotations, which are at the same time channel selective on a 5 MHz frequency scale and tolerant to 0.5 MHz deviations of the transition frequency of ions within a single channel. Rotations in qubit space of arbitrary angles and phases are produced by sequences of pi-pulses between the excited state of the ions and coherent superpositions of the qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0305061
title: Classical trajectories and quantum tunneling
authors: Boris Ivlev
comments: 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305061
abstract: The problem of inter-band tunneling in a semiconductor (Zener breakdown) in a nonstationary and homogeneous electric field is solved exactly. Using the exact analytical solution, the approximation based on classical trajectories is studied. A new mechanism of enhanced tunneling through static non-one-dimensional barriers is proposed in addition to well known normal tunneling solely described by a trajectory in imaginary time. Under certain conditions on the barrier shape and the particle energy, the probability of enhanced tunneling is not exponentially small even for non-transparent barriers, in contrast to the case of normal tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0305062
title: Renyi extrapolation of Shannon entropy
authors: Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 12 latex pages, 4 figures included ver.2 with a Corrigendun - A claim that Renyi entropy is a convex function of its argument has been withdrawn
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 10, 297-310 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305062
abstract: Relations between Shannon entropy and Renyi entropies of integer order are discussed. For any N-point discrete probability distribution for which the Renyi entropies of order two and three are known, we provide an lower and an upper bound for the Shannon entropy. The average of both bounds provide an explicit extrapolation for this quantity. These results imply relations between the von Neumann entropy of a mixed quantum state, its linear entropy and traces.

id: quant-ph/0305063
title: A New Quantization Map
authors: D. Mauro
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A315 (2003) 28-35
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305063
abstract: In this paper we find a simple rule to reproduce the algebra of quantum observables using only the commutators and operators which appear in the Koopman-von Neumann (KvN) formulation of classical mechanics. The usual Hilbert space of quantum mechanics becomes embedded in the KvN Hilbert space: in particular it turns out to be the subspace on which the quantum positions Q and momenta P act irreducibly.

id: quant-ph/0305064
title: Fano resonances in the overlapping regime
authors: A. I. Magunov, I. Rotter, S. I. Strakhova
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305064
abstract: The line shape of resonances in the overlapping regime is studied by using the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the effective Hamiltonian of an open quantum system. A generalized expression $\tilde q_k(E)$ for the Fano parameter of the resonance state $k$ is derived that contains the interaction of the state $k$ with neighboured states $l\ne k$ via the continuum. It is energy dependent since the coupling coefficients between the state $k$ and the continuum show a resonance-like behaviour at the energies of the neighboured states $l\ne k$. Under certain conditions, the energy dependent $\tilde q_k(E)$ are equivalent to the generalized complex energy independent Fano parameters that are introduced by Kobayashi et al. in analyzing experimental data. Long-lived states appear mostly isolated from one another in the cross section, also when they are overlapped by short-lived resonance states. The $\tilde q_k(E)$ of narrow resonances allow therefore to study the complicated interplay between different time scales in the regime of overlapping resonance states by controlling them as a function of an external parameter.

id: quant-ph/0305065
title: Comment on Repulsive Casimir Forces
authors: D. Iannuzzi, F. Capasso
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 029101 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305065
abstract: A recent theoretical calculation shows that the Casimir force between two parallel plates can be repulsive for plates with nontrivial magnetic properties (O. Kenneth et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 033001 (2002)). According to the authors, the effect may be observed with known materials, such as ferrites and garnets, and it might be possible to engineer micro- or nanoelectromechanical systems (MEMS or NEMS) that could take advantage of a short range repulsive force. Here we show that on the contrary the Casimir force between two parallel plates in vacuum at micron and submicron distance is always attractive.

id: quant-ph/0305066
title: Relations between bosonic quadrature squeezing and atomic spin squeezing
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Version 2: Title was changed and some points were clarified. An addtional result is that the spin squeezing defined by Wineland et al. also reduces to the bosonic quadrature squeezing in the limit of large number of particles
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 033821 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305066
abstract: We study relations between bosonic quadrature squeezing and atomic spin squeezing, and find that the latter reduces to the former in the limit of a large number of atoms for even and odd states. We demonstrate this reduction by treating even and odd spin coherent states, for which analytical solutions are readily obtained, and prove that even spin coherent states always exhibit spin squeezing, whereas odd spin coherent states do not, analogous to the squeezing characteristic of even and odd bosonic coherent states. Finally, we examine the squeezing transfer between photons and atoms via the Dicke Hamiltonian, where a perfect transfer of squeezing is demonstrated in the limit of a large number of atoms.

id: quant-ph/0305067
title: Fabrication of micro-magnetic traps for cold neutral atoms
authors: Benjamin Lev
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Published in Quantum Information and Computation, 3(5), 450 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305067
abstract: Many proposals for quantum information processing require precise control over the motion of neutral atoms, as in the manipulation of coherent matter waves or the confinement and localization of individual atoms. Patterns of micron-sized wires, fabricated lithographically on a flat substrate, can conveniently produce large magnetic-field gradients and curvatures to trap cold atoms and to facilitate the production of Bose-Einstein condensates. This paper describes tools and techniques for the construction of such devices.

id: quant-ph/0305068
title: The Schrodinger-HJW Theorem
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: v3: Improvements in proofs of Lemma and parts (b) and (e) of the Theorem. Added to Discussion. As published in Found Phys Lett
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 19(1) 95-102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305068
abstract: A concise presentation of Schrodinger's ancilla theorem (1936 Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. 32, 446) and its several recent rediscoveries.

id: quant-ph/0305069
title: Reply to the Comment on ``On the uncertainty relations and squeezed states for the quantum mechanics on a circle''
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 5695-5698
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305069
abstract: In the preceding Comment (quant-ph/0209032) Trifonov disputes our recently proposed uncertainty relations for a quantum particle on a circle. He states that (i) the quantity $\Delta^2(\hat\phi)$ introduced by us representing the uncertainty of the angle is not a proper measure of the position uncertainty and therefore the proposed inequalities can hardly be qualified as a relevant uncertainty relations on a circle; and that (ii) the most suitable uncertainty relations on a circle are those based on the Gram-Robertson matrix. It is shown by examples that both points are erroneous.

id: quant-ph/0305070
title: Decoherence of cold atomic gases in magnetic micro-traps
authors: C. Schroll, W. Belzig, C. Bruder
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043618 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305070
abstract: We derive a model to describe decoherence of atomic clouds in atom-chip traps taking the excited states of the trapping potential into account. We use this model to investigate decoherence for a single trapping well and for a pair of trapping wells that form the two arms of an atom interferometer. Including the discrete spectrum of the trapping potential gives rise to a decoherence mechanism with a decoherence rate $\Gamma$ that scales like $\Gamma \sim 1/r_0^4$ with the distance $r_0$ from the trap minimum to the wire.

id: quant-ph/0305071
title: Bell's inequality violation due to misidentification of spatially non stationary random processes
authors: Louis Sica
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 2003, Vol. 50, No. 15-17, 2465-2474
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305071
abstract: Correlations for the Bell gedankenexperiment are constructed using probabilities given by quantum mechanics, and nonlocal information. They satisfy Bell's inequality and exhibit spatial non stationarity in angle. Correlations for three successive local spin measurements on one particle are computed as well. These correlations also exhibit non stationarity, and satisfy the Bell inequality. In both cases, the mistaken assumption that the underlying process is wide-sense-stationary in angle results in violation of Bell's inequality. These results directly challenge the wide-spread belief that violation of Bell's inequality is a decisive test for nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0305072
title: A neural-network-like quantum information processing system
authors: Mitja Perus, Horst Bischof
comments: 9 pages, an introductory summary of essentials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305072
abstract: The Hopfield neural networks and the holographic neural networks are models which were successfully simulated on conventional computers. Starting with these models, an analogous fundamental quantum information processing system is developed in this article. Neuro-quantum interaction can regulate the "collapse"-readout of quantum computation results. This paper is a comprehensive introduction into associative processing and memory-storage in quantum-physical framework.

id: quant-ph/0305073
title: The Signals and Systems Approach to Quantum Computation
authors: H. Gopalkrishna Gadiyar, K. M. Sangeeta Maini, R. Padma, H.S. Sharatchandra
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305073
abstract: In this note we point out the fact that the proper conceptual setting of quantum computation is the theory of Linear Time Invariant systems. To convince readers of the utility of the approach, we introduce a new model of computation based on the orthogonal group. This makes the link to traditional electronics engineering clear. We conjecture that the speed up achieved in quantum computation is at the cost of increased circuit complexity.

id: quant-ph/0305074
title: Two Photon Anti-Coalescence Interference: the Signature of Two Photon Entanglement
authors: Kaige Wang, Shiyao Zhu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. vol. 64, No. 1, (2003) 22-28
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305074
abstract: We study a general theory on the interference of two-photon wavepacket in a beam splitter. We find that the symmetry of two-photon spectrum plays an important role in the manners of interference. We distinguish the coalescence and anti-coalescence interferences, and prove that the anti-coalescence interference is the signature of photon entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0305075
title: Optimal atomic detection by control of detuning and spatial dependence of laser intensity
authors: B. Navarro, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga, G. C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305075
abstract: Atomic detection by fluorescence may fail because of reflection from the laser or transmission without excitation. The detection probability for a given velocity range may be improved by controlling the detuning and the spatial dependence of the laser intensity. A simple optimization method is discussed and exemplified.

id: quant-ph/0305076
title: Vulnerabilities in Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: D. Richard Kuhn
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305076
abstract: Recently proposed quantum key distribution protocols are shown to be vulnerable to a classic man-in-the-middle attack using entangled pairs created by Eve. It appears that the attack could be applied to any protocol that relies on manipulation and return of entangled qubits to create a shared key. The protocols that are cryptanalyzed in this paper were proven secure with respect to some eavesdropping approaches, and results reported here do not invalidate these proofs. Rather, they suggest that quantum cryptographic protocols, like conventional protocols, may be vulnerable to methods of attack that were not envisaged by their designers.

id: quant-ph/0305077
title: Improved scheme for generation of vibrational trio coherent states of a trapped ion
authors: Hyo Seok Yi, Ba An Nguyen, Jaewan Kim
comments: Latex, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305077
abstract: We improve a previously proposed scheme (Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002) 065401) for generating vibrational trio coherent states of a trapped ion. The improved version is shown to gain a double advantage: (i) it uses only five, instead of eight, lasers and (ii) the generation process can be made remarkably faster.

id: quant-ph/0305078
title: Qubit Disentanglement and Decoherence via Dephasing
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: REVTeX, 9 pages, 1 figure, v2 with minor changes, reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 165322 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305078
abstract: We consider whether quantum coherence in the form of mutual entanglement between a pair of qubits is susceptible to decay that may be more rapid than the decay of the coherence of either qubit individually. An instance of potential importance for solid state quantum computing arises if embedded qubits (spins, quantum dots, Cooper pair boxes, etc.) are exposed to global and local noise at the same time. Here we allow separate phase-noisy channels to affect local and non-local measures of system coherence. We find that the time for decay of the qubit entanglement can be significantly shorter than the time for local dephasing of the individual qubits.

id: quant-ph/0305079
title: Pathways to non-sequential multiple ionization in strong laser fields
authors: Krzysztof Sacha, Bruno Eckhardt
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 36, 3923 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305079
abstract: The outgoing electrons in non-sequential multiple ionization in intense laser fields are strongly correlated. The correlations can be explained within a classical model for interacting electrons in the presence of the external field. Here we extend the previous analysis for two and three electrons to cases with up to eight electrons and identify the saddle configurations that guard the channels for non-sequential multiple ionization. For four and fewer electrons the electrons in the dominant configuration are equivalent, for six and more electrons this is no longer the case. The case of five electrons is marginal, with two almost degenerate transition configurations. The total number of configurations increases rapidly, from 2 configurations for three electrons up to 26 configurations for eight electrons.

id: quant-ph/0305080
title: Separability of rank two quantum states on multiple quantum spaces with different dimensions
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Xiu-Hong Gao, Xiao-Hong Wang, Zhi-Xi Wang, Ke Wu
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 1(2003)37-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305080
abstract: We consider the separability of rank two quantum states on multiple quantum spaces with different dimensions. The sufficient and necessary conditions for separability of these multiparty quantum states are explicitly presented. A nonseparability inequality is also given, for the case where one of the eigenvectors corresponding to nonzero eigenvalues of the density matrix is maximally entangled.

id: quant-ph/0305081
title: Quantum Mechanics in a Rotating Frame
authors: Jeeva Anandan, Jun Suzuki
comments: 8 pages; to appear in Relativity in Rotating Frames, edited by G. Rizzi and M.L. Ruggiero, Kluwer Academic Publishers (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305081
abstract: The rotating frame is considered in quantum mechanics on the basis of the position dependent boost relating this frame to the non rotating inertial frame. We derive the Sagnac phase shift and the spin coupling with the rotation in the non relativistic limit by a simple treatment. By taking the low energy limit of the Dirac equation with a spin connection, we obtain the Hamiltonian for the rotating frame, which gives rise to all the phase shifts discussed before. Furthermore, we obtain a new phase shift due to the spin-orbit coupling.

id: quant-ph/0305082
title: Measurement-induced Nonlinearity in Linear Optics
authors: Stefan Scheel, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro, Peter L. Knight
comments: 13 pages, 7 eps figures, typeset using revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032310 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305082
abstract: We investigate the generation of nonlinear operators with single photon sources, linear optical elements and appropriate measurements of auxiliary modes. We provide a framework for the construction of useful single-mode and two-mode quantum gates necessary for all-optical quantum information processing. We focus our attention generally on using minimal physical resources while providing a transparent and algorithmic way of constructing these operators.

id: quant-ph/0305083
title: Measuring Pancharatnam's relative phase for SO(3) evolutions using spin polarimetry
authors: Peter Larsson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: New title, minor corrections, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042109 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305083
abstract: In polarimetry, a superposition of internal quantal states is exposed to a single Hamiltonian and information about the evolution of the quantal states is inferred from projection measurements on the final superposition. In this framework, we here extend the polarimetric test of Pancharatnam's relative phase for spin$-{1/2}$ proposed by Wagh and Rakhecha [Phys. Lett. A {\bf 197}, 112 (1995)] to spin $j\geq 1$ undergoing noncyclic SO(3) evolution. We demonstrate that the output intensity for higher spin values is a polynomial function of the corresponding spin$-{1/2}$ intensity. We further propose a general method to extract the noncyclic SO(3) phase and visibility by rigid translation of two $\pi /2$ spin flippers. Polarimetry on higher spin states may in practice be done with spin polarized atomic beams.

id: quant-ph/0305084
title: Decoherence of Histories and Hydrodynamic Equations for a Linear Oscillator Chain
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 37 pages, RevTex
journal: Phys Rev D 68, 025018 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305084
abstract: We investigate the decoherence of histories of local densities for linear oscillators models. It is shown that histories of local number, momentum and energy density are approximately decoherent, when coarse-grained over sufficiently large volumes. Decoherence arises directly from the proximity of these variables to exactly conserved quantities (which are exactly decoherent), and not from environmentally-induced decoherence. We discuss the approach to local equilibrium and the subsequent emergence of hydrodynamic equations for the local densities.

id: quant-ph/0305085
title: Teleportation Protocols Requiring Only One Classical Bit
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 7 pages, with additional discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305085
abstract: The standard protocol for teleportation of a quantum state requires an entangled pair of particles and the use of two classical bits of information. Here, we present two protocols for teleportation that require only one classical bit. In the first protocol, chained XOR operations are performed on the particles before one of them is removed to the remote location where the state is being teleported. In the second protocol, three entangled particles are used.

id: quant-ph/0305086
title: On the Emergence of Nonextensivity at the Edge of Quantum Chaos
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Constantino Tsallis, Seth Lloyd
comments: Invited paper to appear in "Decoherence and Entropy in Complex Systems", ed. H.T. Elze, Lecture Notes in Physics (Springer, Heidelberg), in press. 13 pages including 6 figures and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305086
abstract: We explore the border between regular and chaotic quantum dynamics, characterized by a power law decrease in the overlap between a state evolved under chaotic dynamics and the same state evolved under a slightly perturbed dynamics. This region corresponds to the edge of chaos for the classical map from which the quantum chaotic dynamics is derived and can be characterized via nonextensive entropy concepts.

id: quant-ph/0305087
title: About entanglement properties of kaons and tests of hidden variables models
authors: M.Genovese
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A69:022103,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305087
abstract: In this letter we discuss entanglement properties of neutral kaons systems and their use for testing local realism. In particular we show that, as previous proposals, also a scheme recently suggested for performing a test of hidden variable theories against standard quantum mechanics cannot be conclusive.

id: quant-ph/0305088
title: Copenhagen Computation: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Bohr
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: 15 pages. Based on my talk at the Charles H. Bennett 60th Birthday Symposium, 8-9 May, 2003. Submitted to IBM Journal of Research and Development
journal: IBM Journal of Research and Development, Vol. 48, No. 1, 53-62 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305088
abstract: To celebrate the 60th birthday of Charles H.Bennett I (1) publicly announce my referee reports for the original dense coding and teleportation papers, (2) present a very economical solution to the Bernstein-Vazirani problem that does not even hint at interference between multiple universes, and (3) describe how I inadvertently reinvented the Copenhagen interpretation in the course of constructing a simple, straightforward, and transparent introduction to quantum mechanics for computer scientists.

id: quant-ph/0305089
title: What Connects Different Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics?
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 12 pages, Latex, minor clarification
journal: Quo Vadis Quantum Mechanics, ed. A. Elitzur, et.al, Springer (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305089
abstract: We investigate the idea that different interpretations of quantum mechanics can be seen as restrictions of the consistent (or decoherent) histories quantum mechanics of closed systems to particular classes of histories,together with the approximations and descriptions of these histories that the restrictions permit. (Talk at the the workshop Quo Vadis Quantum Mechanics, Center for Frontier Sciences, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, September 24--27, 2002.)

id: quant-ph/0305090
title: Two QCMA-complete problems
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305090
abstract: QMA and QCMA are possible quantum analogues of the complexity class NP. In QCMA the verifier is a quantum program and the proof is classical. In contrast, in QMA the proof is also a quantum state. We show that two known QMA-complete problems can be modified to QCMA-complete problems in a natural way: (1) Deciding whether a 3-local Hamiltonian has low energy states (with energy smaller than a given value) that can be prepared with at most k elementary gates is QCMA-complete, whereas it is QMA-complete when the restriction on the complexity of preparation is dropped. (2) Deciding whether a (classically described) quantum circuit acts almost as the identity on all basis states is QCMA-complete. It is QMA-complete to decide whether it acts on all states almost as the identity.

id: quant-ph/0305091
title: A criterion for testing multi-particle NPT entanglement
authors: B. Zeng, D. L. Zhou, P. Zhang, Z. Xu, L. You
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305091
abstract: We revisit the criterion of multi-particle entanglement based on the overlaps of a given quantum state $\rho$ with maximally entangled states. For a system of $m$ particles, each with $N$ distinct states, we prove that $\rho$ is $m$-particle negative partial transpose (NPT) entangled, if there exists a maximally entangled state $|{\rm MES}>$, such that $<{\rm MES}|\rho|{\rm MES}>>{1}/{N}$. While this sufficiency condition is weaker than the Peres-Horodecki criterion in all cases, it applies to multi-particle systems, and becomes especially useful when the number of particles ($m$) is large. We also consider the converse of this criterion and illustrate its invalidity with counter examples.

id: quant-ph/0305092
title: A high-flux source of polarization-entangled photons from a periodically-poled KTP parametric downconverter
authors: Christopher E. Kuklewicz, Marco Fiorentino, Ga¨¦tan Messin, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 7 pages submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305092
abstract: We have demonstrated a high-flux source of polarization-entangled photons using a type-II phase-matched periodically-poled KTP parametric downconverter in a collinearly propagating configuration. We have observed quantum interference between the single-beam downconverted photons with a visibility of 99% and a measured coincidence flux of 300/s/mW of pump. The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt version of Bell's inequality was violated with a value of 2.711 +/- 0.017.

id: quant-ph/0305093
title: Rotating frames and gauge invariance in two-dimensional many-body quantum systems
authors: Jose Mendez Gamboa, Antonio O. Bouzas
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX2e, AmsLaTeX
journal: J.Phys.A36:7061-7080,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305093
abstract: We study the quantization of many-body systems in two dimensions in rotating coordinate frames using a gauge invariant formulation of the dynamics. We consider reference frames defined by linear and quadratic gauge conditions. In both cases we discuss their Gribov ambiguities and commutator algebra. We construct the momentum operators, inner-product and Hamiltonian in both types of gauges, for systems with and without translation invariance. The analogy with the quantization of QED in non-covariant gauges is emphasized. Our results are applied to quasi-rigid systems in the Eckart frame.

id: quant-ph/0305094
title: An observable measure of entanglement for pure states of multi-qubit systems
authors: Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 3 (6), 619-626 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305094
abstract: Recently, Meyer and Wallach [D.A. Meyer and N.R. Wallach (2002), J. of Math. Phys., 43, pp. 4273] proposed a measure of multi-qubit entanglement that is a function on pure states. We find that this function can be interpreted as a physical quantity related to the average purity of the constituent qubits and show how it can be observed in an efficient manner without the need for full quantum state tomography. A possible realization is described for measuring the entanglement of a chain of atomic qubits trapped in a 3D optical lattice.

id: quant-ph/0305095
title: Is the end in sight for theoretical pseudophysics?
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: To appear in a volume edited by V. Krasnoholovets and F. Columbus and published by Nova Science; 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305095
abstract: The question of what ontological message (if any) is encoded in the formalism of contemporary physics is, to say the least, controversial. The reasons for this state of affairs are psychological and neurobiological. The processes by which the visual world is constructed by our minds, predispose us towards concepts of space, time, and substance that are inconsistent with the spatiotemporal and substantial aspects of the quantum world. In the first part of this chapter, the latter are extracted from the quantum formalism. The nature of a world that is fundamentally and irreducibly described by a probability algorithm is determined. The neurobiological processes responsible for the mismatch between our "natural" concepts of space, time, and substance and the corresponding aspects of the quantum world are discussed in the second part. These natural concepts give rise to pseudoproblems that foil our attempts to make ontological sense of quantum mechanics. If certain psychologically motivated but physically unwarranted assumptions are discarded (in particular our dogged insistence on obtruding upon the quantum world the intrinsically and completely differentiated spatiotemporal background of classical physics), we are in a position to see why our fundamental physical theory is a probability algorithm, and to solve the remaining interpretational problems.

id: quant-ph/0305096
title: Quantum-mechanical motion and the stillness of experimental records
authors: F. Hadi Madjid, John M. Myers
comments: 32 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305096
abstract: Experimenting with metastability in recording devices leads us to wonder about an interface between equations of motion and the stillness of experimental records. Here we delineate an interface between wave functions as language to describe motion and Turing tapes as language to describe experimental records. After extending quantum formalism to make this interface explicit, we report on constraints and freedoms in choosing quantum-mechanical equations to model experiments with devices. We prove that choosing equations of wave functions and operators to achieve a fit between calculated probabilities and experimental records requires reaching beyond both logic and the experimental records. Although informed by experience, a "reach beyond" can fairly be called a guess. Recognizing that particles as features of wave functions depend on guesswork, we introduce their use not as objects of physical investigation but as elements of thought in quantum-mechanical models of devices. We make informed guesses to offer a quantum-mechanical model of a 1-bit recording device in a metastable condition. Probabilities calculated from the model fit an experimental record of an oscillation in a time-varying probability, showing a temperature-independent role for Planck's constant in what heretofore was viewed as a "classical" electronic device.

id: quant-ph/0305097
title: Numerical Analysis of Boosting Scheme for Scalable NMR Quantum Computation
authors: Akira SaiToh, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 14 pages, 18 figures, RevTeX4, v2,v3: typos corrected, v4: minor changes in PROGRAM 1, conforming it to the actual programs used in the simulation, v5: correction of a typographical error in the inequality sign in PROGRAM 1, v6: this version contains a new section on classical correlations, v7: correction of a wrong use of terminology, v8: Appendix A has been added, v9: published in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 71, 022303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305097
abstract: Among initialization schemes for ensemble quantum computation beginning at thermal equilibrium, the scheme proposed by Schulman and Vazirani [L. J. Schulman and U. V. Vazirani, in Proceedings of the 31st ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC'99) (ACM Press, New York, 1999), pp. 322-329] is known for the simple quantum circuit to redistribute the biases (polarizations) of qubits and small time complexity. However, our numerical simulation shows that the number of qubits initialized by the scheme is rather smaller than expected from the von Neumann entropy because of an increase in the sum of the binary entropies of individual qubits, which indicates a growth in the total classical correlation. This result--namely, that there is such a significant growth in the total binary entropy--disagrees with that of their analysis.

id: quant-ph/0305098
title: Relaxation and dephasing in a many-fermion generalization of the Caldeira-Leggett model
authors: Florian Marquardt, D. S. Golubev
comments: revised version with new analytical expressions and other changes requested by referee, one new figure, reference to long version in cond-mat/0409401; 5 pages, 4 figures; see this http URL for an introduction to this topic
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 130404 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305098
abstract: We analyze a model system of fermions in a harmonic oscillator potential under the influence of a fluctuating force generated by a bath of harmonic oscillators. This represents an extension of the well-known Caldeira-Leggett model to the case of many fermions. Using the method of bosonization, we calculate Green's functions and discuss relaxation and dephasing of a single extra particle added above the Fermi sea. We also extend our analysis to a more generic coupling between system and bath, that results in complete thermalization of the system.

id: quant-ph/0305099
title: Covariant description of spin 1/2 particles in self--action
authors: Yair Goldin
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figure, revtex 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305099
abstract: The bispinor wave function finds its fundamental application in the study of electrons, neutrinos and protons as particles bound by their own potentials. Classical electromagnetism and the Dirac electron theory appear to be natural extensions of the physics that rules the electron itself. However, the charge density and the negative energy eigenvalues are two concepts which cannot survive further scrutiny. The electron and the proton resemble minute planetary systems where the bispinor terms defining their physical properties revolve with definite angular momentum around the singular point of the particles' potentials. The mass of the electron--neutrino in relation to the electron's and the mass of the latter in relation to the proton's are determined under particular assumptions. The most important feature of the new approach is the faithful representation of free particles at rest with respect to inertial systems of reference. This certainly enhances the foundation of physics; precisely in the realm of Quantum Mechanics, where the customary description of free electrons is a confusing consequence of the limited scope of the Schr\"{o}dinger and Dirac equations.

id: quant-ph/0305100
title: Polynomial time quantum computation with advice
authors: Harumichi Nishimura, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: 9 pages
journal: Information Processing Letters 90 (2004) 195-204
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305100
abstract: Advice is supplementary information that enhances the computational power of an underlying computation. This paper focuses on advice that is given in the form of a pure quantum state and examines the influence of such advice on the behaviors of an underlying polynomial-time quantum computation with bounded-error probability.

id: quant-ph/0305101
title: Transfer of an unknown quantum state, quantum networks, and memory
authors: Asoka Biswas, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4, Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305101
abstract: We present a protocol for transfer of an unknown quantum state. The protocol is based on a two-mode cavity interacting dispersively in a sequential manner with three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration. We propose a scheme for quantum networking using an atomic channel. We investigate the effect of cavity decoherence in the entire process. Further, we demonstrate the possibility of an efficient quantum memory for arbitrary superposition of two modes of a cavity contaning one photon.

id: quant-ph/0305102
title: Statistical Effects in the Multistream Model for Quantum Plasmas
authors: Dan Anderson, Bj?rn Hall, Mietek Lisak, Mattias Marklund
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.E65 (2002) 046417
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305102
abstract: A statistical multistream description of quantum plasmas is formulated, using the Wigner-Poisson system as dynamical equations. A linear stability analysis of this system is carried out, and it is shown that a Landau-like damping of plane wave perturbations occurs due to the broadening of the background Wigner function that arises as a consequence of statistical variations of the wave function phase. The Landau-like damping is shown to suppress instabilities of the one- and two-stream type.

id: quant-ph/0305103
title: Quantum Complexity of Parametric Integration
authors: Carsten Wiegand
comments: Paper submitted to the Journal of Complexity, 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305103
abstract: We study parametric integration of functions from the class C^r([0,1]^{d_1+d_2}) to C([0,1]^{d_1}) in the quantum model of computation. We analyze the convergence rate of parametric integration in this model and show that it is always faster than the optimal deterministic rate and in some cases faster than the rate of optimal randomized classical algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0305104
title: Estimation of unitary quantum operations
authors: Manuel A. Ballester
comments: 6 pages. Revised version. Typos corrected. Some discussion added. Reference fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305104
abstract: The problem of optimally estimating an unknown unitary quantum operation with the aid of entanglement is addressed. The idea is to prepare an entangled pair, apply the unknown unitary to one of the two parts and then measure the joint output state. This measurement could be an entangled one or it could be separable (e.g., LOCC). A comparison is made between these possibilities and it is shown that by using non-separable measurements one can improve the accuracy of the estimation by a factor of $2(d+1)/d$ where $d$ is the dimension of the Hilbert space on which $U$ acts.

id: quant-ph/0305105
title: Long-Distance Quantum Communication with Entangled Photons using Satellites
authors: Markus Aspelmeyer, Thomas Jennewein, Martin Pfennigbauer, Walter Leeb, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures; submitted to IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, special issue on "Quantum Internet Technologies"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305105
abstract: The use of satellites to distribute entangled photon pairs (and single photons) provides a unique solution for long-distance quantum communication networks. This overcomes the principle limitations of Earth-bound technology, i.e. the narrow range of some 100 km provided by optical fiber and terrestrial free-space links.

id: quant-ph/0305106
title: Information-Theoretic Comparison of Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: K. Ch. Chatzisavvas, C. P. Panos, S. E. Massen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305106
abstract: An information measure inspired by Onicescu's information energy and Uffink's information measure (recently discussed by Brukner and Zeilinger) are calculated as functions of the number of particles $N$ for fermionic systems (nuclei and atomic clusters) and correlated bosonic systems (atoms in a trap). Our results are compared with previous ones obtained for Shannon's information entropy, where a universal property was derived for atoms, nuclei, atomic clusters and correlated bosons. It is indicated that Onicescu's and Uffink's definitions are finer measures of information entropy than Shannon's.

id: quant-ph/0305107
title: Translational Entanglement of Dipole-Dipole Interacting Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: T. Opatrny, B. Deb, G. Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305107
abstract: We propose and investigate a realization of the position- and momentum-correlated Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) states [Phys. Rev. 47, 777 (1935)] that have hitherto eluded detection. The realization involves atom pairs that are confined to adjacent sites of two mutually shifted optical lattices and are entangled via laser-induced dipole-dipole interactions. The EPR "paradox" with translational variables is then modified by lattice-diffraction effects, and can be verified to a high degree of accuracy in this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0305108
title: Entanglement and correlation in anisotropic quantum spin systems
authors: Ulrich Glaser, Helmut B¨¹ttner, Holger Fehske
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 032318 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305108
abstract: Analytical expressions for the entanglement measures concurrence, i-concurrence and 3-tangle in terms of spin correlation functions are derived using general symmetries of the quantum spin system. These relations are exploited for the one-dimensional XXZ-model, in particular the concurrence and the critical temperature for disentanglement are calculated for finite systems with up to six qubits. A recent NMR quantum error correction experiment is analyzed within the framework of the proposed theoretical approach.

id: quant-ph/0305109
title: Proper magnetic fields for nonadiabatic geometric quantum gates in NMR
authors: Kazuto Oshima, Koji Azuma
comments: LaTeX, 4pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305109
abstract: In a scheme of nonadiabatic purely geometric quantum gates in nuclear magnetic resonance(NMR) systems we propose proper magnitudes of magnetic fields that are suitable for an experiment. We impose a natural condition and reduce the degree of freedom of the magnetic fields to the extent. By varying the magnetic fields with essentially one-dimensional degree of freedom, any spin state can acquire arbitrary purely geometric phase \phi_{g}=-2\pi(1-cos{theta}), 0 < cos{\theta} < 1. This is an essential ingredient for constructing universal geometric quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0305110
title: On The Relevance Of Fair Sampling Assumption In The Recent Bell Photonic Experiments
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 13 pages, no figure, one table. Last version
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Vol. 52, No. 10, 1405-1414, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305110
abstract: In the experimental verification of Bell's inequalities in real photonic experiments, it is generally believed that the so-called fair sampling assumption (which means that a small fraction of results provide a fair statistical sample) has an unavoidable role. Here, we want to show that the interpretation of these experiments could be feasible, if some different alternative assumptions other than the fair sampling were used. For this purpose, we derive an efficient Bell-type inequality which is a CHSH-type inequality in real experiments. Quantum mechanics violates our proposed inequality, independent of the detection-efficiency problems.

id: quant-ph/0305111
title: Quantum Limits of Stochastic Cooling of a Bosonic Gas
authors: D. Ivanov, S. Wallentowitz, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 061401(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305111
abstract: The quantum limits of stochastic cooling of trapped atoms are studied. The energy subtraction due to the applied feedback is shown to contain an additional noise term due to atom-number fluctuations in the feedback region. This novel effect is shown to dominate the cooling efficiency near the condensation point. Furthermore, we show first results that indicate that Bose--Einstein condensation could be reached via stochastic cooling.

id: quant-ph/0305112
title: Quantum Fingerprinting with a Single Particle
authors: Serge Massar
comments: 6 pages including 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305112
abstract: We show that the two slit experiment in which a single quantum particle interferes with itself can be interpreted as a quantum fingerprinting protocol: the interference pattern exhibited by the particle contains information about the environment it encountered in the slits which would require much more communication to learn classically than is required quantum mechanically. An extension to the case where the particle has many internal degrees of freedom is suggested and its interpretation is discussed in detail. A possible experimental realization is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0305113
title: Operationalistic Orthogonality Condition for Single-Mode Biphotons (Qutrits)
authors: A.A. Zhukov, G.A. Maslennikov, M.V. Chekhova
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: JETP Letters Vol. 76, # 10, 2002, pp.596-599
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305113
abstract: An arbitrary polarization state of a single-mode biphoton is considered. The operationalistic criterion is formulated for the orthogonality og these states. It can be used to separate a biphoton with an arbitrary degree of polarization from a set of biphotons orthogonal to it. This is necessary fro the implementation of quantum cryptography protocol based on three-level systems. The experimental test of this criterion amounts to the observation of the anticorrelation effect for a biphoton with an arbitraty polarization state.

id: quant-ph/0305114
title: Illustrating the concept of quantum information
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: 10 pages. Article for Charles H. Bennett 60th Birthday Symposium. Submitted to IBM J. Res. Dev
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305114
abstract: Over the past decade quantum information theory has developed into a vigorous field of research despite the fact that quantum information, as a precise concept, is undefined. Indeed the very idea of viewing quantum states as carriers of some kind of information (albeit unknowable in classical terms), leads naturally to interesting questions that might otherwise never have been asked, and corresponding new insights. We will discuss some illustrative examples, including a strengthening of the well known no-cloning theorem leading to a property of permanence for quantum information, and considerations arising from information compression that reflect on fundamental issues.

id: quant-ph/0305115
title: Practical Realization of the Quantum Cryptography Protocol Exploiting Polarization Encoding in the Qutrits
authors: G.A. Maslennikov, A.A. Zhukov, M.V. Chekhova, S.P. Kulik
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305115
abstract: We propose and discuss a specific scheme allowing to realize a Quantum Cryptography qutrit protocol. This protocol exploits the polarization properties of single frequency and single spatial mode biphotons.

id: quant-ph/0305116
title: Entangled state preparation via dissipation-assisted adiabatic passages
authors: Carsten Marr, Almut Beige, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, minor changes, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 033817 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305116
abstract: The main obstacle for coherent control of open quantum systems is decoherence due to different dissipation channels and the inability to precisely control experimental parameters. To overcome these problems we propose to use dissipation-assisted adiabatic passages. These are relatively fast processes where the presence of spontaneous decay rates corrects for errors due to non-adiabaticity while the system remains in a decoherence-free state and behaves as predicted for an adiabatic passage. As a concrete example we present a scheme to entangle atoms by moving them in and out of an optical cavity.

id: quant-ph/0305117
title: Why can states and measurement outcomes be represented as vectors?
authors: Piero G. L. Mana
comments: LaTeX2e/RevTeX4, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305117
abstract: It is shown how, given a "probability data table" for a quantum or classical system, the representation of states and measurement outcomes as vectors in a real vector space follows in a natural way. Some properties of the resulting sets of these vectors are discussed, as well as some connexions with the quantum-mechanical formalism.

id: quant-ph/0305118
title: Quantum dense coding by spatial state entanglement
authors: O. Akhavan, A.T. Rezakhani, M. Golshani
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Revtex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 313, 261 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305118
abstract: We have presented a theoretical extended version of dense coding protocol using entangled position state of two particles shared between two parties. A representation of Bell states and the required unitary operators are shown utilizing symmetric normalized Hadamard matrices. In addition, some explicit and conceivable forms for the unitary operators are presented by using some introduced basic operators. It is shown that, the proposed version is logarithmically efficient than some other multi-qubit dense coding protocols.

id: quant-ph/0305119
title: Probability representation of kinetic equation for open quantum system
authors: V. I. Man'ko, V. A. Sharapov, E. V. Shchukin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305119
abstract: The tomographic probability distribution is used to decribe the kinetic equations for open quantum systems. Damped oscillator is studied. Purity parameter evolution for different damping regime is considered.

id: quant-ph/0305120
title: Comparing the states of many quantum systems
authors: Igor Jex, Erika Andersson, Anthony Chefles
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. Corrected a misprint on p. 7 and added a few references. Accepted for publication in J Mod Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305120
abstract: We investigate how to determine whether the states of a set of quantum systems are identical or not. This paper treats both error-free comparison, and comparison where errors in the result are allowed. Error-free comparison means that we aim to obtain definite answers, which are known to be correct, as often as possible. In general, we will have to accept also inconclusive results, giving no information. To obtain a definite answer that the states of the systems are not identical is always possible, whereas, in the situation considered here, a definite answer that they are identical will not be possible. The optimal universal error-free comparison strategy is a projection onto the totally symmetric and the different non-symmetric subspaces, invariant under permutations and unitary transformations. We also show how to construct optimal comparison strategies when allowing for some errors in the result, minimising either the error probability, or the average cost of making an error. We point out that it is possible to realise universal error-free comparison strategies using only linear elements and particle detectors, albeit with less than ideal efficiency. Also minimum-error and minimum-cost strategies may sometimes be realised in this way. This is of great significance for practical applications of quantum comparison.

id: quant-ph/0305121
title: A footnote to Nelson's interpretation of the two-slit experiment
authors: Michele Pavon
comments: 8 pages, dedicated to Francesco Guerra on the occasion of his 60th birthday, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305121
abstract: We seek to complement Nelson's work on the two-slit experiment by showing that the two-slit process, whose density exhibits the characteristic interference pattern, may be obtained as the model after the beam has reached the screen by means of a variational mechanism. The one-slit process, modeling the beam before it reaches the screen, plays the role of a reference model.

id: quant-ph/0305122
title: Optomechanical characterization of acoustic modes in a mirror
authors: T. Briant, P.F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann, M. Pinard
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev. A68 (2003) 033823
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305122
abstract: We present an experimental study of the internal mechanical vibration modes of a mirror. We determine the frequency repartition of acoustic resonances via a spectral analysis of the Brownian motion of the mirror, and the spatial profile of the acoustic modes by monitoring their mechanical response to a resonant radiation pressure force swept across the mirror surface. We have applied this technique to mirrors with cylindrical and plano-convex geometries, and compared the experimental results to theoretical predictions. We have in particular observed the gaussian modes predicted for plano-convex mirrors.

id: quant-ph/0305123
title: Quasi-Hermiticity in infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: R. Kretschmer, L. Szymanowski
comments: Published version. Title changed, discussion expanded; 11 pages, uses elsart.cls
journal: Phys. Lett. A 325 (2004) 112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305123
abstract: In infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, the application of the concept of quasi-Hermiticity to the description of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real spectra may lead to problems related to the definition of the metric operator. We discuss these problems by examining some examples taken from the recent literature and propose a formulation that is free of these difficulties.

id: quant-ph/0305124
title: A second rank divergence-free tensor, constructed as a second order polynomial in Riemann
authors: Dmitriy Palatnik
comments: withdrawn; result isn't new
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305124
abstract: Preprint is withdrawn, since result isn't new.

id: quant-ph/0305125
title: Cooperative fluorescence effects for dipole-dipole interacting systems with experimentally relevant level configurations
authors: Volker Hannstein, Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043826 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305125
abstract: The mutual dipole-dipole interaction of atoms in a trap can affect their fluorescence. Extremely large effects were reported for double jumps between different intensity periods in experiments with two and three Ba^+ ions for distances in the range of about ten wave lengths of the strong transition while no effects were observed for Hg^+ at 15 wave lengths. In this theoretical paper we study this question for configurations with three and four levels which model those of Hg^+ and Ba^+, respectively. For two systems in the Hg^+ configuration we find cooperative effects of up to 30% for distances around one or two wave lengths, about 5% around ten wave lengths, and, for larger distances in agreement with experiments, practically none. This is similar for two V systems. However, for two four-level configurations, which model two Ba^+ ions, cooperative effects are practically absent, and this latter result is at odds with the experimental findings for Ba^+.

id: quant-ph/0305126
title: General Probabilistic Framework of Randomness
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 36 pages, submitted to J.Physics A: Math.Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305126
abstract: We introduce a new mathematical framework for the probabilistic description of an experiment upon a system of any type in terms of initial information representing this system. Based on the notions of an information state, an information state space and a generalized observable, this general framework covers the description of a wide range of experimental situations including those where, with respect to a system, an experiment is perturbing. We prove that, to any experiment upon a system, there corresponds a unique generalized observable on a system initial information state space, which defines the probability distribution of outcomes under this experiment. We specify the case where initial information on a system provides "no knowledge" for the description of an experiment. Incorporating in a uniform way the basic notions of conventional probability theory and the non-commutativity aspects and the basic notions of quantum measurement theory, our framework clarifies the principle difference between Kolmogorov's model in probability theory and the statistical model of quantum theory. Both models are included into our framework as particular cases. We show that the phenomenon of "reduction" of a system initial information state is inherent, in general, to any non-destructive experiment and upon a system of any type. Based on our general framework, we introduce the probabilistic model for the description of non-destructive experiments upon a quantum system and prove that positive bounded linear mappings on the Banach space of trace class operators, arising in the description of experiments upon a quantum system, are completely positive.

id: quant-ph/0305127
title: Wigner distributions for non Abelian finite groups of odd order
authors: N. Mukunda, S. Chaturvedi, R. Simon
comments: Latex, 9 pages, text restructured and some new material added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305127
abstract: Wigner distributions for quantum mechanical systems whose configuration space is a finite group of odd order are defined so that they correctly reproduce the marginals and have desirable transformation properties under left and right translations. While for the Abelian case we recover known results, though from a different perspective, for the non Abelian case, our results appear to be new.

id: quant-ph/0305128
title: Spectrum of One-Dimensional Anharmonic Oscillators
authors: H. A. Alhendi, E. I. Lashin
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables; there are changes to match the version published in Can. J. Phys
journal: Can.J.Phys. 83 (2005) 541
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305128
abstract: We use a power-series expansion to calculate the eigenvalues of anharmonic oscillators bounded by two infinite walls. We show that for large finite values of the separation of the walls, the calculated eigenvalues are of the same high accuracy as the values recently obtained for the unbounded case by the inner-product quantization method. We also apply our method to the Morse potential. The eigenvalues obtained in this case are in excellent agreement with the exact values for the unbounded Morse potential.

id: quant-ph/0305129
title: Quantum measurements and new concepts for experiments with trapped ions
authors: Christof Wunderlich, Christoph Balzer
comments: Review Article. 69 pages. Submitted to "Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics" on 25 November 2002. Replaced with published version
journal: Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Vol. 49, Academic Press, 2003, 295-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305129
abstract: Experiments with individual trapped ions are ideally suited to investigate fundamental issues of quantum mechanics such as the measurement process. At the same time electrodynamically trapped ions have been used with great success to demonstrate quantum logic operations and are a candidate for scalable quantum computing. In this article a brief introduction is given to the basic steps that constitute a quantum measurement; in particular, measurements on single quantum systems are considered. Then experiments with single Yb+ are reviewed demonstrating the quantum Zeno paradox, as well as an experiment where an adaptive algorithm for quantum state estimation of qubits was implemented. In the last section of this article -- devoted to experiments and new ideas related to quantum information processing (QIP) with trapped ions -- the realization of various quantum channels using a hyperfine qubit of Yb+ is briefly discussed. Then a concept for QIP with trapped ions is reviewed where rf or microwave radiation is used instead of laser light for coherent manipulation of a collection of ions. In a suitably modified trap the ions form an artificial ion "molecule" to which the techniques developed in nuclear magnetic resonance and electron spin resonance experiments can be directly applied. Finally, coherent excitation of optical electric quadrupole transitions in Yb+ and Ba+ is reported. In addition, robust Raman cooling of a pair of Ba+ ions is reviewed.

id: quant-ph/0305130
title: Efficient scheme for quantum entanglement, quantum information transfer, and quantum gate with three-level SQUID qubits in cavity QED
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: Revtex, 4 pages, 1 figure, Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305130
abstract: A novel scheme is proposed for realizing quantum entanglement, quantum information transfer and a set of universal quantum gates with superconducting-quantum-interference-device (SQUID) qubits in cavity QED. In the scheme, the two logical states of a qubit are the two lowest levels of the SQUID. An intermediate level of the SQUID is utilized to facilitate coherent control and manipulation of quantum states of the qubits. The method presented here does not create finite intermediate-level population or cavity-photon population during the operations. Thus, decoherence due to spontaneous decay from the intermediate levels is minimized and the requirement on the quality factor of the cavity is greatly loosened.

id: quant-ph/0305131
title: On compatibility of Bohmian mechanics with standard quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305131
abstract: It is shown that the apparent incompatibility of Bohmian mechanics with standard quantum mechanics, found by Akhavan and Golshani quant-ph/0305020, is an artefact of the fact that the initial wavefunction they use, being proportional to a $\delta$-function, is not a regular wavefunction.

id: quant-ph/0305132
title: Noncyclic mixed state phase in SU(2) polarimetry
authors: Peter Larsson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: References update, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 315, 12 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305132
abstract: We demonstrate that Pancharatnam's relative phase for mixed spin$-{1/2}$ states in noncyclic SU(2) evolution can be measured polarimetrically.

id: quant-ph/0305133
title: Two-component Fermi gas in a Harmonic Trap
authors: X. X. Yi, H. J. Wang, H. T. Cui, C. M. Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica Scripta 66, 284(2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305133
abstract: We consider a mixture of two-component Fermi gases at low temperature. The density profile of this degenerate Fermi gas is calculated under the semiclassical approximation. The results show that the fermion-fermion interactions make a large correction to the density profile at low temperature. The phase separation of such a mixture is also discussed for both attractive and repulsive interatomic interactions, and the numerical calculations demonstrate the exist of a stable temperature region $T_{c1}<T<T_{c2}$ for the mixture. In addition, we give the critical temperature of the BCS-type transition in this system beyond the semiclassical approximation.

id: quant-ph/0305134
title: Representation of Boolean Quantum Circuits as Reed-Muller Expansions
authors: Ahmed Younes, Julian Miller
comments: 12 pages
journal: International Journal of Electronics. Vol.(No.7)pp. 431-444 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305134
abstract: In this paper we show that there is a direct correspondence between quantum Boolean operations and certain forms of classical (non-quantum) logic known as Reed-Muller expansions. This allows us to readily convert Boolean circuits into their quantum equivalents. A direct result of this is that the problem of synthesis and optimization of quantum Boolean logic can be tackled within the field of Reed-Muller logic.

id: quant-ph/0305135
title: Bell inequality, nonlocality and analyticity
authors: M. Socolovsky
comments: 6 pages, plain tex, personal macro included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305135
abstract: The Bell and the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequalities are shown to hold for both the cases of complex and real analytic nonlocality in the setting parameters of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments for spin 1/2 particles and photons, in both the deterministic and stochastic cases. Therefore, the theoretical and experimental violation of the inequalities by quantum mechanics excludes all hidden variables theories with that kind of nonlocality. In particular, real analyticity leads to negative definite correlations, in contradiction with quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0305136
title: Key Disclosing in Multiphotons with Quantum Cloning
authors: Tsuyoshi Nishioka, Toshio Hasegawa, Hirokazu Ishizuka
comments: RevTeX, 6 pages, 4figures, The layout of the figures are changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305136
abstract: Multiphoton state in quantum cryptography decreases its security. Key disclosing with universal quantum cloning machine (UQCM) is considered in explicit manner. Although UQCM cannot make perfect clones, there is some invariant quantity between the original photon and the imperfect clones. The invariant quantity, the direction of Stokes parameters, tells us the auxiliary information leading into key information. The attack, then, corresponds to some kind of quantum non-demolition measurement. Its application to recent high-performance quantum cryptography, Y-00 protocol, is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0305137
title: An Explanation of Spin Based on Classical Mechanics and Electrodynamics
authors: O. Chavoya-Aceves
comments: 11 pages, arguments improved to support the main conclussions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305137
abstract: It is proved that, according to Classical Mechanics and Electrodynamics, the trajectory of the center of mass of a neutral system of electrical charges can be deflected by an inhomogeneous magnetic field, even if its internal angular momentum is zero. This challenges the common view about the function of the Stern-Gerlach apparatus, as resolving the eigen-states of an intrinsic angular momentum. Doubts are cast also on the supposed failure of Schrodinger's theory to explain the properties of atoms in presence of magnetic fields without introducing spin variables.

id: quant-ph/0305138
title: Single-Step Distillation Protocol with Generalized Beam Splitters
authors: M.A. Martin-Delgado, M. Navascues
comments: REVTEX4 file, color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305138
abstract: We develop a distillation protocol for multilevel qubits (qudits) using generalized beam splitters like in the proposal of Pan et al. for ordinary qubits. We find an acceleration with respect to the scheme of Bennet et al. when extended to qudits. It is also possible to distill entangled pairs of photons carrying orbital angular momenta (OAM) states that conserves the total angular momenta as those produced in recent experiments.

id: quant-ph/0305139
title: Comment on ``Polynomial-Time Simulation of Pairing Models on a Quantum Computer''
authors: J. Dukelsky, J. M. Roman, G. Sierra
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 90 (2003) 249803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305139
abstract: Comment on the Letter ``Polynomial-Time Simulation of Pairing Models on a Quantum Computer'', L. A. Wu, M. S. Byrd and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057904 (2002).

id: quant-ph/0305140
title: The quantum way to diagonalize hermitean matrices
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 7 pages
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 51 (2003) 249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305140
abstract: An entirely quantum mechanical approach to diagonalize hermitean matrices has been presented recently. Here, the genuinely quantum mechanical approach is considered in detail for (2x2) matrices. The method is based on the measurement of quantum mechanical observables which provides the computational resource. In brief, quantum mechanics is able to directly address and output eigenvalues of hermitean matrices. The simple low-dimensional case allows one to illustrate the conceptual features of the general method which applies to (NxN) hermitean matrices.

id: quant-ph/0305141
title: Gauge equivalence classes of flat connections in the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: M. A. Aguilar, J. M. Isidro, M. Socolovsky
comments: 4 pages, plain tex, personal macro included
journal: Adv.Appl.Clifford Algebras 14 (2004) 179-184
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305141
abstract: In this note we present a simplified derivation of the fact that the moduli space of flat connections in the abelian Aharonov-Bohm effect is isomorphic to the circle. The length of this circle is the electric charge.

id: quant-ph/0305142
title: A simple unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment protocol via quantum teleportation
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 5 pages, revtex4; significant changes (see footnote)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305142
abstract: By using local quantum teleportation of a fixed state to one qubit of an entangled pair sent from the other party, it is shown how one party can commit a bit with only classical information as evidence that results in an unconditionally secure protocol. The well-known ``impossibility proof'' does not cover such protocols due to its different commitment and opening prescriptions, which necessitate actual quantum measurements among different possible systems that cannot be entangled as a consequence.

id: quant-ph/0305143
title: Another simple unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment protocol -- beating entanglement with entanglement
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 3 pages, revtex4; title has changed, other significant changes (see footnote)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305143
abstract: It is shown how the evidence state space in quantum bit commitment may be made to depend on the bit value 0 or 1 with split entangled pairs. As a consequence, one can obtain a protocol that is perfectly concealing, but is also $\epsilon$-binding because the bit-value dependent evidence space prevents the committing party from cheating by means of a local transformation that is independent of the part of evidence state space that has never been in his possession.

id: quant-ph/0305144
title: How to Build Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Protocols
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 10 pages, revtex4; significant changes (see footnote)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305144
abstract: The ``impossibility proof'' on unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is critically analyzed. Many possibilities for obtaining a secure bit commitment protocol are indicated, purely on the basis of two-way quantum communications, which are not covered by the impossibility proof formulation. They are classified under six new types of protocols, with security proofs for specific examples on four types. Reasons for some previously failed attempts at obtaining secure protocols are also indicated.

id: quant-ph/0305145
title: Quantum deleting and Signalling
authors: Arun K. Pati, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: Latex file, 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A Vol 315, 208 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305145
abstract: It is known that if we can clone an arbitrary state we can send signal faster than light. Here, we show that deletion of unknown quantum state against a copy can lead to superluminal signalling. But erasure of unknown quantum state does not imply faster than light signalling.

id: quant-ph/0305146
title: From quantum theory to classical dynamics under spontaneous wave-packet reduction
authors: C. F. Huang
comments: Relevant topics such as quantum trajectories and a localization model are discussed in the revised manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305146
abstract: A quantum master equation of the Lindblad form is obtained in this paper by considering the spontaneous wave-packet reduction. Different classical equations can be derived after exactly mapping such a quantum master equation to a continuous time random walk (CTRW). Although this CTRW is a quasiclassical walk, the effects due to the quantum interference can still be important in such a walk. Macroscopically, we shall consider the uncertainty of the potential and determine the effective transition probability by a family of Schr\"{o}dinger equations (or operators).

id: quant-ph/0305147
title: Dynamics of the entanglement rate in the presence of decoherence
authors: X. X. Yi, H. T. Cui, X. G. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 306,286(2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305147
abstract: The dynamics of the entanglement rate are investigated in this paper for pairwise interaction and two special sets of initial states. The results show that for the given interaction and the decoherence scheme, the competitions between decohering and entangling lead to two different results--some initial states may be used to prepare entanglement while the others do not. A criterion on decohering and entangling is also presented and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0305148
title: Unusual Properties of Superoscillating Particles
authors: Achim Kempf, Paulo J. S. G. Ferreira
comments: 4 pages, revtex
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 12067-12076
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305148
abstract: It has been found that functions can oscillate locally much faster than their Fourier transform would suggest is possible - a phenomenon called superoscillation. Here, we consider the case of superoscillating wave functions in quantum mechanics. We find that they possess rather unusual properties which raise measurement theoretic, thermodynamic and information theoretic issues. We explicitly determine the wave functions with the most pronounced superoscillations, together with their scaling behavior. We also address the question how superoscillating wave functions could be produced.

id: quant-ph/0305149
title: Global causality in space-time universe
authors: Alexander A. Chernitskii
comments: 8 pages, the talk on Nato Advanced Research Workshop "The Nature of Time: Geometry, Physics & Perception" May 21-24, 2002, Tatranska Lomnica, Slovak Republic
journal: R. Buccheri et al. (eds.), The Nature of Time: Geometry, Physics and Perception, NATO Science Series, II. Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry -- Vol. 95, 307-313, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305149
abstract: The problems connected with a causality of space-time universe and with the paradox of Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen are considered. A main philosophical problem and its possible solutions are briefly discussed. A concept of unified local field theory is considered. It is shown that in the framework of such theory there are nonlocal correlations between space separate events. These correlations are predicted by quantum mechanics and they are confirmed by Aspect type experiments for testing of Bell inequality. The presence of these nonlocal correlations in the framework of a local field theory is connected with the fact that its solution is nonlocal in character. Prospects for possible applications of an unified local field theory are considered.

id: quant-ph/0305150
title: Particle and Field Symmetries and Noncommutative Geometry
authors: Ajay Patwardhan
comments: 9 pages, no figures, ajpatwar@imsc.res.in
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305150
abstract: The development of Noncommutative Geometry is creating a reworking and new possibilities in physics. This paper identifies some of the commutation and derivation structures that arise in particle and field interactions and fundamental symmetries. The requirements of coexisting structures, and their consistency, produce a mathematical framework that underlies a fundamental physics theory. Among other developments in Quantum theory of particles and fields are the symmetries of gauge fields and the Fermi-Bose symmetry of particles. These involve a gauge covariant derivation and the action functionals; and commutation algebras and Bogoliubov transforms. The non commutative Theta form introduces an additional and fundamental structure. This paper obtains the interrelations of various structures, and the conditions for the symmetries of Fermionic/Bosonic particles interacting with Yang Mills gauge fields. Many example physical systems are being solved, and the mathematical formalism is being created to understand the fundamental basis of physics.

id: quant-ph/0305151
title: Phase space interference and the WKB approximation for squeezed number states
authors: D.F. Mundarain, J. Stephany
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Lett A 316, (2003), 357-362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305151
abstract: Squeezed number states for a single mode Hamiltonian are investigated from two complementary points of view. Firstly the more relevant features of their photon distribution are discussed using the WKB wave functions. In particular the oscillations of the distribution and the parity behavior are derived and compared with the exact results. The accuracy is verified and it is shown that for high photon number it fails to reproduce the true distribution. This is contrasted with the fact that for moderate squeezing the WKB approximation gives the analytical justification to the interpretation of the oscillations as the result of the interference of areas with definite phases in phase space. It is shown with a computation at high squeezing using a modified prescription for the phase space representation which is based on Wigner-Cohen distributions that the failure of the WKB approximation does not invalidate the area overlap picture.

id: quant-ph/0305152
title: Conditional linear-optical measurement schemes generate effective photon nonlinearities
authors: G. G. Lapaire, Pieter Kok, Jonathan P. Dowling, J. E. Sipe
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042314 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305152
abstract: We provide a general approach for the analysis of optical state evolution under conditional measurement schemes, and identify the necessary and sufficient conditions for such schemes to simulate unitary evolution on the freely propagating modes. If such unitary evolution holds, an effective photon nonlinearity can be identified. Our analysis extends to conditional measurement schemes more general than those based solely on linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0305153
title: Comment on ``Testing integrability with a single bit of quantum information''
authors: Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 1/2 page, no equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305153
abstract: In quant-ph/0303042, Poulin, Laflamme, Milburn and Paz consider the problem of distinguishing quantum chaos from quantum integrability for dynamics in an $N$-dimensional Hilbert space. They claim that this can be done by deterministic quantum computing with a single bit using $O(\sqrt{N})$ physical resources, compared to O(N) physical resources classically. I point out what seems to be a fatal flaw with their proposal.

id: quant-ph/0305154
title: On the Power of Quantum Memory
authors: Robert Koenig, Ueli Maurer, Renato Renner
comments: 11 pages; references added and notation simplified; to appear in the July 2005 issue of IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 51, no. 7 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305154
abstract: We address the question whether quantum memory is more powerful than classical memory. In particular, we consider a setting where information about a random n-bit string X is stored in r classical or quantum bits, for r<n, i.e., the stored information is bound to be only partial. Later, a randomly chosen binary question F about X is asked, which has to be answered using only the stored information. The maximal probability of correctly guessing the answer F(X) is then compared for the cases where the storage device is classical or quantum mechanical, respectively. We show that, despite the fact that the measurement of quantum bits can depend arbitrarily on the question F to be answered, the quantum advantage is negligible already for small values of the difference n-r. An implication for cryptography is that privacy amplification by application of a compression function mapping n-bit strings to s-bit strings (for some s<n-r), chosen publicly from a two-universal class of hash functions, remains essentially equally secure when the adversary's memory is allowed to be r quantum rather than only r classical bits.

id: quant-ph/0305155
title: Cavity QED and Quantum Computation in the Strong Coupling Regime
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305155
abstract: In this paper we propose a Hamiltonian generalizing the interaction of the two--level atom and both the single radiation mode and external field $...$ a kind of cavity QED. We solve the Schrodinger equation in the strong coupling regime by making use of rotating wave approximation under new resonance conditions containing the Bessel functions and etc, and obtain unitary transformations of four types corresponding to Rabi oscillations which perform quantum logic gates in Quantum Computation.

id: quant-ph/0305156
title: Finite-level systems, Hermitian operators, isometries, and a novel parameterization of Stiefel and Grassmann manifolds
authors: Petre Dita
comments: 21 pages
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 2657-2668
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305156
abstract: In this paper we obtain a description of the Hermitian operators acting on the Hilbert space $\C^n$, description which gives a complete solution to the over parameterization problem. More precisely we provide an explicit parameterization of arbitrary $n$-dimensional operators, operators that may be considered either as Hamiltonians, or density matrices for finite-level quantum systems. It is shown that the spectral multiplicities are encoded in a flag unitary matrix obtained as an ordered product of special unitary matrices, each one generated by a complex $n-k$-dimensional unit vector, $k=0,1,...,n-2$. As a byproduct, an alternative and simple parameterization of Stiefel and Grassmann manifolds is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0305157
title: Improved LeRoy-Bernstein near-dissociation expansion formula. Tutorial application to photoassociation spectroscopy of long-range states
authors: Daniel Comparat
comments: This article is part of Daniel Comparat's PhD thesis available at this http URL
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 120 (2004) 1318
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305157
abstract: NDE (Near-dissociation expansion) including LeRoy-Bernstein formulas are improved by taking into account the multipole expansion coefficients and the non asymptotic part of the potential curve. Applying these new simple analytical formulas to photoassociation spectra of cold alkali atoms, we improve the determination of the asymptotic coefficient, reaching a 1% accuracy, for long-range relativistic potential curve of diatomic molecules.

id: quant-ph/0305158
title: A Simple Solution of the Time-Independent Schrodinger Equation in One Dimension
authors: H. H. Erbil
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305158
abstract: We found a simple procedure for the solution of the time - independent Schrodinger equation in one dimension without making any approximation. The wave functions are always periodic. Two difficulties may be encountered: one is to solve the equation E=U(x), where E and U(x) are the total and potential energies, respectively, and the other is to calculate the integral of the square root of U(x). If these calculations cannot be made analytically, it should then be performed by numerical methods. To find the energy and the wave function of the ground state, there is no need to calculate this integral, it is sufficient to find the classical turning points, that is to solve the equation E=U(x).

id: quant-ph/0305159
title: Reply to: ``Comment on `Polynomial-Time Simulation of Pairing Models on a Quantum Computer'''
authors: L.-A. Wu, M.S. Byrd, D.A. Lidar
comments: 1 page reply
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 249804 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305159
abstract: We reply to Dukelsky, et al. regarding the article: L. A. Wu, M. S. Byrd and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057904 (2002).

id: quant-ph/0305160
title: A Simple General Solution of the Radial Schrodinger Equation for Spherically Symmetric Potentials
authors: H. H. Erbil
comments: 43 pages, 8 figures, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305160
abstract: By using a simple procedure the general solution of the time-independent radial Schrodinger Equation for spherical symmetric potentials was made without making any approximation. The wave functions are always periodic. It appears two diffucilties: one of them is the solution of the equation E= U(r), where E and U(r) are the total an effective potential energies, respectively, and the other is the calculation of the integral of the square root of U(r). If analytical calculations are not possible, one must apply numerical methods. To find the energy wave function of the ground state, there is no need for the calculation of this integral, it is sufficient to find the classical turning points, that is to solve the equation E=U(r).

id: quant-ph/0305161
title: Robust Steering of n-level Quantum Systems
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Augusto Ferrante, Michele Pavon
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305161
abstract: Robust open-loop steering of a finite-dimensional quantum system is a central problem in a growing number of applications of information engineering. In the present paper, we reformulate the problem in the classical control-theoretic setting, and provide a precise definition of {\em robustness} of the control strategy. We then discuss and compare some significant problems from NMR in the light of the given definition. We obtain quantitative results that are consistent with the qualitative ones available in the physics literature.

id: quant-ph/0305162
title: Generation of Nonclassical Photon Pairs for Scalable Quantum Communication with Atomic Ensembles
authors: A. Kuzmich, W. P. Bowen, A. D. Boozer, A. Boca, C. W. Chou, L.-M. Duan, H. J. Kimble
comments: Submitted to Nature, 3 March, 2003 (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305162
abstract: Quantum information science attempts to exploit capabilities from the quantum realm to accomplish tasks that are otherwise impossible in the classical domain [1]. Although sufficient conditions have been formulated for the physical resources required to achieve quantum computation and communication [2], there is an evolving understanding of the power of quantum measurement combined with conditional evolution for accomplishing diverse tasks in quantum information science [3-5]. In this regard, a significant advance is the invention of a protocol by Duan, Lukin, Cirac, and Zoller (DLCZ) [6] for the realization of scalable long distance quantum communication and the distribution of entanglement over quantum networks. Here, we report the first enabling step in the realization of the protocol of DLCZ, namely the observation of quantum correlations for photon pairs generated in the collective emission from an atomic ensemble. The nonclassical character of the fields is evidenced by the violation of a Cauchy-Schwarz inequality for the two fields (1,2). As compared to prior investigations of nonclassical correlations for photon pairs produced in atomic cascades [7] and in parametric down conversion [8], our experiment is distinct in that the correlated (1,2) photons are separated by a programmable time interval delta t, with delta t ~ 400 nsec in our initial experiments.

id: quant-ph/0305163
title: Bohmian arrival time without trajectories
authors: Sabine Kreidl, Gebhard Gruebl, Hans G. Embacher
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures; v2: reference added, extended introduction, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 8851-8865
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305163
abstract: The computation of detection probabilities and arrival time distributions within Bohmian mechanics in general needs the explicit knowledge of a relevant sample of trajectories. Here it is shown how for one-dimensional systems and rigid inertial detectors these quantities can be computed without calculating any trajectories. An expression in terms of the wave function and its spatial derivative, both restricted to the boundary of the detector's spacetime volume, is derived for the general case, where the probability current at the detector's boundary may vary its sign.

id: quant-ph/0305164
title: Collective Atomic Motion in an Optical Lattice formed inside a High Finesse Cavity
authors: B. Nagorny, Th. Elsaesser, A. Hemmerich
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305164
abstract: We report on collective non-linear dynamics in an optical lattice formed inside a high finesse ring cavity in a so far unexplored regime, where the light shift per photon times the number of trapped atoms exceeds the cavity resonance linewidth. We observe bistability and self-induced squeezing oscillations resulting from the retro-action of the atoms upon the optical potential wells. We can well understand most of our observations within a simplified model assuming adiabaticity of the atomic motion. Non-adiabatic aspects of the atomic motion are reproduced by solving the complete system of coupled non-linear equations of motion for hundred atoms.

id: quant-ph/0305165
title: Optical Cavity Implementations of the Quantum Walk
authors: Peter L. Knight, Eugenio Roldan, J.E. Sipe
comments: Revised version to appear in Optics Communications. Important changes concerning: (i) technical details, (ii) the analysis of the experiment of Bouwmeester et al., and (iii) the conclussion section, which is entirely new
journal: Optics Communications 227, 147-157 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305165
abstract: We discuss how the coined quantum walk on the line or on the circle can be implemented using optical waves. We propose several optical cavity configurations for these implementations.

id: quant-ph/0305166
title: Spin squeezing as a measure of entanglement in a two qubit system
authors: A.Messikh, Z.Ficek, M.R.B. Wahiddin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305166
abstract: We show that two definitions of spin squeezing extensively used in the literature [M. Kitagawa and M. Ueda, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 47}, 5138 (1993) and D.J. Wineland {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 50}, 67 (1994)] give different predictions of entanglement in the two-atom Dicke system. We analyze differences between the definitions and show that the Kitagawa and Ueda's spin squeezing parameter is a better measure of entanglement than the commonly used spectroscopic spin squeezing parameter. We illustrate this relation by examining different examples of a driven two-atom Dicke system in which spin squeezing and entanglement arise dynamically. We give an explanation of the source of the difference in the prediction of entanglement using the negativity criterion for entanglement. For the examples discussed, we find that the Kitagawa and Ueda's spin squeezing parameter is the sufficient and necessary condition for entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0305167
title: Generating optical nonlinearity using trapped atoms
authors: Alexei Gilchrist, G. J. Milburn, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: Substantially extended from quant-ph/0208157
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305167
abstract: We describe a scheme for producing an optical nonlinearity using an interaction with one or more ancilla two-level atomic systems. The nonlinearity, which can be implemented using high efficiency fluorescence shelving measurements, together with general linear transformations is sufficient for simulating arbitrary Hamiltonian evolution on a Fock state qudit. We give two examples of the application of this nonlinearity, one for the creation of nonlinear phase shifts on optical fields as required in single photon quantum computation schemes, and the other for the preparation of optical Schrodinger cat states.

id: quant-ph/0305168
title: Secure Key Distribution by Swapping Quantum Entanglement
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables. The revised version will appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305168
abstract: We report two key distribution schemes achieved by swapping quantum entanglement. Using two Bell states, two bits of secret key can be shared between two distant parties that play symmetric and equal roles. We also address eavesdropping attacks against the schemes.

id: quant-ph/0305169
title: A Twist (with Pike) for the Simple Harmonic Oscillator
authors: G Filewood
comments: 10 pages. Minor correction. PACS added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305169
abstract: Extension of the formalism of Q.M. to resolve mathematical anomalies in the structure of anti-unitary operators; implications for vacuum structure and spin-statistics arising from an analysis applied to the S.H.O. Outline of the derived properties of the S.M. Higgs boson.

id: quant-ph/0305170
title: Cluster states, algorithms and graphs
authors: Dirk Schlingemann
comments: 38 pages LaTex, 10 figures, comments added to the introduction, style changed for submission to QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305170
abstract: The present paper is concerned with the concept of the one-way quantum computer, beyond binary-systems, and its relation to the concept of stabilizer quantum codes. This relation is exploited to analyze a particular class of quantum algorithms, called graph algorithms, which correspond in the binary case to the Clifford group part of a network and which can efficiently be implemented on a one-way quantum computer. These algorithms can ``completely be solved" in the sense that the manipulation of quantum states in each step can be computed explicitly. Graph algorithms are precisely those which implement encoding schemes for graph codes. Starting from a given initial graph, which represents the underlying resource of multipartite entanglement, each step of the algorithm is related to a explicit transformation on the graph.

id: quant-ph/0305171
title: Elliptic Rydberg states as direction indicators
authors: Netanel H. Lindner, Asher Peres, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305171
abstract: The orientation in space of a Cartesian coordinate system can be indicated by the two vectorial constants of motion of a classical Keplerian orbit: the angular momentum and the Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector. In quantum mechanics, the states of a hydrogen atom that mimic classical elliptic orbits are the coherent states of the SO(4) rotation group.It is known how to produce these states experimentally. They have minimal dispersions of the two conserved vectors and can be used as direction indicators. We compare the fidelity of this transmission method with that of the idealized optimal method.

id: quant-ph/0305172
title: A quantitative theory-versus-experiment comparison for the intense laser dissociation of H2+
authors: Vassili Serov, Arne Keller, Osman Atabek, Nicolas Billy
comments: submitted to PRA on 21.05.2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305172
abstract: A detailed theory-versus-experiment comparison is worked out for H$_2^+$ intense laser dissociation, based on angularly resolved photodissociation spectra recently recorded in H.Figger's group. As opposite to other experimental setups, it is an electric discharge (and not an optical excitation) that prepares the molecular ion, with the advantage for the theoretical approach, to neglect without lost of accuracy, the otherwise important ionization-dissociation competition. Abel transformation relates the dissociation probability starting from a single ro-vibrational state, to the probability of observing a hydrogen atom at a given pixel of the detector plate. Some statistics on initial ro-vibrational distributions, together with a spatial averaging over laser focus area, lead to photofragments kinetic spectra, with well separated peaks attributed to single vibrational levels. An excellent theory-versus-experiment agreement is reached not only for the kinetic spectra, but also for the angular distributions of fragments originating from two different vibrational levels resulting into more or less alignment. Some characteristic features can be interpreted in terms of basic mechanisms such as bond softening or vibrational trapping.

id: quant-ph/0305173
title: Necesary and sufficient range-dimension conditions for bipartite quantum correlations
authors: F. Herbut
comments: 6 pages, Latex 2e
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 7607-7611
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305173
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a composite-system statistical operator, and, separately, for the possibility of its being correlated or uncorrelated, are derived in terms of its range dimension and the range dimensions of its reduced statistical operators.

id: quant-ph/0305174
title: Generalization of the Darboux transformation and generalized harmonic oscillators
authors: Dae-Yup Song, John R. Klauder
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (15 August 2003) 8673-8684
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305174
abstract: The Darbroux transformation is generalized for time-dependent Hamiltonian systems which include a term linear in momentum and a time-dependent mass. The formalism for the $N$-fold application of the transformation is also established, and these formalisms are applied for a general quadratic system (a generalized harmonic oscillator) and a quadratic system with an inverse-square interaction up to N=2. Among the new features found, it is shown, for the general quadratic system, that the shape of potential difference between the original system and the transformed system could oscillate according to a classical solution, which is related to the existence of coherent states in the system.

id: quant-ph/0305175
title: Uniqueness of conserved currents in quantum mechanics
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 22 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 12, 446-62 (2003) (slightly modified version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305175
abstract: It is proved by a functional method that the conventional expression for the Dirac current is the only conserved 4-vector implied by the Dirac equation that is a function of just the quantum state. The demonstration is extended to derive the unique conserved currents implied by the coupled Maxwell-Dirac equations and the Klein-Gordon equation. The uniqueness of the usual Pauli and Schrodinger currents follows by regarding these as the non-relativistic limits of the Dirac and Klein-Gordon currents, respectively. The existence and properties of further conserved vectors that are not functions of just the state is examined.

id: quant-ph/0305176
title: On Feedback and the Classical Capacity of a Noisy Quantum Channel
authors: Garry Bowen, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: 4 Pages, requires IEEEtran.cls
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory 51, 320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305176
abstract: In Shannon information theory the capacity of a memoryless communication channel cannot be increased by the use of feedback from receiver to sender. In this paper the use of classical feedback is shown to provide no increase in the unassisted classical capacity of a memoryless quantum channel when feedback is used across non-entangled input states, or when the channel is an entanglement--breaking channel. This gives a generalization of the Shannon theory for certain classes of feedback protocols when transmitting through noisy quantum communication channels.

id: quant-ph/0305177
title: Quantum Search for Zeros of Polynomials
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Opt. B 5 (2003) S586
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305177
abstract: A quantum mechanical search procedure to determine the real zeros of a polynomial is introduced. It is based on the construction of a spin observable whose eigenvalues coincide with the zeros of the polynomial. Subsequent quantum mechanical measurements of the observable output directly the numerical values of the zeros. Performing the measurements is the only computational resource involved.

id: quant-ph/0305178
title: Enhancing Acceleration Radiation from Ground-State Atoms via Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Marlan O. Scully, Vitaly V. Kocharovsky, Alexey Belyanin, Edward Fry, Federico Capasso
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305178
abstract: When ground state atoms are accelerated through a high Q microwave cavity, radiation is produced with an intensity which can exceed the intensity of Unruh acceleration radiation in free space by many orders of magnitude. The cavity field at steady state is described by a thermal density matrix under most conditions. However, under some conditions gain is possible, and when the atoms are injected in a regular fashion, the radiation can be produced in a squeezed state.

id: quant-ph/0305179
title: Polynomial Degree and Lower Bounds in Quantum Complexity: Collision and Element Distinctness with Small Range
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, v2 new result on degree lower bound for AND-OR added, v3 many small changes
journal: Theory of Computing, 1:37-46, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305179
abstract: We give a general method for proving quantum lower bounds for problems with small range. Namely, we show that, for any symmetric problem defined on functions $f:\{1, ..., N\}\to\{1, ..., M\}$, its polynomial degree is the same for all $M\geq N$. Therefore, if we have a quantum lower bound for some (possibly, quite large) range $M$ which is shown using polynomials method, we immediately get the same lower bound for all ranges $M\geq N$. In particular, we get $\Omega(N^{1/3})$ and $\Omega(N^{2/3})$ quantum lower bounds for collision and element distinctness with small range.

id: quant-ph/0305180
title: Physical realizations of quantum operations
authors: F. Buscemi, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042113 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305180
abstract: Quantum operations (QO) describe any state change allowed in quantum mechanics, such as the evolution of an open system or the state change due to a measurement. We address the problem of which unitary transformations and which observables can be used to achieve a QO with generally different input and output Hilbert spaces. We classify all unitary extensions of a QO, and give explicit realizations in terms of free-evolution direct-sum dilations and interacting tensor-product dilations. In terms of Hilbert space dimensionality the free-evolution dilations minimize the physical resources needed to realize the QO, and for this case we provide bounds for the dimension of the ancilla space versus the rank of the QO. The interacting dilations, on the other hand, correspond to the customary ancilla-system interaction realization, and for these we derive a majorization relation which selects the allowed unitary interactions between system and ancilla.

id: quant-ph/0305181
title: Hermitian Schmidt Decomposition and Twin Observables of Bipartite Mixed States
authors: F. Herbut
comments: 22 pages, Latex2e, supersedes both quant-ph/0106101 and quant-ph/0106038
journal: J. Phys. A 35 (2002) 1691-1708
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305181
abstract: It is shown that for each mixed state there exists a Schmidt (super state vector) decomposition in terms of Hermitian operators. Its utilization for finding all twins is illustrated in full detail in the case of the two spin-one-half-particle states with maximally disordered subsystems (mixtures of Bell states).

id: quant-ph/0305182
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on the symmetric group
authors: Heath Gerhardt, John Watrous
comments: 14 pages, to appear at RANDOM'03
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305182
abstract: In this paper we study continuous-time quantum walks on Cayley graphs of the symmetric group, and prove various facts concerning such walks that demonstrate significant differences from their classical analogues. In particular, we show that for several natural choices for generating sets, these quantum walks do not have uniform limiting distributions, and are effectively blind to large areas of the graphs due to destructive interference.

id: quant-ph/0305183
title: Reappraisal of the causal interpretation of quantum mechanics and of the quantum potential concept
authors: R. H. Parmenter, Andrew L. DiRienzo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305183
abstract: The causal interpretation of quantum mechanics, as originally stated by deBroglie and Bohm, had several attractive features. Among these is the possibility that it could address some of the most fundamental questions on quantum phenomena. However, subsequent theoretical conjectures, which have now been included in the orthodox view of the deBroglie Bohm theory, are unphysical and have done much to undermine the original theory's appeal. We, therefore, return to the original theory as our starting point and address one of its perplexing areas: the quantum potential. By avoiding the unphysical conjectures we are led to an understanding of the quantum potential which is distinctly different from that of the orthodox deBroglie Bohm view.

id: quant-ph/0305184
title: Dispersion Compensation for Atom Interferometry
authors: Tony D. Roberts, Alexander D. Cronin, Martin V. Tiberg, David E. Pritchard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305184
abstract: A new technique for maintaining high contrast in an atom interferometer is used to measure large de Broglie wave phase shifts. Dependence of an interaction induced phase on the atoms' velocity is compensated by applying an engineered \emph{counter phase}. The counter phase is equivalent to a rotation and precisely determined by a frequency, and can be used to measure phase shifts due to interactions of unknown strength. Phase shifts of 150 radians (5 times larger than previously possible) have now been measured in an atom beam interferometer and we suggest that this technique can enable comparisons of atomic polarizability with precision of one part in 10,000.

id: quant-ph/0305185
title: Photon Added Detection
authors: A. M. Branczyk, Tobias J. Osborne, Alexei Gilchrist, T. C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 043821 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305185
abstract: The production of conditional quantum states and quantum operations based on the result of measurement is now seen as a key tool in quantum information and metrology. We propose a new type of photon number detector. It functions non-deterministically, but when successful, it has high fidelity. The detector, which makes use of an n-photon auxiliary Fock state and high efficiency Homodyne detection, allows a tunable tradeoff between fidelity and probability. By sacrificing probability of operation, an excellent approximation to a photon number detector is achieved.

id: quant-ph/0305186
title: Multiorder coherent Raman scattering of a quantum probe field
authors: Fam Le Kien, Anil K. Patnaik, K. Hakuta
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305186
abstract: We study the multiorder coherent Raman scattering of a quantum probe field in a far-off-resonance medium with a prepared coherence. Under the conditions of negligible dispersion and limited bandwidth, we derive a Bessel-function solution for the sideband field operators. We analytically and numerically calculate various quantum statistical characteristics of the sideband fields. We show that the multiorder coherent Raman process can replicate the statistical properties of a single-mode quantum probe field into a broad comb of generated Raman sidebands. We also study the mixing and modulation of photon statistical properties in the case of two-mode input. We show that the prepared Raman coherence and the medium length can be used as control parameters to switch a sideband field from one type of photon statistics to another type, or from a non-squeezed state to a squeezed state and vice versa.

id: quant-ph/0305187
title: Chains of Quasi-Classical Informations for Bipartite Correlations and the Role of Twin Observables
authors: F. Herbut
comments: 7 pages, Latex2e, selected for the December 2002 issue of the Virtual Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 (2002) 052321-1-6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305187
abstract: Having the quantum correlations in a general bipartite state in mind, the information accessible by simultaneous measurement on both subsystems is shown never to exceed the information accessible by measurement on one subsystem, which, in turn is proved not to exceed the von Neumann mutual information. A particular pair of (opposite- subsystem) observables are shown to be responsible both for the amount of quasi-classical correlations and for that of the purely quantum entanglement in the pure-state case: the former via simultaneous subsystem measurements, and the latter through the entropy of coherence or of incompatibility, which is defined for the general case. The observables at issue are so-called twin observables. A general definition of the latter is given in terms of their detailed properties.

id: quant-ph/0305188
title: Dynamics of Distillability
authors: W. Wu, W. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, published on QIC 3,39(2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305188
abstract: The time evolution of a maximally entangled bipartite systems is presented in this paper. The distillability criterion is given in terms of Kraus operators. Using the criterion, we discuss the distillability of $2\times 2$ and $n\times n (n>2)$ systems in their evolution process. There are two distinguished processes, dissipation and decoherence, which may destroy the distillability. We discuss the effects of those processes on distillability in details.

id: quant-ph/0305189
title: An asymmetric double-slit interferometer for small and large quantum particles
authors: Mirjana Bozic, Dusan Arsenovic, Lepsa Vuskovic
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages with 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305189
abstract: Quantum theory of interference phenomena does not take the diameter of the particle into account, since particles were much smaller than the width of the slits in early observations. In recent experiments with large molecules, the diameter of the particle has approached the width of the slits. Therefore, analytical description of these cases should include a finite particle size. The generic quantum interference setup is an asymmetric double slit interferometer. We evaluate the wave function of the particle transverse motion using two forms of the solution of Schrodinger's equation in an asymmetric interferometer: the Fresnel-Kirchhoff form and the form derived from the transverse wave function in the momentum representation. The transverse momentum distribution is independent of the distance from the slits, while the space distribution strongly depends on this distance. Based on the transverse momentum distribution we determined the space distribution of particles behind the slits. We will present two cases: a) when the diameter of the particle may be neglected with respect to the width of both slits, and b) when the diameter of the particle is larger than the width of the smaller slit.

id: quant-ph/0305190
title: Symmetries of the Bell correlation inequalities
authors: C. Sliwa
comments: 6 pages + 6 pages table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305190
abstract: Bell correlation inequalities for two sites and 2+n or 3+3 two-way measurements ("dichotomic observables") are considered. In the 2+n case, any facet of the classical experience polytope is defined by a CHSH inequality involving only two pairs of the observables. In the 3+3 case, contrary to earlier results, the action of the symmetry group reduces the set of all Bell inequalities to just 3 orbits, only one of them being "new" (not known from the 2+2 case). A detailed calculation for the singlet state of two qubits reveals the configurations of a maximal violation for this class of inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0305191
title: Fiber-assisted detection with photon number resolution
authors: Daryl Achilles, Christine Silberhorn, Cezary Sliwa, Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Submitted for publication
journal: Opt. Lett. 28, 2387 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305191
abstract: We report the development of a photon-number resolving detector based on a fiber-optical setup and a pair of standard avalanche photodiodes. The detector is capable of resolving individual photon numbers, and operates on the well-known principle by which a single mode input state is split into a large number (eight) of output modes. We reconstruct the photon statistics of weak coherent input light from experimental data, and show that there is a high probability of inferring the input photon number from a measurement of the number of detection events on a single run.

id: quant-ph/0305192
title: Photon engineering for quantum information processing
authors: A.B. U'Ren, K. Banaszek, I.A. Walmsley
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures. submitted to Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 3, 480 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305192
abstract: We study distinguishing information in the context of quantum interference involving more than one parametric downconversion (PDC) source and in the context of polarization-entangled photon pairs based on PDC. We arrive at specific design criteria for two-photon sources so that when used as part of complex optical systems, such as photon-based quantum information processing schemes, distinguishing information between the photons is eliminated guaranteeing high visibility interference. We propose practical techniques which lead to suitably engineered two-photon states that can be realistically implemented with available technology. Finally, we study an implementation of the nonlinear-sign shift (NS) logic gate with PDC sources and show the effect of distinguishing information on the performance of the gate.

id: quant-ph/0305193
title: Photon number resolution using a time-multiplexed single-photon detector
authors: M. J. Fitch, B. C. Jacobs, T. B. Pittman, J. D. Franson
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 8 eps figures, v2: minor changes, v3: changes in response to referee report, appendix added, 1 reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 68, 043814 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305193
abstract: Photon number resolving detectors are needed for a variety of applications including linear-optics quantum computing. Here we describe the use of time-multiplexing techniques that allows ordinary single photon detectors, such as silicon avalanche photodiodes, to be used as photon number-resolving detectors. The ability of such a detector to correctly measure the number of photons for an incident number state is analyzed. The predicted results for an incident coherent state are found to be in good agreement with the results of a proof-of-principle experimental demonstration.

id: quant-ph/0305194
title: Quantum states of hierarchic systems
authors: M.V.Altaisky
comments: LaTeX 11 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 1. No. 2 (2003)1-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0305194
abstract: The density matrix formalism which is widely used in the theory of measurements, quantum computing, quantum description of chemical and biological systems always imply the averaging over the states of the environment. In practice this is impossible because the environment $U\setminusS$ of the system $S$ is the complement of this system to the whole Universe and contains infinitely many degrees of freedom. A novel method of construction density matrix which implies the averaging only over the direct environment is proposed. The Hilbert space of state vectors for the hierarchic quantum systems is constructed.

id: cond-mat/0305110
title: Production and detection of entangled electron-hole pairs in a degenerate electron gas
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, C. Emary, M. Kindermann, J.L. van Velsen
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure; three comments have been added to the reference list, addressing the entanglement of formation, the Clauser-Horne inequality, and the dephasing effect of a finite voltage
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91, 147901 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305110
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically that the shot noise produced by a tunnel barrier in a two-channel conductor violates a Bell inequality. The non-locality is shown to originate from entangled electron-hole pairs created by tunneling events -- without requiring electron-electron interactions. The degree of entanglement (concurrence) equals 2(T_1 T_2)^1/2 (T_1+T_2)^-1, with T_1,T_2 << 1 the transmission eigenvalues. A pair of edge channels in the quantum Hall effect is proposed as experimental realization.

id: cond-mat/0305165
title: Resonant nature of phonon-induced damping of Rabi oscillations in quantum dots
authors: Pawel Machnikowski, Lucjan Jacak
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; final version; moderate changes, new title
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69 (2004) 193302
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305165
abstract: Optically controlled coherent dynamics of charge (excitonic) degrees of freedom in a semiconductor quantum dot under the influence of lattice dynamics (phonons) is discussed theoretically. We show that the dynamics of the lattice response in the strongly non-linear regime is governed by a semiclassical resonance between the phonon modes and the optically driven dynamics. We stress on the importance of the stability of intermediate states for the truly coherent control.

id: cond-mat/0305289
title: Transition between Quantum States in a Parallel-Coupled Double-Quantum-Dot
authors: J.C. Chen, A.M. Chang, M.R. Melloch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305289
abstract: Strong electron and spin correlations in a double-quantum-dot (DQD) can give rise to different quantum states. We observe a continuous transition from a Kondo state exhibiting a single-peak Kondo resonance to another exhibiting a double peak by increasing the inter-dot-coupling (t) in a parallel-coupled DQD. The transition into the double-peak state provides evidence for spin-entanglement between the excess-electron on each dot. Toward the transition, the peak splitting merges and becomes substantially smaller than t because of strong Coulomb effects. Our device tunability bodes well for future quantum computation applications.

id: cond-mat/0305304
title: Accuracy of circular polarization as a measure of spin polarization in quantum dot qubits
authors: C. E. Pryor, M. E. Flatt¨¦
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305304
abstract: A quantum dot spin LED provides a test of carrier spin injection into a qubit, as well as a means of analyzing carrier spin injection in general and local spin polarization. The polarization of the observed light is, however, significantly influenced by the dot geometry so the spin may be more polarized than the emitted light would naively suggest. We have calculated carrier polarization-dependent optical matrix elements using 8-band strain-dependent k.p theory for InAs/GaAs self-assembled quantum dots (SAQDs) for electron and hole spin injection into a range of quantum dot sizes and shapes, and for arbitrary emission directions. The observed circular polarization does not depend on whether the injected spin-polarized carriers are electrons or holes, but is strongly influenced by the SAQD geometry and emission direction. Calculations for typical SAQD geometries with emission along [110] show light that is only ~5% circularly polarized for spin states that are 100% polarized along [110]. Therefore observed polarizations [Chye et al. PRB 66, 201301(R)] of ~1% imply a spin polarization within the dot of ~20%. We also find that measuring along the growth direction gives near unity conversion of spin to photon polarization, and is the least sensitive to uncertainties in SAQD geometry.

id: cond-mat/0305467
title: Theoretical analysis of continuously driven dissipative solid-state qubits
authors: M.C. Goorden, F.K. Wilhelm
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 012508 (2003).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305467
abstract: We study a realistic model for driven qubits using the numerical solution of the Bloch-Redfield equation as well as analytical approximations using a high-frequency scheme. Unlike in idealized rotating-wave models suitable for NMR or quantum optics, we study a driving term which neither is orthogonal to the static term nor leaves the adiabatic energy value constant. We investigate the underlying dynamics and analyze the spectroscopy peaks obtained in recent experiments. We show, that unlike in the rotating-wave case, this system exhibits nonlinear driving effects.We study the width of spectroscopy peaks and show, how a full analysis of the parameters of the system can be performed by comparing the first and second resonance. We outline the limitations of the NMR linewidth formula at low temperature and show, that spectrocopic peaks experience a strong shift which goes much beyond the Bloch-Siegert shift of the Eigenfrequency.

id: cond-mat/0305494
title: A turnstile electron-spin entangler in semiconductors
authors: Claudia Sifel, Ulrich Hohenester
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305494
abstract: We propose a single-electron doped quantum dot in a field-effect structure as an optically triggered turnstile for spin-entangled electrons. A short laser pulse excites a charged exciton, whose quantum properties are transferred through tunneling and relaxation to the spin entanglement between electrons in the dot and contact. We identify the pertinent disentanglement mechanisms, and discuss experimental detection and possible application schemes.

id: cond-mat/0305510
title: Quantum impurity models of noisy qubits
authors: D. V. Khveshchenko
comments: Latex, 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 153311 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305510
abstract: We demonstrate that the problem of coupled two-level systems ("qubits") which are also subject to a generic (sub)Ohmic dissipative environment belongs to the same class of models as those describing (non)magnetic impurities embedded in strongly correlated systems. A further insight into the generalized single- and two-impurity Bose/Fermi Kondo models enables one to make specific recommendations towards a systematic engineering of highly coherent multi-qubit assemblies for potential applications in quantum information processing.

id: cond-mat/0305573
title: Entanglement in a second order quantum phase transition
authors: J. Vidal, G. Palacios, R. Mosseri
comments: 4 pages, 4 EPS figures, minor corrections added and title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022107 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305573
abstract: We consider a system of mutually interacting spin 1/2 embedded in a transverse magnetic field which undergo a second order quantum phase transition. We analyze the entanglement properties and the spin squeezing of the ground state and show that, contrarily to the one-dimensional case, a cusp-like singularity appears at the critical point $\lambda_c$, in the thermodynamic limit. We also show that there exists a value $\lambda_0 \geq \lambda_c$ above which the ground state is not spin squeezed despite a nonvanishing concurrence.

id: cond-mat/0305613
title: Theoretical study on novel electronic properties in nanographite materials
authors: Kikuo Harigaya, Atsushi Yamashiro, Yukihiro Shimoi, Katsunori Wakabayashi, Yousuke Kobayashi, Naoki Kawatsu, Kazuyuki Takai, Hirohiko Sato, Jerome Ravier, Toshiaki Enoki, Morinobu Endo
comments: 8 pages; 6 figures; accepted for publication in J. Phys. Chem. Solids; related Web site: this http URL
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Solids 65 (2004) 123-126
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305613
abstract: Antiferromagnetism in stacked nanographite is investigated with using the Hubbard-type model. We find that the open shell electronic structure can be an origin of the decreasing magnetic moment with the decrease of the inter-graphene distance, as experiments on adsorption of molecules suggest. Next, possible charge-separated states are considered using the extended Hubbard model with nearest-neighbor interactions. The charge-polarized state could appear, when a static electric field is present in the graphene plane for example. Finally, superperiodic patterns with a long distance in a nanographene sheet observed by STM are discussed in terms of the interference of electronic wave functions with a static linear potential theoretically. In the analysis by the k-p model, the oscillation period decreases spatially in agreement with experiments.

id: cond-mat/0305696
title: Quantum phase transition and engineering in two-component BEC in optical lattices
authors: Yong-Shi Wu
comments: Format: LaTex2e. 7 pages, no figure. Talk at the Yang Symposium (in honor of C.N. Yang's 80th birthday), Beijing, China, June 2002. To appear in the Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305696
abstract: In this paper we review recent progress in studying quantum phase transitions in one- and two-component Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in optical lattices. These phase transitions involve the emergence and disappearance of quantum coherence over whole optical lattice and of linear superposition of macroscopic quantum states. The latter may provide new means to engineer and to manipulate novel macroscopic quantum states and novel coherent atomic beams for quantum information processing, quantum computing etc.

id: gr-qc/0305052
title: Some Consequences of a Generalization to Heisenberg Algebra in Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: Awarded with an Honorable Mention in the 2003 Essay Competition by the Gravity Research Foundation
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D12 (2003) 1687-1692
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0305052
abstract: In this essay it will be shown that the introduction of a modification to Heisenberg algebra (here this feature means the existence of a minimal obserlvable length), as a fundamental part of the quantization process of the electrodynamical field, renders states in which the uncertainties in the two quadrature components violate the usual Heisenberg uncertainty relation. Hence in this context it may be asserted that any physically realistic generalization of the uncertainty principle must include, not only a minimal observable length, but also a minimal observable momentum.

id: gr-qc/0305063
title: Action based approach to the dynamics of extended bodies in General Relativity
authors: Jeeva Anandan, Naresh Dadhich, Parampreet Singh
comments: This essay received an ``honorable mention'' in the 2003 Gravity Research Foundation essay competition
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D12 (2003) 1651-1656
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0305063
abstract: We present, for the first time, an action principle that gives the equations of motion of an extended body possessing multipole moments in an external gravitational field, in the weak field limit. From the action, the experimentally observable quantum phase shifts in the wavefunction of an extended object due to the coupling of its multipole moments with the gravitational field are obtained. Also, since the theory may be quantized using the action, the present approach is useful in the interface between general relativity and quantum mechanics.

id: gr-qc/0305080
title: The Phoenix Project: Master Constraint Programme for Loop Quantum Gravity
authors: Thomas Thiemann
comments: LATEX, uses AMSTEX
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.23:2211-2248,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0305080
abstract: The Hamiltonian constraint remains the major unsolved problem in Loop Quantum Gravity (LQG). Seven years ago a mathematically consistent candidate Hamiltonian constraint has been proposed but there are still several unsettled questions which concern the algebra of commutators among smeared Hamiltonian constraints which must be faced in order to make progress. In this paper we propose a solution to this set of problems based on the so-called {\bf Master Constraint} which combines the smeared Hamiltonian constraints for all smearing functions into a single constraint. If certain mathematical conditions, which still have to be proved, hold, then not only the problems with the commutator algebra could disappear, also chances are good that one can control the solution space and the (quantum) Dirac observables of LQG. Even a decision on whether the theory has the correct classical limit and a connection with the path integral (or spin foam) formulation could be in reach. While these are exciting possibilities, we should warn the reader from the outset that, since the proposal is, to the best of our knowledge, completely new and has been barely tested in solvable models, there might be caveats which we are presently unaware of and render the whole {\bf Master Constraint Programme} obsolete. Thus, this paper should really be viewed as a proposal only, rather than a presentation of hard results, which however we intend to supply in future submissions.

id: gr-qc/0305098
title: Loss of coherence from discrete quantum gravity
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, no figures, small final changes, to appear in Class. Quan. Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.21:L51-L57,2004
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0305098
abstract: We show that a recent proposal for the quantization of gravity based on discrete space-time implies a modification of standard quantum mechanics that naturally leads to a loss of coherence in quantum states of the type discussed by Milburn. The proposal overcomes the energy conservation problem of previously proposed decoherence mechanisms stemming from quantum gravity. Mesoscopic quantum systems (as Bose--Einstein condensates) appear as the most promising testing grounds for an experimental verification of the mechanism.

id: hep-ph/0305276
title: Hybrid Dirac Fields
authors: O.W. Greenberg
comments: 10 pages, acknowledgement added, to appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B567 (2003) 179-183
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0305276
abstract: Hybrid Dirac fields are fields that are general superpositions of the annihilation and creation parts of four Dirac spin 1/2 fields, $\psi^{(\pm)}(x;\pm m)$, whose annihilation and creation parts obey the Dirac equation with mass $m$ and mass $-m$. We discuss a specific case of such fields, which has been called ``homeotic.'' We show for this case, as is true in general for hybrid Dirac fields (except the ordinary fields whose annihilation and creation parts both obey one or the other Dirac equation), that (1) any interacting theory violates both Lorentz covariance and causality, (2) the discrete transformations $\mathcal{C}$, and $\mathcal{CPT}$ map the pair $\psi_h(x)$ and $\bar{\psi}_h(x)$ into fields that are not linear combinations of this pair, and (3) the chiral projections of $\psi_h(x)$ are sums of the usual Dirac fields with masses $m$ and $-m$; on these chiral projections $\mathcal{C}$, and $\mathcal{CPT}$ are defined in the usual way, their interactions do not violate $\mathcal{CPT}$, and interactions of chiral projections are Lorentz covariant and causal. In short, the main claims concerning ``homeotic'' fields are incorrect.

id: hep-th/0305026
title: Supersymmetric variational energies of 3d confined potentials
authors: Elso Drigo Filho, Regina Maria Ricotta
comments: 9 pages, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A320 (2003) 95-102
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305026
abstract: Within the approach of Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics associated with the variational method a recipe to construct the superpotential of three dimensional confined potentials in general is proposed. To illustrate the construction, the energies of the Harmonic Oscillator and the Hulth\'en potential, both confined in three dimensions are evaluated. Comparison with the corresponding results of other approximative and exact numerical results is presented.

id: hep-th/0305035
title: Renormalization in conformal quantum mechanics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 17 pages. Expanded, with additional emphasis in terms of the effective-field theory program. To be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett. A345 (2005) 22-30
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305035
abstract: The singular behavior of conformal interactions is examined within a comparative analysis of renormalization frameworks. The effective approach--inspired by the effective-field theory program--and its connection with the core framework are highlighted. Applications include black-hole thermodynamics, molecular dipole-bound anions, the Efimov effect, and various regimes of QED.

id: hep-th/0305041
title: Transmission resonances and supercritical states in a one dimensional cusp potential
authors: Victor M. Villalba, Walter Greiner
comments: 10 pages. Revtex 4. To appear in Phys Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305041
abstract: We solve the two-component Dirac equation in the presence of a spatially one dimensional symmetric cusp potential. We compute the scattering and bound states solutions and we derive the conditions for transmission resonances as well as for supercriticality.

id: hep-th/0305100
title: Non-linear quantum mechanics and high energy cosmic rays
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: Revised text as accepted for publication. Some new comments and references. Essential message unchanged
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 17 (2004) 197-202
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305100
abstract: We point out that the presence of energetic cosmic rays above the GZK cutoff may be explained by fundamental non-linearities in quantum mechanics at the Plank level.

id: hep-th/0305187
title: Observers and Measurements in Noncommutative Spacetimes
authors: Vyacheslav S. Rychkov
comments: 10 pp; v2: equivalence of observers explicitely stated; v3: minor changes, references and remarks added, burst spreading with energy emphasized as a signature rather than noise
journal: JCAP 0307 (2003) 006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305187
abstract: We propose a "Copenhagen interpretation" for spacetime noncommutativity. The goal is to be able to predict results of simple experiments involving signal propagation directly from commutation relations. A model predicting an energy dependence of the speed of photons of the order E/E_Planck is discussed in detail. Such effects can be detectable by the GLAST telescope, to be launched in 2006.

id: hep-th/0305193
title: Background Independent Quantum Mechanics and Gravity
authors: Djordje Minic, Chia-Hsiung Tze
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.D68:061501,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0305193
abstract: We argue that the demand of background independence in a quantum theory of gravity calls for an extension of standard geometric quantum mechanics. We discuss a possible kinematical and dynamical generalization of the latter by way of a quantum covariance of the state space. Specifically, we apply our scheme to the problem of a background independent formulation of Matrix Theory.

id: math-ph/0305021
title: Applications of Lie systems in Quantum Mechanics and Control Theory
authors: Jos¨¦ F. Cari?ena, Arturo Ramos
comments: LaTeX, 28 pages
journal: In the book: Classical and Quantum Integrability, Banach Center Publications, v, 59, p. 143 (2003)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0305021
abstract: Some simple examples from quantum physics and control theory are used to illustrate the application of the theory of Lie systems. We will show, in particular, that for certain physical models both of the corresponding classical and quantum problems can be treated in a similar way, may be up to the replacement of the involved Lie group by a central extension of it. The geometric techniques developed for dealing with Lie systems are also used in problems of control theory. Specifically, we will study some examples of control systems on Lie groups and homogeneous spaces.

id: math-ph/0305041
title: The Landau electron problem on a cylinder
authors: G. Date, P. P. Divakaran
comments: 26 pages, revtex file, no figures. In version 2, introduction is expanded to explain our approach and references are updated. Results and conclusions are unchanged
journal: Ann. Phys. 309 (2004), 421-441
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0305041
abstract: We consider the quantum mechanics of an electron confined to move on an infinite cylinder in the presence of a uniform radial magnetic field. This problem is in certain ways very similar to the corresponding problem on the infinite plane. Unlike the plane however, the group of symmetries of the magnetic field, namely, rotations about the axis and the axial translations, is {\em not} realized by the quantum electron but only a subgroup comprising rotations and discrete translations along the axial direction, is. The basic step size of discrete translations is such that the flux through the `unit cylinder cell' is quantized in units of the flux quantum. The result is derived in two different ways: using the condition of projective realization of symmetry groups and using the more familiar approach of determining the symmetries of a given Hamiltonian.

id: math/0305359
title: Linear maps on the space of all bounded observables preserving maximal deviation
authors: L. Molnar, M. Barczy
comments: 27 pages. To appear in J. Funct. Anal
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0305359
abstract: In this paper we determine all the bijective linear maps on the space of bounded observables which preserve a fixed moment or the variance. Nonlinear versions of the corresponding results are also presented.

id: nlin/0305060
title: On the canonically invariant calculation of Maslov indices
authors: M. Pletyukhov, M. Brack
comments: LaTeX, 13 figures, 3 tables, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 9449 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0305060
abstract: After a short review of various ways to calculate the Maslov index appearing in semiclassical Gutzwiller type trace formulae, we discuss a coordinate-independent and canonically invariant formulation recently proposed by A Sugita (2000, 2001). We give explicit formulae for its ingredients and test them numerically for periodic orbits in several Hamiltonian systems with mixed dynamics. We demonstrate how the Maslov indices and their ingredients can be useful in the classification of periodic orbits in complicated bifurcation scenarios, for instance in a novel sequence of seven orbits born out of a tangent bifurcation in the H\'enon-Heiles system.

id: nucl-th/0305076
title: Borromean binding
authors: Jean-Marc Richard
comments: 5 pages, Dedicated to V.B. Belyaev for his 70th birthday, to be included in a jubilee volume, edited by A.K.Motovilov and F.M.Pen'kov
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0305076
abstract: A review is first presented of the Hall--Post inequalities relating $N$-body to $(N-1)$-body energies of quantum bound states. These inequalities are then applied to delimit, in the space of coupling constants, the domain of Borromean binding where a composite system is bound while smaller subsystems are unbound.

id: physics/0305034
title: Characteristic Parameters in Integrated Photoelasticity: An Application of Poincare's Equivalence Theorem
authors: Hanno Hammer
comments: Two minor typos corrected
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Vol. 51, No. 4, 2004, pp. 597-618
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0305034
abstract: The Poincare Equivalence Theorem states that any optical element which contains no absorbing components can be replaced by an equivalent optical model which consists of one linear retarder and one rotator only, both of which are uniquely determined. This has many useful applications in the field of Optics of Polarized Light. In particular, it arises naturally in attempts to reconstruct spatially varying refractive tensors or dielectric tensors from measurements of the change of state of polarization of light beams passing through the medium, a field which is known as Tensor Tomography. A special case is Photoelasticity, where the internal stress of a transparent material may be reconstructed from knowledge of the local optical tensors by using the stress-optical laws. - We present a rigorous approach to the Poincare Equivalence Theorem by explicitly proving a matrix decomposition theorem, from which the Poincare Equivalence Theorem follows as a corollary. To make the paper self-contained we supplement a brief account of the Jones matrix formalism, at least as far as linear retarders and rotators are concerned. We point out the connection between the parameters of the Poincare-equivalent model to previously introduced notions of the Characteristic Parameters of an optical model in the engineering literature. Finally, we briefly illustrate how characteristic parameters and Poincare-equivalent models naturally arise in Photoelasticity.

id: physics/0305057
title: Raman Photoassociation of Bose-Fermi Mixtures and the Subsequent Prospects for Atom-Molecule Cooper Pairing
authors: Matt Mackie, Olavi Dannenberg, Jyrki Piilo, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Juha Javanainen
comments: v2: MAJOR redirection (see new abstract); accepted to PRA RC
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 053614
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0305057
abstract: We theoretically investigate Raman photoassociation of a degenerate Bose-Fermi mixture of atoms and the subsequent prospect for anomalous (Cooper) pairing between atoms and molecules. Stable fermionic molecules are created via free-bound-bound stimulated Raman adiabatic passage which, in contrast to purely bosonic systems, can occur in spite of collisions. With the leftover atomic condensate to enhance intrafermion interactions, the superfluid transition to atom-molecule Cooper pairs occurs at a temperature that is roughly an order of magnitude below what is currently feasible.

id: physics/0305127
title: Entanglement of two coupled molecules
authors: Y. Y. Liao, Y. N. Chen, D. S. Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0305127
abstract: Entangled states of two coupled polar molecules controlled by laser pulses are studied theoretically. Schmidt decomposition is used to measure the degree of entanglement. By varying the pulse shape of the applied laser, transition from regular to chaotic behavior may occur. This quantum feature is due to the inference of different phases. Moreover, the entanglement is also found to be enhanced by increasing the strength of the laser pulses.

id: physics/0305132
title: Classical-Wigner Phase Space Approximation to Cumulative Matrix Elements in Coherent Control
authors: B. R. McQuarrie, Dmitri G. Abrashkevich, Paul Brumer
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, to appear in Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 119, 3606 (2003).
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0305132
abstract: The classical limit of the Wigner-Weyl representation is used to approximate products of bound-continuum matrix elements that are fundamental to many coherent control computations. The range of utility of the method is quantified through an examination of model problems, single-channel Na_2 dissociation and multi-arrangement channel photodissociation of CH_2IBr. Very good agreement with the exact quantum results is found for a wide range of system parameters.

id: cond-mat/0305351
title: Altruistic Duality in Evolutionary Game Theory
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: ReVTeX4, 4 papes, 2 ifigures, Typos corrected for publication
journal: Phys. Lett. A 318 (2003) 327-331
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0305351
abstract: A game-theoretic model of social preference and enlightened self-interest is formulated. Existence of symmetry and duality in the game matrices with altruistic social preference is revealed. The model is able to quantitatively describe the dynamical evolution of altruism in prisoner's dilemma and the regime change in prey-predator dynamics.

