id: quant-ph/0306054
title: Spatial search by quantum walk
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Jeffrey Goldstone
comments: v2: 12 pages, 4 figures; published version, with improved arguments for the cases where the algorithm fails
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022314 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306054
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm provides a way to speed up combinatorial search, but is not directly applicable to searching a physical database. Nevertheless, Aaronson and Ambainis showed that a database of N items laid out in d spatial dimensions can be searched in time of order sqrt(N) for d>2, and in time of order sqrt(N) poly(log N) for d=2. We consider an alternative search algorithm based on a continuous time quantum walk on a graph. The case of the complete graph gives the continuous time search algorithm of Farhi and Gutmann, and other previously known results can be used to show that sqrt(N) speedup can also be achieved on the hypercube. We show that full sqrt(N) speedup can be achieved on a d-dimensional periodic lattice for d>4. In d=4, the quantum walk search algorithm takes time of order sqrt(N) poly(log N), and in d<4, the algorithm does not provide substantial speedup.

id: quant-ph/0306140
title: Quantum walks on general graphs
authors: Viv Kendon
comments: 8 pages, v2: substantial rewrite improves clarity, corrects errors and omissions; v3: removes major error in final section and integrates remainder into other sections, figures removed
journal: Int. J. Quantum Info. Vol. 4, No. 5 (2006) 791-805
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0306140
abstract: Quantum walks, both discrete (coined) and continuous time, on a general graph of N vertices with undirected edges are reviewed in some detail. The resource requirements for implementing a quantum walk as a program on a quantum computer are compared and found to be very similar for both discrete and continuous time walks. The role of the oracle, and how it changes if more prior information about the graph is available, is also discussed.

