id: quant-ph/0307001
title: Spectral and thermodynamical properties of systems with noncanonical commutation rules: semiclassical approach
authors: J.C. Flores, S. Montecinos
comments: Submitted to Rev.Mex.Fis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307001
abstract: We study different quantum one dimensional systems with noncanonical commutation rule $[x,p]=i\hbar (1+sH),$ where $H$ is the one particle Hamiltonian and $s$ is a parameter. This is carried-out using semiclassical arguments and the surmise $\hbar \to \hbar (1+sE),$ where $E$ is the energy. We compute the spectrum of the potential box, the harmonic oscillator, and a more general power-law potential $| x| ^{\nu}$% . With the above surmise, and changing the size of the elementary cell in the phase space, we obtain an expression for the partition function of these systems. We calculate the first order correction in $s$ for the internal energy and heat capacity. We apply our technique to the ideal gas, the phonon gas, and to $N$ non-interacting particles with external potential like $| x| ^{\nu}$.

id: quant-ph/0307002
title: Spectral properties on a circle with a singularity
authors: Tamas Fulop, Izumi Tsutsui, Taksu Cheon
comments: TeX, 26 pages. v2: one reference added and two updated
journal: J. of Phys. Soc. Jpn 72 (2003) 2737-2746.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307002
abstract: We investigate the spectral and symmetry properties of a quantum particle moving on a circle with a pointlike singularity (or point interaction). We find that, within the U(2) family of the quantum mechanically allowed distinct singularities, a U(1) equivalence (of duality-type) exists, and accordingly the space of distinct spectra is U(1) x [SU(2)/U(1)], topologically a filled torus. We explore the relationship of special subfamilies of the U(2) family to corresponding symmetries, and identify the singularities that admit an N = 2 supersymmetry. Subfamilies that are distinguished in the spectral properties or the WKB exactness are also pointed out. The spectral and symmetry properties are also studied in the context of the circle with two singularities, which provides a useful scheme to discuss the symmetry properties on a general basis.

id: quant-ph/0307003
title: Experimental Detection of Entanglement with Polarized Photons
authors: M. Barbieri, F. De Martini, G. Di Nepi, P. Mataloni, G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307003
abstract: We report on the first experimental realization of the entanglement witness for polarization entangled photons. It represents a recently discovered significant quantum information protocol which is based on few local measurements. The present demonstration has been applied to the so-called Werner states, a family of ''mixed'' quantum states that include both entangled and non entangled states. These states have been generated by a novel high brilliance source of entanglement which allows to continuously tune the degree of mixedness.

id: quant-ph/0307004
title: Decoherence and recoherence from vacuum fluctuations near a conducting plate
authors: Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Juan Pablo Paz, Alejandro Villanueva
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307004
abstract: The interaction between particles and the electromagnetic field induces decoherence generating a small suppression of fringes in an interference experiment. We show that if a double slit--like experiment is performed in the vicinity of a conducting plane, the fringe visibility depends on the position (and orientation) of the experiment relative to the conductor's plane. This phenomenon is due to the change in the structure of vacuum induced by the conductor and is closely related to the Casimir effect. We estimate the fringe visibility both for charged and for neutral particles with a permanent dipole moment. The presence of the conductor may tend to increase decoherence in some cases and to reduce it in others. A simple explanation for this peculiar behavior is presented.

id: quant-ph/0307005
title: Influence of the detector's temperature on the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Julius Ruseckas
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66 012105 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307005
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum Zeno effect using the irreversible model of the measurement. The detector is modeled as a harmonic oscillator interacting with the environment. The oscillator is subjected to the force, proportional to the energy of the measured system. We use the Lindblad-type master equation to model the interaction with the environment. The influence of the detector's temperature on the quantum Zeno effect is obtained. It is shown that the quantum Zeno effect becomes stronger (the jump probability decreases) when the detector's temperature increases.

id: quant-ph/0307006
title: Weak measurement of arrival time
authors: J. Ruseckas, B. Kaulakys
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 052106 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307006
abstract: The arrival time probability distribution is defined by analogy with the classical mechanics. The difficulty of requirement to have the values of non-commuting operators is circumvented using the concept of weak measurements. The proposed procedure is suitable to the free particles and to the particles subjected to an external potential, as well. It is shown that such an approach imposes an inherent limitation to the accuracy of the arrival time determination.

id: quant-ph/0307007
title: On the uncertainty relations for angular observables and beyond them
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307007
abstract: For angular observables pairs (angular momentum-angle and number-phase) the adequate reference element of normality is not the Robertson-Schr\"{o}dinger uncertainty relation but a Schwarz formula regarding the quantum fluctuations. Beyond such a fact the traditional interpretation of the uncertainty relations appears as an unjustified doctrine.

id: quant-ph/0307008
title: On the quantum measurements from a reconsidered perspective
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307008
abstract: For theoretical approach of quantum measurements it is proposed a set of reconsidered conjectures. The proposed approach implies linear functional transformations for probability density and current but preserves the expressions for operators of observables. The measuring uncertainties appear as changes in the probabilistic estimators of observables.

id: quant-ph/0307009
title: Entanglement versus Correlations in Spin Systems
authors: F. Verstraete, M. Popp, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 027901 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307009
abstract: We consider pure quantum states of $N\gg 1$ spins or qubits and study the average entanglement that can be \emph{localized} between two separated spins by performing local measurements on the other individual spins. We show that all classical correlation functions provide lower bounds to this \emph{localizable entanglement}, which follows from the observation that classical correlations can always be increased by doing appropriate local measurements on the other qubits. We analyze the localizable entanglement in familiar spin systems and illustrate the results on the hand of the Ising spin model, in which we observe characteristic features for a quantum phase transition such as a diverging entanglement length.

id: quant-ph/0307010
title: Anatomy of a quantum `bounce'
authors: M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 13 pages, 5 separate .ps figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 20, 29 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307010
abstract: We discuss some of the properties of the `collision' of a quantum mechanical wave packet with an infinitely high potential barrier, focusing on novel aspects such as the detailed time-dependence of the momentum-space probability density and the time variation of the uncertainty principle product $\Delta x_t \cdot \Delta p_t$. We make explicit use of Gaussian-like wave packets in the analysis, but also comment on other general forms.

id: quant-ph/0307011
title: Maximal violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for four-level systems
authors: Li-Bin Fu, Jing-Ling Chen, Shi-Gang Chen
comments: 7 pages, three tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 034305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307011
abstract: Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for bipartite systems of 4-dimension is studied in detail by employing the unbiased eight-port beam splitters measurements. The uniform formulae for the maximum and minimum values of this inequality for such measurements are obtained. Based on these formulae, we show that an optimal non-maximally entangled state is about 6% more resistant to noise than the maximally entangled one. We also give the optimal state and the optimal angles which are important for experimental realization.

id: quant-ph/0307012
title: Off-diagonal generalization of the mixed state geometric phase
authors: Stefan Filipp, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor corrections, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042112 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307012
abstract: The concept of off-diagonal geometric phases for mixed quantal states in unitary evolution is developed. We show that these phases arise from three basic ideas: (1) fulfillment of quantum parallel transport of a complete basis, (2) a concept of mixed state orthogonality adapted to unitary evolution, and (3) a normalization condition. We provide a method for computing the off-diagonal mixed state phases to any order for unitarities that divide the parallel transported basis of Hilbert space into two parts: one part where each basis vector undergoes cyclic evolution and one part where all basis vectors are permuted among each other. We also demonstrate a purification based experimental procedure for the two lowest order mixed state phases and consider a physical scenario for a full characterization of the qubit mixed state geometric phases in terms of polarization-entangled photon pairs. An alternative second order off-diagonal mixed state geometric phase, which can be tested in single-particle experiments, is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0307013
title: Quantum Theory and Time Asymmetry
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: Latex version of a paper published in 1979 (with minor revisions), 18 pages
journal: Found. Phys. 9, 803 (1979)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307013
abstract: The relation between quantum measurement and thermodynamically irreversible processes is investigated. The reduction of the state vector is fundamentally asymmetric in time and shows an observer-relatedness which may explain the double interpretation of the state vector as a representation of physical states as well as of information about them. The concept of relevance being used in all statistical theories of irreversible thermodynamics is shown to be based on the same observer-relatedness. Quantum theories of irreversible processes implicitly use an objectivized process of state vector reduction. The conditions for the reduction are discussed, and I speculate that the final (subjective) observer system might even be carried by a spacetime point.

id: quant-ph/0307014
title: Comparing classical and quantum probability distributions for an asymmetric infinite well
authors: M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 17 pages, 6 separate .ps figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 21, 217 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307014
abstract: We compare the classical and quantum mechanical position-space probability densities for a particle in an asymmetric infinite well. In an idealized system with a discontinuous step in the middle of the well, the classical and quantum probability distributions agree fairly well, even for relatively small quantum numbers, except for anomalous cases which are due to the unphysical nature of the potential. We are able to derive upper and lower bounds on the differences between the quantum and classical results. We also qualitatively discuss the momentum-space probability densities for this system using intuitive ideas about how much time a classical particle spends in various parts of the well. This system provides an excellent example of a non-trivial, but tractable, quantum mechanical bound state problem where the correlations between the amplitude and curvature of quantum mechanical wavefunctions can be easily compared to classical intuition about particle motion, with quantitative success, but also warning of possible surprises in non-physical limiting cases.

id: quant-ph/0307015
title: Bounds on the Probability of Success of Postselected Non-linear Sign Shifts Implemented with Linear Optics
authors: E. Knill
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307015
abstract: The fundamental gates of linear optics quantum computation are realized by using single photons sources, linear optics and photon counters. Success of these gates is conditioned on the pattern of photons detected without using feedback. Here it is shown that the maximum probability of success of these gates is typically strictly less than 1. For the one-mode non-linear sign shift, the probability of success is bounded by 1/2. For the conditional sign shift of two modes, this probability is bounded by 3/4. These bounds are still substantially larger than the highest probabilities shown to be achievable so far, which are 1/4 and 2/27, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0307016
title: Entangled states maximize the two qubit channel capacity for some Pauli channels with memory
authors: C. Macchiavello, G. M. Palma, S. Virmani
comments: 4 pages no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A., 69, 010303(R), (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307016
abstract: We prove that a general upper bound on the maximal mutual information of quantum channels is saturated in the case of Pauli channels with an arbitrary degree of memory. For a subset of such channels we explicitly identify the optimal signal states. We show analytically that for such a class of channels entangled states are indeed optimal above a given memory threshold. It is noteworthy that the resulting channel capacity is a non-differentiable function of the memory parameter.

id: quant-ph/0307017
title: Quaternionic Computing
authors: Jose M. Fernandez, William A. Schneeberger
comments: Version 2: 32 pages, 8 PS figures. Ver 2 is a substantially revised version, which addresses a major problem with the previous version: the output of quaternionic circuits is in general ambiguous unless an total order of evaluation of gates is defined. The main complexity result is essentially unaffected. This version addresses this issue and discusses in detail the complexity and physical consequences of this "ambiguity"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307017
abstract: We introduce a model of computation based on quaternions, which is inspired on the quantum computing model. Pure states are vectors of a suitable linear space over the quaternions. Other aspects of the theory are the same as in quantum computing: superposition and linearity of the state space, unitarity of the transformations, and projective measurements. However, one notable exception is the fact that quaternionic circuits do not have a uniquely defined behaviour, unless a total ordering of evaluation of the gates is defined. Given such an ordering a unique unitary operator can be associated with the quaternionic circuit and a proper semantics of computation can be associated with it. The main result of this paper consists in showing that this model is no more powerful than quantum computing, as long as such an ordering of gates can be defined. More concretely we show, that for all quaternionic computation using n quaterbits, the behaviour of the circuit for each possible gate ordering can be simulated with n+1 qubits, and this with little or no overhead in circuit size. The proof of this result is inspired of a new simplified and improved proof of the equivalence of a similar model based on real amplitudes to quantum computing, which states that any quantum computation using n qubits can be simulated with n+1 rebits, and in this with no circuit size overhead. Beyond this potential computational equivalence, however, we propose this model as a simpler framework in which to discuss the possibility of a quaternionic quantum mechanics or information theory. In particular, it already allows us to illustrate that the introduction of quaternions might violate some of the ``natural'' properties that we have come to expect from physical models.

id: quant-ph/0307018
title: Ehrenfest theorem, Galilean invariance and nonlinear Schr?dinger equations
authors: G. K?lbermann
comments: Latex format, no figures, submitted to journal of physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307018
abstract: Galilean invariant Schr\"odinger equations possessing nonlinear terms coupling the amplitude and the phase of the wave function can violate the Ehrenfest theorem. An example of this kind is provided. The example leads to the proof of the theorem: A Galilean invariant Schr\"odinger equation derived from a lagrangian density obeys the Ehrenfest theorem. The theorem holds for any linear or nonlinear lagrangian.

id: quant-ph/0307019
title: From Fermat's last theorem to the quantum computer
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeXe, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307019
abstract: Despite of an active work of many researchers in the theory of quantum computations, this area still saves some mysterious charm. It is already an almost common idea, that maybe many fashionable current projects will fade in future, but some absolutely unpredictable applications appear instead. Why such optimistic predictions are legal here, despite of an extreme difficulty to suggest each one new promising quantum algorithm or realistic "industrial" application? One reason -- is very deep contents of this area. It maybe only an extremely unlucky occasion, if such a fundamental thing won't supply us with some bright insights and serious new applications. A sign of such nontrivial contents of a theory -- are unexpected links between different branches of our knowledge. In the present paper is mentioned one such link -- between application of Weyl quantization in the theory of quantum computations and abstract mathematical constructions born in mid of XIX century due to unsuccessful tries to prove Fermat's last theorem.

id: quant-ph/0307020
title: Quantum wave packet revivals in circular billiards
authors: R. W. Robinett, S. Heppelmann
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 062103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307020
abstract: We examine the long-term time-dependence of Gaussian wave packets in a circular infinite well (billiard) system and find that there are approximate revivals. For the special case of purely $m=0$ states (central wave packets with no momentum) the revival time is $T_{rev}^{(m=0)} = 8\mu R^2/\hbar \pi$, where $\mu$ is the mass of the particle, and the revivals are almost exact. For all other wave packets, we find that $T_{rev}^{(m \neq 0)} = (\pi^2/2) T_{rev}^{(m=0)} \approx 5T_{rev}^{(m=0)}$ and the nature of the revivals becomes increasingly approximate as the average angular momentum or number of $m \neq 0$ states is/are increased. The dependence of the revival structure on the initial position, energy, and angular momentum of the wave packet and the connection to the energy spectrum is discussed in detail. The results are also compared to two other highly symmetrical 2D infinite well geometries with exact revivals, namely the square and equilateral triangle billiards. We also show explicitly how the classical periodicity for closed orbits in a circular billiard arises from the energy eigenvalue spectrum, using a WKB analysis.

id: quant-ph/0307021
title: Optical Schemes for Quantum Computation in Quantum Dot Molecules
authors: Brendon Lovett, John Henry Reina, Ahsan Nazir, Andrew Briggs
comments: 20 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68 205319 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307021
abstract: We give three methods for entangling quantum states in quantum dots. We do this by showing how to tailor the resonant energy (Foerster-Dexter) transfer mechanisms and the biexciton binding energy in a quantum dot molecule. We calculate the magnitude of these two electrostatic interactions as a function of dot size, interdot separation, material composition, confinement potential and applied electric field by using an envelope function approximation in a two-cuboid dot molecule. In the first implementation, we show that it is desirable to suppress the Foerster coupling and to create entanglement by using the biexciton energy alone. We show how to perform universal quantum logic in a second implementation which uses the biexciton energy together with appropriately tuned laser pulses: by selecting appropriate materials parameters high fidelity logic can be achieved. The third implementation proposes generating quantum entanglement by switching the Foerster interaction itself. We show that the energy transfer can be fast enough in certain dot structures that switching can occur on a timescale which is much less than the typical decoherence times.

id: quant-ph/0307022
title: Geometric Phase in a Bose-Einstein Josephson Junction
authors: Radha Balakrishnan, Mitaxi Mehta
comments: 32 pages 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307022
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase associated with the time evolution of the wave function of a Bose-Einstein condensate system in a double-well trap by using a model for tunneling between the wells. For a cyclic evolution, this phase is shown to be half the solid angle subtended by the evolution of a unit vector whose z component and azimuthal angle are given by the population difference and phase difference between the two condensates. For a non-cyclic evolution an additional phase term arises. We show that the geometric phase can also be obtained by mapping the tunneling equations onto the equations os a space curve. The importance of a geometric phase in the context of some recent experiments is pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0307023
title: Lower bounds on the entanglement of formation for general Gaussian states
authors: G. Rigolin, C. O. Escobar
comments: 6 pages, no figures, RevTex4, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307023
abstract: We derive two lower bounds on entanglement of formation for arbitrary mixed Gaussian states by two distinct methods. To achieve the first one we use a local measurement procedure derived by Giedke et al [Quantum Inf. and Comp. vol.1, 79 (2001)] that symmetrizes a general Gaussian state and the fact that entanglement cannot increase under local operations and classical communications. The second one is obtained via a generalization to mixed states of an interesting result derived by Giedke et al [quant-ph/0304042], who show that squeezed states are those that, for a fixed amount of entanglement, maximize Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-like correlations.

id: quant-ph/0307024
title: On Quantum Operations as Quantum States
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Christophe Patricot
comments: Revtex, 14 pages, v4: changed citations
journal: Annals Phys. 311 (2004) 26-52
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307024
abstract: We formalize the correspondence between quantum states and quantum operations isometrically, and harness its consequences. This correspondence was already implicit in the various proofs of the operator sum representation of Completely Positive-preserving linear maps; we go further and show that all of the important theorems concerning quantum operations can be derived directly from those concerning quantum states. As we do so the discussion first provides an elegant and original review of the main features of quantum operations. Next (in the second half of the paper) we find more results stemming from our formulation of the correspondence. Thus we provide a factorizability condition for quantum operations, and give two novel Schmidt-type decompositions of bipartite pure states. By translating the composition law of quantum operations, we define a group structure upon the set of totally entangled states. The question whether the correspondence is merely mathematical or can be given a physical interpretation is addressed throughout the text: we provide formulae which suggest quantum states inherently define a quantum operation between two of their subsystems, and which turn out to have applications in quantum cryptography. Keywords: Kraus, CP-maps, superoperators, extremality, trace-preserving, factorizable, triangular.

id: quant-ph/0307025
title: Enhanced single-photon emission from a quantum dot in a micropost microcavity
authors: Jelena Vuckovic, David Fattal, Charles Santori, Glenn Solomon, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters, vol. 82, pp. 3596-3598, May 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307025
abstract: We demonstrate a single-photon source based on a quantum dot in a micropost microcavity that exhibits a large Purcell factor together with a small multi-photon probability. For a quantum dot on resonance with the cavity, the spontaneous emission rate is increased by a factor of five, while the probability to emit two or more photons in the same pulse is reduced to 2% compared to a Poisson-distributed source of the same intensity. In addition to the small multi-photon probability, such a strong Purcell effect is important in a single-photon source for improving the photon outcoupling efficiency and the single-photon generation rate, and for bringing the emitted photon pulses closer to the Fourier transform limit.

id: quant-ph/0307026
title: Measurement, Trace, Information Erasure and Entropy
authors: Qing-Yu Cai
comments: 8pages. Reported on the Conference of Chinese Physics Society (2003 autumn):Quantum information conncil house
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307026
abstract: We show that both information erasure process and trace process can be realized by projective measurement. And a partial trace operation consists to a projective measurement on a subsystem. We show that a nonunitary operation will destroy the wave-behavior of a particle. We give a quantum manifestation of Maxwell's demon and give a quantum manifestation of the second law of therodynamics. We show that, considering the law of memontum-energy conversation, the evolution of a closed system should be unitary and the von Neumann entropy of the closed quantum system should be least.

id: quant-ph/0307027
title: Faithful remote state preparation using finite classical bits and a non-maximally entangled state
authors: M.-Y. Ye, Y.-S. Zhang, G.-C. Guo
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307027
abstract: We present many ensembles of states that can be remotely prepared by using minimum classical bits from Alice to Bob and their previously shared entangled state and prove that we have found all the ensembles in two-dimensional case. Furthermore we show that any pure quantum state can be remotely and faithfully prepared by using finite classical bits from Alice to Bob and their previously shared nonmaximally entangled state though no faithful quantum teleportation protocols can be achieved by using a nonmaximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0307028
title: Characterizing the spin state of an atomic ensemble using the magneto-optical resonance method
authors: B. Julsgaard, J. Sherson, J. L. Sorensen, E. S. Polzik
comments: 12 pages ReVTeX, 6 figures, in v2 added ref. and corrected typos
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., vol. 6, p. 5 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307028
abstract: Quantum information protocols utilizing atomic ensembles require preparation of a coherent spin state (CSS) of the ensemble as an important starting point. We investigate the magneto-optical resonance method for characterizing a spin state of cesium atoms in a paraffin coated vapor cell. Atoms in a constant magnetic field are subject to an off-resonant laser beam and an RF magnetic field. The spectrum of the Zeeman sub-levels, in particular the weak quadratic Zeeman effect, enables us to measure the spin orientation, the number of atoms, and the transverse spin coherence time. Notably the use of 894nm pumping light on the D1-line, ensuring the state F=4, m_F=4 to be a dark state, helps us to achieve spin orientation of better than 98%. Hence we can establish a CSS with high accuracy which is critical for the analysis of the entangled states of atoms.

id: quant-ph/0307029
title: Quantization of the stag hunt game and the Nash equilibrilum
authors: Norihito Toyota
comments: 12 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307029
abstract: In this paper I quantize the stag hunt game in the framework proposed by Marinatto and Weber which, is introduced to quantize the Battle of the Sexes game and gives a general quntization scheme of various game theories. Then I discuss the Nash equibilium solution in the cases of which starting strategies are taken in both non entangled state and entangled state and uncover the structure of Nash Equilibrium solutions and compare the case of the Battle of the Sexes game. Since the game has 4 parameters in the payoff matrix has rather rich structure than the Battle of the Sexes game with 3-parameters in the payoff matrix, the relations of the magnitude of these payoff values in Nash Equilibriums are much involuved. This structure is uncovered completly and it is found that the best strategy which give the maximal sum of the payoffs of both players strongly depends on the initial quntum state. As the bonus of the formulation the stag hunt game with four parameters we can discuss various types of symmetric games played by two players by using the latter formulation, i.e. Chicken game. As result some common properties are found between them and the stag hunt game. Lastly a little remark is made on Prisoner's Dillemma.

id: quant-ph/0307030
title: Loss of the sensitivity of a gravitational wave detector due to temperature
authors: A. M. Sinev
comments: AMSLaTeX, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307030
abstract: Using an explicit solution for the Schr\"odinger equation describing the model of the gravitational wave detector (LIGO-project), we prove that the SQL (standard quantum limit) for dimensionless amplitude for gravitational perturbations of metric exceeds $10^{-19}$ at temperature 100K.

id: quant-ph/0307031
title: Multipole interaction between atoms and their photonic environment
authors: Martijn Wubs, L.G. Suttorp, A. Lagendijk
comments: 17 pages, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 013822 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307031
abstract: Macroscopic field quantization is presented for a nondispersive photonic dielectric environment, both in the absence and presence of guest atoms. Starting with a minimal-coupling Lagrangian, a careful look at functional derivatives shows how to obtain Maxwell's equations before and after choosing a suitable gauge. A Hamiltonian is derived with a multipolar interaction between the guest atoms and the electromagnetic field. Canonical variables and fields are determined and in particular the field canonically conjugate to the vector potential is identified by functional differentiation as minus the full displacement field. An important result is that inside the dielectric a dipole couples to a field that is neither the (transverse) electric nor the macroscopic displacement field. The dielectric function is different from the bulk dielectric function at the position of the dipole, so that local-field effects must be taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0307032
title: Tests of quantum-vacuum geometric phases via Casimir's effect
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 2 pages, Latex
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 6: L13-L17 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307032
abstract: An experimentally feasible realization of testing quantum-vacuum geometric phases of photons by using a gyrotropic-medium optical fibre via Casimir's effect is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0307033
title: Spatial correlations of vacuum fluctuations and the Casimir-Polder potential
authors: R. Passante, F. Persico, L. Rizzuto
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307033
abstract: We calculate the Casimir-Polder intermolecular potential using an effective Hamiltonian recently introduced. We show that the potential can be expressed in terms of the dynamical polarizabilities of the two atoms and the equal-time spatial correlation of the electric field in the vacuum state. This gives support to an interesting physical model recently proposed in the literature, where the potential is obtained from the classical interaction between the instantaneous atomic dipoles induced and correlated by the vacuum fluctuations. Also, the results obtained suggest a more general validity of this intuitive model, for example when external boundaries or thermal fields are present.

id: quant-ph/0307034
title: Decoherence as a Probe of Coherent Quantum Dynamics
authors: Michael B. d'Arcy, Rachel M. Godun, Gil S. Summy, Italo Guarneri, Sandro Wimberger, Shmuel Fishman, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. E as a Brief Report. New version contains minor clarifying modifications to previous version, plus an additional reference [17]
journal: Phys. Rev. E 69, 027201 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307034
abstract: The effect of decoherence, induced by spontaneous emission, on the dynamics of cold atoms periodically kicked by an optical lattice is experimentally and theoretically studied. Ideally, the mean energy growth is essentially unaffected by weak decoherence, but the resonant momentum distributions are fundamentally altered. It is shown that experiments are inevitably sensitive to certain nontrivial features of these distributions, in a way that explains the puzzle of the observed enhancement of resonances by decoherence [Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 074102 (2001)]. This clarifies both the nature of the coherent evolution, and the way in which decoherence disrupts it.

id: quant-ph/0307035
title: Quantum mechanics of the two-dimensional circular billiard plus baffle system and half-integral angular momentum
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 24 (2003) 231
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307035
abstract: We examine the quantum mechanical eigensolutions of the two-dimensional infinite well or quantum billiard system consisting of a circular boundary with an infinite barrier or baffle along a radius. Because of the change in boundary conditions, this system includes quantized angular momentum values corresponding to half-integral multiples of $\hbar/2$. We discuss the resulting energy eigenvalue spectrum and visualize some of the novel energy eigenstates found in this system. We also discuss the density of energy eigenvalues, $N(E)$, comparing this system to the standard circular well. These two billiard geometries have the same area (A=$\pi R^2$), but different perimeters ($P=2\pi R$ versus $(2\pi + 2) R$), and we compare both cases to fits of $N(E)$ which make use of purely geometric arguments involving only $A$ and $P$. We also point out connections between the angular solutions of this system and the familiar pedagogical example of the one-dimensional infinite well plus $\delta$-function potential.

id: quant-ph/0307036
title: Dynamics of entanglement in quantum computers with imperfections
authors: Simone Montangero, Giuliano Benenti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 187901 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307036
abstract: The dynamics of the pairwise entanglement in a qubit lattice in the presence of static imperfections exhibits different regimes. We show that there is a transition from a perturbative region, where the entanglement is stable against imperfections, to the ergodic regime, in which a pair of qubits becomes entangled with the rest of the lattice and the pairwise entanglement drops to zero. The transition is almost independent of the size of the quantum computer. We consider both the case of an initial maximally entangled and separable state. In this last case there is a broad crossover region in which the computer imperfections can be used to create a significant amount of pairwise entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0307037
title: Quantum Process
authors: Jason Smith
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307037
abstract: The exact scattering solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation in cylindrically symmetric field are constructed as eigenfunctions of a complete set of commuting operators. The matrix elements and the corresponding differential scattering cross-section are calculated. Properties of the pair production at various limits are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0307038
title: Minimum-error discrimination between a pure and a mixed two-qubit state
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the 10th CEWQO, submitted to J. Opt. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307038
abstract: The problem of discriminating with minimum error between two mixed quantum states is reviewed, with emphasize on the detection operators necessary for performing the measurement. An analytical result is derived for the minimum probability of errors in deciding whether the state of a quantum system is either a given pure state or a uniform statistical mixture of any number of mutually orthogonal states. The result is applied to two-qubit states, and the minimum error probabilities achievable by collective and local measurements on the qubits are compared.

id: quant-ph/0307039
title: Decoherence in a driven three-level system
authors: A.R.P.Rau, Weichang Zhao
comments: 8 pages, 17 figures in tar.gz
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052102 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307039
abstract: Dissipation and decoherence, and the evolution from pure to mixed states in quantum physics are handled through master equations for the density matrix. Master equations such as the Lindblad equation preserve the trace of this matrix. Viewing them as first-order time-dependent operator equations for the elements of the density matrix, a unitary integration procedure can be adapted to solve for these matrix elements. A simple model for decoherence preserves the hermiticity of the density matrix. A single, classical Riccati equation is the only one requiring numerical handling to obtain a full solution of the quantum evolution. The procedure is general, valid for any number of levels, but is illustrated here for a three-level system with two driving fields. For various choices of the initial state, we study the evolution of the system as a function of the amplitudes, relative frequencies and phases of the driven fields, and of the strength of the decoherence. The monotonic growth of the entropy is followed as the system evolves from a pure to a mixed state. An example is provided by the $n=3$ states of the hydrogen atom in a time-dependent electric field, such degenerate manifolds affording an analytical solution.

id: quant-ph/0307040
title: Decoherence free algebra
authors: Yoshiko Ogata
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A v2.minor change
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307040
abstract: We consider the decoherence free subalgebra which satisfies the minimal condition introduced by Alicki. We show the manifest form of it and relate the subalgebra with the Kraus representation. The arguments also provides a new proof for generalized L\"{u}ders theorem.

id: quant-ph/0307041
title: Visualizing the collapse and revival of wavepackets in the infinite square well using expectation values
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 34 pages, 11 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 68 (2000) 410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307041
abstract: We investigate the short-, medium-, and long-term time dependence of wave packets in the infinite square well. In addition to emphasizing the appearance of wave packet revivals, i.e., situations where a spreading wave packet reforms with close to its initial shape and width, we also examine in detail the approach to the collapsed phase where the position-space probability density is almost uniformly spread over the well. We focus on visualizing these phenomena in both position- and momentum-space as well as by following the time-dependent expectation values of and uncertainties in position and momentum. We discuss the time scales for wave packet collapse, using both an autocorrelation function analysis, as well as focusing on expectation values and find two relevant time scales which describe different aspects of the decay phase. In an Appendix, we briefly discuss wave packet revival and collapse in a more general, one-dimensional power-law potential given by $V_{(k)}(x) = V_0|x/a|^k$ which interpolates between the case of the harmonic oscillator ($k=2$) and the infinite well ($k=\infty$).

id: quant-ph/0307042
title: Baseband Detection of Bistatic Electron Spin Signals in Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (MRFM)
authors: Chun-yu Yip, Alfred O. Hero, Daniel Rugar, Jeffrey A. Fessler
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, revision of paper contains correction to a typo on the first page (introduction section)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307042
abstract: In single spin Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (MRFM), the objective is to detect the presence of an electron (or nuclear) spin in a sample volume by measuring spin-induced attonewton forces using a micromachined cantilever. In the OSCAR method of single spin MRFM, the spins are manipulated by an external rf field to produce small periodic deviations in the resonant frequency of the cantilever. These deviations can be detected by frequency demodulation followed by conventional amplitude or energy detection. In this paper, we present an alternative to these detection methods, based on optimal detection theory and Gibbs sampling. On the basis of simulations, we show that our detector outperforms the conventional amplitude and energy detectors for realistic MRFM operating conditions. For example, to achieve a 10% false alarm rate and an 80% correct detection rate our detector has an 8 dB SNR advantage as compared with the conventional amplitude or energy detectors. Furthermore, at these detection rates it comes within 4 dB of the omniscient matched-filter lower bound.

id: quant-ph/0307043
title: Two-way teleportation
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Ravindra W. Chhajlany
comments: 
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 104, 409 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307043
abstract: A protocol for teleporting two qudits simultaneously in opposite directions using a single pair of maximally entangled qudits is presented. This procedure works provided that the product of dimensions of the two qudits to be teleported does not exceed the dimension of the individual qudits in the maximally entangled pair.

id: quant-ph/0307044
title: Appearance of Schrodinger Cat States in the Measurement Process
authors: G. B. Lesovik, A. V. Lebedev, G. Blatter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307044
abstract: Although quantum mechanics is a mature theory, fundamental problems discussed during its time of foundation have remained with us to this day. These problems are centered on the problematic relation between the quantum and classical worlds. The most famous element is the measurement problem, i.e., the measurement of a quantum system by a classical apparatus, and the concomitant phenomena of wave packet reduction, the appearance of probability, and the problems related to Schr\"odinger cat states. A fundamental question in this context is whether quantum mechanics can bootstrap itself to the classical world: is quantum mechanics self-consistent, such that the measurement process can be understood within quantum mechanics itself, or does this process require additional elements from the realm outside of traditional quantum mechanics? Here, we point to a problematic aspect in the traditional Schr\"odinger cat argument which can be overcome through its extension with a proper macroscopic preparation device; the deliberate creation of a cat state and its identification then turns into a non-trivial problem requiring the determination of the evolution of a quantum system entangled with a macroscopic reservoir. We describe a new type of wave-function correlator testing for the appearance of Schr\"odinger cat states and discuss its implications for theories deriving the wave function collapse from a unitary evolution.

id: quant-ph/0307045
title: Entangling two atoms via spontaneous emission
authors: R Tanas, Z. Ficek
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307045
abstract: We discuss the creation of entanglement between two two-level atoms in the dissipative process of spontaneous emission. It is shown that spontaneous emission can lead to a transient entanglement between the atoms even if the atoms were prepared initially in an unentangled state. The amount of entanglement created in the system is quantified by using two different measures: concurrence and negativity. We find analytical formulas for the evolution of concurrence and negativity in the system. We also find the analytical relation between the two measures of entanglement. The system consists of two two-level atoms which are separated by an arbitrary distance $r_{12}$ and interact with each other via the dipole-dipole interaction, and the antisymmetric state of the system is included throughout, even for small inter-atomic separations, in contrast to the small sample model. It is shown that for sufficiently large values of the dipole-dipole interaction initially the entanglement exhibits oscillatory behaviour with considerable entanglement in the peaks. For longer times the amount of entanglement is directly related to the population of the slowly decaying antisymmetric state.

id: quant-ph/0307046
title: Expectation value analysis of wave packet solutions for the quantum bouncer: short-term classical and long-term revival behavior
authors: M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 20 pages, 7 separate .ps figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 69, 1084 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307046
abstract: We discuss the time development of Gaussian wave packet solutions of the quantum bouncer' (a quantum mechanical particle subject to a uniform downward force, above an impermeable flat surface). We focus on the evaluation and visualization of the expectation values and uncertainties of position and momentum variables during a single quasi-classical period as well as during the long term collapsed phase and several revivals. This approach complements existing analytic and numerical analyses of this system, as well as being useful for comparison with similar results for the harmonic oscillator and infinite well cases.

id: quant-ph/0307047
title: Lamb Shift of Laser-Dressed Atomic States
authors: U. D. Jentschura, J. Evers, M. Haas, C. H. Keitel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, submitted for publication
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91 (2003) 253601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307047
abstract: We discuss radiative corrections to an atomic two-level system subject to an intense driving laser field. It is shown that the Lamb shift of the laser-dressed states, which are the natural state basis of the combined atom-laser system, cannot be explained in terms of the Lamb shift received by the atomic bare states which is usually observed in spectroscopic experiments. In the final part, we propose an experimental scheme to measure these corrections based on the incoherent resonance fluorescence spectrum of the driven atom.

id: quant-ph/0307048
title: Dynamics of Entanglement in One-Dimensional Spin Systems
authors: L. Amico, A. Osterloh, F. Plastina, R. Fazio, G. M. Palma
comments: 25 pages, 21 figures; revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 69, 022304 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307048
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum correlations in a class of exactly solvable Ising-type models. We analyze in particular the time evolution of initial Bell states created in a fully polarized background and on the ground state. We find that the pairwise entanglement propagates with a velocity proportional to the reduced interaction for all the four Bell states. Singlet-like states are favored during the propagation, in the sense that triplet-like states change their character during the propagation under certain circumstances. Characteristic for the anisotropic models is the instantaneous creation of pairwise entanglement from a fully polarized state; furthermore, the propagation of pairwise entanglement is suppressed in favor of a creation of different types of entanglement. The ``entanglement wave'' evolving from a Bell state on the ground state turns out to be very localized in space-time. Further support to a recently formulated conjecture on entanglement sharing is given.

id: quant-ph/0307049
title: Quantum Cryptography in Practice
authors: Chip Elliott, David Pearson, Gregory Troxel
comments: Preprint of SIGCOMM 2003 paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307049
abstract: BBN, Harvard, and Boston University are building the DARPA Quantum Network, the world's first network that delivers end-to-end network security via high-speed Quantum Key Distribution, and testing that Network against sophisticated eavesdropping attacks. The first network link has been up and steadily operational in our laboratory since December 2002. It provides a Virtual Private Network between private enclaves, with user traffic protected by a weak-coherent implementation of quantum cryptography. This prototype is suitable for deployment in metro-size areas via standard telecom (dark) fiber. In this paper, we introduce quantum cryptography, discuss its relation to modern secure networks, and describe its unusual physical layer, its specialized quantum cryptographic protocol suite (quite interesting in its own right), and our extensions to IPsec to integrate it with quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0307050
title: Suppressing Weak Ising Couplings: Tailored Gates for Quantum Computation
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 6 pages including 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 316, 24 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307050
abstract: I describe the use of techniques based on composite rotations to develop controlled phase gates in which the effects of weak Ising couplings are suppressed. A tailored composite phase gate is described which both suppresses weak couplings and is relatively insensitive to systematic errors in the size of strong couplings.

id: quant-ph/0307051
title: On Discrete Quasiprobability Distributions
authors: C.A. Munoz Villegas, A. Chavez Chavez, S. Chumakov, Yu. Fofanov, A.B. Klimov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307051
abstract: We analyze quasi probability distributions in discrete phase space related to the discrete Heisenberg-Weyl group. In particular, we discuss the relation between the Discrete Wigner and Q- functions.

id: quant-ph/0307052
title: Environment Induced Entanglement in Markovian Dissipative Dynamics
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, M. Piani
comments: 4 pages, LaTex, no figures, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307052
abstract: We show that two, non interacting 2-level systems, immersed in a common bath, can become mutually entangled when evolving according to a Markovian, completely positive reduced dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0307053
title: Relating quantum privacy and quantum coherence: an operational approach
authors: Igor Devetak, Andreas Winter
comments: 4 pages, revtex 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., vol 93, 080501, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307053
abstract: We describe how to achieve optimal entanglement generation and one-way entanglement distillation rates by coherent implementation of a class of secret key generation and secret key distillation protocols, respectively. This short paper is a high-level descrioption of our detailed papers [8] and [10].

id: quant-ph/0307054
title: An Electron-Nucleon Double Spin Solid-State Quantum Computer
authors: Gui Lu Long, Ying-Jun Ma, Hao-Ming Chen
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure
journal: Chinese Journal of Semiconductors, V24, Supplement, 43-46 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307054
abstract: An electron-nucleon double spin(ENDOS) solid-state quantum computer scheme is proposed. In this scheme, the qubits are the nuclear spins of phosphorus ion implanted on the (111) surface of $^{28}$Si substrate. An $^{13}$C atom on a scanning tunnelling probe tip is used both to complete single qubit and two-qubit control-not operation, and single qubit measurement. The scheme does not require interactions between qubits, and can accomplish two qubits without the use of SWAP gate. This scheme is scalable, and can be implemented with present-day or near-future technologies.

id: quant-ph/0307055
title: Parallel Quantum Computing in a Single Ensemble Quantum Computer
authors: Gui Lu Long, Li Xiao
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Physical Review A 69, 052303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307055
abstract: We propose a parallel quantum computing mode for ensemble quantum computer. In this mode, some qubits can be in pure states while other qubits in mixed states. It enables a single ensemble quantum computer to perform $"$single-instruction-multi-data" type of parallel computation. In Grover's algorithm and Shor's algorithm, parallel quantum computing can provide additional speedup. In addition, it also makes a fuller use of qubit resources in an ensemble quantum computer. As a result, some qubits discarded in the preparation of an effective pure state in the Schulman-Varizani, and the Cleve-DiVincenzo algorithms can be re-utilized.

id: quant-ph/0307056
title: Visualizing classical and quantum probability densities for momentum using variations on familiar one-dimensional potentials
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 23 (2002) 165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307056
abstract: After briefly reviewing the definitions of classical probability densities for position, $P_{CL}(x)$, and for momentum, $P_{CL}(p)$, we present several examples of classical mechanical potential systems, mostly variations on such familiar cases as the infinite well and the uniformly accelerated particle for which the classical distributions can be easily derived and visualized. We focus especially on a simple potential which interpolates between the symmetric linear potential, $V(x) = F|x|$, and the infinite well, which can illustrate, in a mathematically straightforward way, how the divergent, $\delta$-function classical probability density for momentum for the infinite well can be easily seen to arise. Such examples can help students understand the quantum mechanical momentum-space wavefunction (and its corresponding probability density) in much the same way that other semi-classical techniques, such as the WKB approximation, can be used to visualize position-space wavefunctions.

id: quant-ph/0307057
title: Uncertainty Relations for Noise and Disturbance in Generalized Quantum Measurements
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 35 pages, revtex
journal: Ann. Phys. 311, 350-416 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307057
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty relation for measurement noise and disturbance states that any position measurement with noise epsilon brings the momentum disturbance not less than hbar/2epsilon. This relation holds only for restricted class of measuring apparatuses. Here, Heisenberg's uncertainty relation is generalized to a relation that holds for all the possible quantum measurements, from which conditions are obtained for measuring apparatuses to satisfy Heisenberg's relation. In particular, every apparatus with the noise and the disturbance statistically independent from the measured object is proven to satisfy Heisenberg's relation. For this purpose, all the possible quantum measurements are characterized by naturally acceptable axioms. Then, a mathematical notion of the distance between probability operator valued measures and observables is introduced and the basic properties are explored. Based on this notion, the measurement noise and disturbance are naturally defined for any quantum measurements in a model independent formulation. Under this formulation, various uncertainty relations are also derived for apparatuses with independent noise, independent disturbance, unbiased noise, and unbiased disturbance as well as noiseless apparatuses and nondisturbing apparatuses. Two models of position measurements are discussed to show that Heisenberg's relation can be violated even by approximately repeatable position measurements.

id: quant-ph/0307058
title: Numerical Analysis of the Capacities for Two-Qubit Unitary Operations
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307058
abstract: We present numerical results on the capacities of two-qubit unitary operations for creating entanglement and increasing the Holevo information of an ensemble. In all cases tested, the maximum values calculated for the capacities based on the Holevo information are close to the capacities based on the entanglement. This indicates that the capacities based on the Holevo information, which are very difficult to calculate, may be estimated from the capacities based upon the entanglement, which are relatively straightforward to calculate.

id: quant-ph/0307059
title: A Physical Realization of the Generalized PT-, C-, and CPT-Symmetries and the Position Operator for Klein-Gordon Fields
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 20 pages, published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 21, 2553-2572 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307059
abstract: Generalized parity (P), time-reversal (T), and charge-conjugation (C)operators were initially definedin the study of the pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We construct a concrete realization of these operators for Klein-Gordon fields and show that in this realization PT and C operators respectively correspond to the ordinary time-reversal and charge-grading operations. Furthermore, we present a complete description of the quantum mechanics of Klein-Gordon fields that is based on the construction of a Hilbert space with a relativistically invariant, positive-definite, and conserved inner product. In particular we offer a natural construction of a position operator and the corresponding localized and coherent states. The restriction of this position operator to the positive-frequency fields coincides with the Newton-Wigner operator. Our approach does not rely on the conventional restriction to positive-frequency fields. Yet it provides a consistent quantum mechanical description of Klein-Gordon fields with a genuine probabilistic interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0307060
title: Entanglement frustration for Gaussian states on symmetric graphs
authors: M.M. Wolf, F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 087903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307060
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of multi-mode Gaussian states, which have some symmetry with respect to the ordering of the modes. We show how the symmetry constraints the entanglement between two modes of the system. In particular, we determine the maximal entanglement of formation that can be achieved in symmetric graphs like chains, 2d and 3d lattices, mean field models and the platonic solids. The maximal entanglement is always attained for the ground state of a particular quadratic Hamiltonian. The latter thus yields the maximal entanglement among all quadratic Hamiltonians having the considered symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0307061
title: Cloning of spin-coherent states
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Marek Kus, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
comments: LateX, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307061
abstract: We consider optimal cloning of the spin coherent states in Hilbert spaces of different dimensionality d. We give explicit form of optimal cloning transformation for spin coherent states in the three-dimensional space, analytical results for the fidelity of the optimal cloning in d=3 and d=4 as well as numerical results for higher dimensions. In the low-dimensional case we construct the corresponding completely positive maps and exhibit their structure with the help of Jamiolkowski isomorphism. This allows us to formulate some conjectures about the form of optimal coherent cloning CP maps in arbitrary dimension.

id: quant-ph/0307062
title: Robust Control of Quantum Information
authors: Marco A. Pravia, Nicolas Boulant, Joseph Emerson, Amro Farid, Evan M. Fortunato, Timothy F. Havel, David G. Cory
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. of Chem. Phys. 119, 19: 9993-10001 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307062
abstract: Errors in the control of quantum systems may be classified as unitary, decoherent and incoherent. Unitary errors are systematic, and result in a density matrix that differs from the desired one by a unitary operation. Decoherent errors correspond to general completely positive superoperators, and can only be corrected using methods such as quantum error correction. Incoherent errors can also be described, on average, by completely positive superoperators, but can nevertheless be corrected by the application of a locally unitary operation that ``refocuses'' them. They are due to reproducible spatial or temporal variations in the system's Hamiltonian, so that information on the variations is encoded in the system's spatiotemporal state and can be used to correct them. In this paper liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is used to demonstrate that such refocusing effects can be built directly into the control fields, where the incoherence arises from spatial inhomogeneities in the quantizing static magnetic field as well as the radio-frequency control fields themselves. Using perturbation theory, it is further shown that the eigenvalue spectrum of the completely positive superoperator exhibits a characteristic spread that contains information on the Hamiltonians' underlying distribution.

id: quant-ph/0307063
title: Quantum mechanical analysis of the equilateral triangle billiard: periodic orbit theory and wave packet revivals
authors: M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 34 pages, 9 embedded .eps figures
journal: Annals of Physics 299, 208 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307063
abstract: Using the fact that the energy eigenstates of the equilateral triangle infinite well (or billiard) are available in closed form, we examine the connections between the energy eigenvalue spectrum and the classical closed paths in this geometry, using both periodic orbit theory and the short-term semi-classical behavior of wave packets. We also discuss wave packet revivals and show that there are exact revivals, for all wave packets, at times given by $T_{rev} = 9 \mu a^2/4\hbar \pi$ where $a$ and $\mu$ are the length of one side and the mass of the point particle respectively. We find additional cases of exact revivals with shorter revival times for zero-momentum wave packets initially located at special symmetry points inside the billiard. Finally, we discuss simple variations on the equilateral ($60^{\circ}-60^{\circ}-60^{\circ}$) triangle, such as the half equilateral ($30^{\circ}-60^{\circ}-90^{\circ}$) triangle and other `foldings', which have related energy spectra and revival structures.

id: quant-ph/0307064
title: Unconditional preparation of entanglement between atoms in cascaded optical cavities
authors: Stephen Clark, Amy Peng, Mile Gu, Scott Parkins
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307064
abstract: We propose a scheme to unconditionally entangle the internal states of atoms trapped in separate high finesse optical cavities. The scheme uses the technique of quantum reservoir engineering in a cascaded cavity QED setting, and for ideal (lossless) coupling between the cavities generates an entangled pure state. Highly entangled states are also shown to be possible for realizable cavity QED parameters and with nonideal coupling.

id: quant-ph/0307065
title: Teleportation in a noisy environment: a quantum trajectories approach
authors: Gabriel G Carlo, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 257903 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307065
abstract: We study the fidelity of quantum teleportation for the situation in which quantum logic gates are used to provide the long distance entanglement required in the protocol, and where the effect of a noisy environment is modeled by means of a generalized amplitude damping channel. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of the quantum trajectories approach, which allows the simulation of open systems with a large number of qubits (up to 24). This shows that the method is suitable for modeling quantum information protocols in realistic environments.

id: quant-ph/0307066
title: N Level System with RWA and Analytical Solutions Revisited
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex File, 18 pages. We corrected some typos and added some sentence in Discussion to make our motivation clearer
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307066
abstract: In this paper we consider a model of an atom with n energy levels interacting with n(n-1)/2 external (laser) fields which is a natural extension of two level system, and assume the rotating wave approximation (RWA) from the beginning. We revisit some construction of analytical solutions (which correspond to Rabi oscillations) of the model in the general case and examine it in detail in the case of three level system.

id: quant-ph/0307067
title: Multipartite entanglement in 2 x 2 x n quantum systems
authors: Akimasa Miyake, Frank Verstraete
comments: 9 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307067
abstract: We classify multipartite entangled states in the 2 x 2 x n (n >= 4) quantum system, for example the 4-qubit system distributed over 3 parties, under local filtering operations. We show that there exist nine essentially different classes of states, and they give rise to a five-graded partially ordered structure, including the celebrated Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W classes of 3 qubits. In particular, all 2 x 2 x n-states can be deterministically prepared from one maximally entangled state, and some applications like entanglement swapping are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0307068
title: More on Exact $\CP$-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Khaled Saaidi
comments: 8 pages, no figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307068
abstract: In this article, we discussed certain properties of non-Hermitian $\CP$-symmetry Hamiltonian, and it is shown that a consistent physical theory of quantum mechanics can be built on a ${\cal C} \CP$-symmetry Hamiltonian. In particular, we show that these theories have unitary time evolution, and conservation probability. Furthermore, transition from quantum mechanics to classical mechanics is investigate and it is found that the Ehrenfest theorem is satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0307069
title: Quantization of the Optical Phase Space S^2 = {phi mod 2pi, I > 0} in Terms of the Group SO(1,2)
authors: H.A. Kastrup
comments: v2: 191 pages (Latex), Ch. 4 (Harm.osc.) expanded, Refs. added, typos corrected; v3: a footnote and Refs. added; v4: footnote and Refs. added, typos corrected
journal: Fortsch.Phys.51:975-1134,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307069
abstract: The problem of quantizing the canonical pair angle and action variables phi and I is almost as old as quantum mechanics itself and since decades a strongly debated but still unresolved issue in quantum optics. The present paper proposes a new approach to the problem, namely quantization in terms of the group SO(1,2): The crucial point is that the phase space S^2 = {phi mod 2pi, I>0} has the global structure S^1 x R^+ (a simple cone) and cannot be quantized in the conventional manner. As the group SO(1,2) acts appropriately on that space its unitary representations of the positive discrete series provide the correct quantum theoretical framework. The space S^2 has the conic structure of an orbifold R^2/Z_2. That structure is closely related to the center Z_2 of the symplectic group Sp(2,R). The basic variables on S^2 are the functions h_0 = I, h_1 = I cosphi and h_2 = -I sinphi, the Poisson brackets of which obey the Lie algebra so(1,2). In the quantum theory they are represented by self-adjoint generators K_0, K_1 and K_2 of a unitary representation. A crucial prediction is that the classical Pythagorean relation h_1^2+h_2^2 = h_0^2 may be violated in the quantum theory. For each representation one can define 3 different types of coherent states the complex phases of which can be "measured" by means of K_1 and K_2 alone without introducing any new phase operators! The SO(1,2) structure of optical squeezing and interference properties as well as that of the harmonic oscillator are analyzed in detail. The new coherent states can be used for the introduction of (Husimi type) Q and (Sudarshan-Glauber type) P representations of the density operator. The 3 operators K_0, K_1 and K_2 are fundamental in the sense that one can construct (composite) position and momentum operators out of them!

id: quant-ph/0307070
title: Wave packet construction in two-dimensional quantum billiards: Blueprints for the square, equilateral triangle, and circular cases
authors: M. A. Doncheski, S. Heppelmann, R. W. Robinett, D. C. Tussey
comments: 46 pages, 6 embedded .eps figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 71, 541 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307070
abstract: We present quasi-analytical and numerical calculations of Gaussian wave packet solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for two-dimensional infinite well and quantum billiard problems with equilateral triangle, square, and circular footprints. These cases correspond to N=3, N=4, and $N \to \infty$ regular polygonal billiards and infinite wells, respectively. In each case the energy eigenvalues and wavefunctions are given in terms of familiar special functions. For the first two systems, we obtain closed form expressions for the expansion coefficients for localized Gaussian wavepackets in terms of the eigenstates of the particular geometry. For the circular case, we discuss numerical approaches. We use these results to discuss the short-time, quasi-classical evolution in these geometries and the structure of wave packet revivals. We also show how related half-well problems can be easily solved in each of the three cases.

id: quant-ph/0307071
title: On Statistical Query Sampling and NMR Quantum Computing
authors: Avrim Blum, Ke Yang
comments: 17 pages, no figures. Appeared in 18th Aunnual IEEE Conference of Computational Complexity (CCC 2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307071
abstract: We introduce a ``Statistical Query Sampling'' model, in which the goal of an algorithm is to produce an element in a hidden set $Ssubseteqbit^n$ with reasonable probability. The algorithm gains information about $S$ through oracle calls (statistical queries), where the algorithm submits a query function $g(cdot)$ and receives an approximation to $Pr_{x in S}[g(x)=1]$. We show how this model is related to NMR quantum computing, in which only statistical properties of an ensemble of quantum systems can be measured, and in particular to the question of whether one can translate standard quantum algorithms to the NMR setting without putting all of their classical post-processing into the quantum system. Using Fourier analysis techniques developed in the related context of {em statistical query learning}, we prove a number of lower bounds (both information-theoretic and cryptographic) on the ability of algorithms to produces an $xin S$, even when the set $S$ is fairly simple. These lower bounds point out a difficulty in efficiently applying NMR quantum computing to algorithms such as Shor's and Simon's algorithm that involve significant classical post-processing. We also explicitly relate the notion of statistical query sampling to that of statistical query learning. An extended abstract appeared in the 18th Aunnual IEEE Conference of Computational Complexity (CCC 2003), 2003. Keywords: statistical query, NMR quantum computing, lower bound

id: quant-ph/0307072
title: Non-Transitive Quantum Games
authors: Michael Stohler, Ephraim Fischbach
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307072
abstract: Non-transitivity can arise in games with three or more strategies $A,B,C$, when $A$ beats $B$, $B$ beats $C$, and $C$ beats $A$, ($A>B>C>A$). An example is the children's game \textquotedblleft rock, scissors, paper" ($R,S,P$) where $R>S>P>R$. We discuss the conditions under which quantum versions of $R,S,P$ retain the non-transitive characteristics of the corresponding classical game. Some physical implications of non-transitivity in quantum game theory are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0307073
title: Symplectic invariants, entropic measures and correlations of Gaussian states
authors: Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati, Silvio De Siena
comments: 6 pages, no figures, revised version, sections and references added, to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B 37, L21 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307073
abstract: We present a derivation of the Von Neumann entropy and mutual information of arbitrary two--mode Gaussian states, based on the explicit determination of the symplectic eigenvalues of a generic covariance matrix. The key role of the symplectic invariants in such a determination is pointed out. We show that the Von Neumann entropy depends on two symplectic invariants, while the purity (or the linear entropy) is determined by only one invariant, so that the two quantities provide two different hierarchies of mixed Gaussian states. A comparison between mutual information and entanglement of formation for symmetric states is considered, remarking the crucial role of the symplectic eigenvalues in qualifying and quantifying the correlations present in a generic state.

id: quant-ph/0307074
title: Planar lightwave circuits for quantum cryptographic systems
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu, Takaaki Hatanaka, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: Submitted to Electronics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307074
abstract: We propose a quantum cryptographic system based on a planar lightwave circuit (PLC) and report on optical interference experiments using PLC-based unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometers (MZIs). The interferometers exhibited high-visibility (>0.98) interference even when the polarisation in the optical fibre connecting the two MZIs was randomly modulated. The results demonstrate that a PLC-based setup is suitable for achieving a polarisation-insensitive phase-coding cryptographic system.

id: quant-ph/0307075
title: Quantum Zeno Effect for Exponentially Decaying Systems
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Akira Shimizu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 030401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307075
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect -- suppression of decay by frequent measurements -- was believed to occur only when the response of the detector is so quick that the initial tiny deviation from the exponential decay law is detectable. However, we show that it can occur even for exactly exponentially decaying systems, for which this condition is never satisfied, by considering a realistic case where the detector has a finite energy band of detection. The conventional theories correspond to the limit of an infinite bandwidth. This implies that the Zeno effect occurs more widely than expected so far.

id: quant-ph/0307076
title: Quantum Symmetrically-Private Information Retrieval
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 8 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307076
abstract: Private information retrieval systems (PIRs) allow a user to extract an item from a database that is replicated over k>=1 servers, while satisfying various privacy constraints. We exhibit quantum k-server symmetrically-private information retrieval systems (QSPIRs) that use sublinear communication, do not use shared randomness among the servers, and preserve privacy against honest users and dishonest servers. Classically, SPIRs without shared randomness do not exist at all.

id: quant-ph/0307077
title: A New Interpretation for Orthofermions
authors: Keivan Aghababaei Samani
comments: To appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307077
abstract: In this article we introduce a simple physical model which realizes the algebra of orthofermions. The model is constructed from a cylinder which can be filled with some balls. The creation and annihilation operators of orthofermions are related to the creation and annihilation operators of balls in certain positions in the cylinder. Relationship between this model and topological symmetries in quantum mechanics is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0307078
title: The interpretation of non-Markovian stochastic Schr?dinger equations as a hidden-variable theory
authors: Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062104 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307078
abstract: Do diffusive non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations (SSEs) for open quantum systems have a physical interpretation? In a recent paper [Phys. Rev. A 66, 012108 (2002)] we investigated this question using the orthodox interpretation of quantum mechanics. We found that the solution of a non-Markovian SSE represents the state the system would be in at that time if a measurement was performed on the environment at that time, and yielded a particular result. However, the linking of solutions at different times to make a trajectory is, we concluded, a fiction. In this paper we investigate this question using the modal (hidden variable) interpretation of quantum mechanics. We find that the noise function $z(t)$ appearing in the non-Markovian SSE can be interpreted as a hidden variable for the environment. That is, some chosen property (beable) of the environment has a definite value $z(t)$ even in the absence of measurement on the environment. The non-Markovian SSE gives the evolution of the state of the system ``conditioned'' on this environment hidden variable. We present the theory for diffusive non-Markovian SSEs that have as their Markovian limit SSEs corresponding to homodyne and heterodyne detection, as well as one which has no Markovian limit.

id: quant-ph/0307079
title: Wave packet revivals and the energy eigenvalue spectrum of the quantum pendulum
authors: M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 27 pages, 8 embedded .eps figures; to appear, Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307079
abstract: The rigid pendulum, both as a classical and as a quantum problem, is an interesting system as it has the exactly soluble harmonic oscillator and the rigid rotor systems as limiting cases in the low- and high-energy limits respectively. The energy variation of the classical periodicity ($\tau$) is also dramatic, having the special limiting case of $\tau \to \infty$ at the 'top' of the classical motion (i.e. the separatrix.) We study the time-dependence of the quantum pendulum problem, focusing on the behavior of both the (approximate) classical periodicity and especially the quantum revival and superrevival times, as encoded in the energy eigenvalue spectrum of the system. We provide approximate expressions for the energy eigenvalues in both the small and large quantum number limits, up to 4th order in perturbation theory, comparing these to existing handbook expansions for the characteristic values of the related Mathieu equation, obtained by other methods. We then use these approximations to probe the classical periodicity, as well as to extract information on the quantum revival and superrevival times. We find that while both the classical and quantum periodicities increase monotonically as one approaches the 'top' in energy, from either above or below, the revival times decrease from their low- and high-energy values until very near the separatrix where they increase to a large, but finite value.

id: quant-ph/0307080
title: Kraus representation of destruction of states for one qudit
authors: P. Caban, K. A. Smolinski, Z. Walczak
comments: 2 pp
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 034308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307080
abstract: Quantum operations arise naturally in many fields of quantum information theory and quantum computing. One of the simplest example of quantum operation is the von Neumann-Lueders measurement. Destruction of states in quantum mechanics can be treated as a supplement to the von Neumann-Lueders measurement [P. Caban, J. Rembielinski, K. A. Smolinski and Z. Walczak, J. Phys. A 35, 3265 (2002)]. We show that destruction of states in one-qudit system is a quantum operation by finding its Kraus representation.

id: quant-ph/0307081
title: Numerical analysis of a spontaneous collapse model for a two-level system
authors: A. Bassi, E. Ippoliti
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX. Significative improvements made. To appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 012105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307081
abstract: We study a spontaneous collapse model for a two-level (spin) system, in which the Hamiltonian and the stochastic terms do not commute. The numerical solution of the equations of motions allows to give precise estimates on the regime at which the collapse of the state vector occurs, the reduction and delocalization times, and the reduction probabilities; it also allows to quantify the effect that an Hamiltonian which does not commute with the reducing terms has on the collapse mechanism. We also give a clear picture of the transition from the "microscopic" regime (when the noise terms are weak and the Hamiltonian prevents the state vector to collapse) to the "macroscopic" regime (when the noise terms are dominant and the collapse becomes effective for very long times). Finally, we clarify the distinction between decoherence and collapse.

id: quant-ph/0307082
title: The Counterfactual Meaning of the ABL Rule
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Published version, one reference added
journal: Proc. of QTRF-2 meeting (Vaxjo University Press, Vaxjo, Sweden, 2004), pp. 403-412
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307082
abstract: The Aharonov-Bergmann-Lebowitz rule assigns probabilities to quantum measurement results at time t on the condition that the system is prepared in a given way at t_1 < t and found in a given state at t_2 > t. The question whether the rule can also be applied counterfactually to the case where no measurement is performed at the intermediate time t has recently been the subject of controversy. I argue that the counterfactual meaning may be understood in terms of the true value of an observable at t. Such a value cannot be empirically determined for, by stipulation, the measurement that would yield it is not performed. Nevertheless, it may or may not be well-defined depending on one's proposed interpretation of quantum mechanics. Various examples are discussed illustrating what can be asserted at the intermediate time without running into contradictions.

id: quant-ph/0307083
title: Spontaneous-emission suppression via multiphoton quantum interference
authors: J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, latest version with minor changes
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 37, 2771-2796 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307083
abstract: The spontaneous emission is investigated for an effective atomic two-level system in an intense coherent field with frequency lower than the vacuum-induced decay width. As this additional low-frequency field is assumed to be intense, multiphoton processes may be induced, which can be seen as alternative transition pathways in addition to the simple spontaneous decay. The interplay of the various interfering transition pathways influences the decay dynamics of the two-level system and may be used to slow down the spontaneous decay considerably. We derive from first principles an expression for the Hamiltonian including up to three-photon processes. This Hamiltonian is then applied to a quantum mechanical simulation of the decay dynamics of the two-level system. Finally, we discuss numerical results of this simulation based on a rubidium atom and show that the spontaneous emission in this system may be suppressed substantially.

id: quant-ph/0307084
title: Quantum states of a generalized time-dependent inverted harmonic oscillator
authors: I. A. Pedrosa, I. Guedes
comments: 7 pages, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307084
abstract: We discuss the extension of the Lewis and Riesenfeld method of solving the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation to cases where the invariant has continuous eigenvalues and apply it to the case of a generalized time-dependent inverted harmonic oscillator. As a special case, we consider a generalized inverted oscillator with constant frequency and exponentially increasing mass.

id: quant-ph/0307085
title: Perfect initialization of a quantum computer of neutral atoms in an optical lattice of large lattice constant
authors: J. Vala, A.V. Thapliyal, S. Myrgren, U. Vazirani, D.S. Weiss, K.B. Whaley
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307085
abstract: We propose a scheme for the initialization of a quantum computer based on neutral atoms trapped in an optical lattice with large lattice constant. Our focus is the development of a compacting scheme to prepare a perfect optical lattice of simple orthorhombic structure with unit occupancy. Compacting is accomplished by sequential application of two types of operations: a flip operator that changes the internal state of the atoms, and a shift operator that moves them along the lattice principal axis. We propose physical mechanisms for realization of these operations and we study the effects of motional heating of the atoms. We carry out an analysis of the complexity of the compacting scheme and show that it scales linearly with the number of lattice sites per row of the lattice, thus showing good scaling behavior with the size of the quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0307086
title: How well can you know the edge of a quantum pyramid?
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Ajay Gopinathan, Yeong Cherng Liang, Leong Chuan Kwek, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 3 pages, 1 color figure; this is a brief announcement of a recent result, about which a more detailed report is being prepared
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307086
abstract: The methods of quantum cryptography enable one to have perfectly secure communication lines, whereby the laws of quantum physics protect the privacy of the data exchanged. Each quantum-cryptography scheme has its own security criteria that need to be met in a practical implementation. We find, however, that the generally accepted criteria are flawed for a whole class of such schemes.

id: quant-ph/0307087
title: Entanglement and Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking in Quantum Spin Models
authors: Olav F. Syljuasen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 060301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307087
abstract: It is shown that spontaneous symmetry breaking does not modify the ground-state entanglement of two spins, as defined by the concurrence, in the XXZ- and the transverse field Ising-chain. Correlation function inequalities, valid in any dimensions for these models, are presented outlining the regimes where entanglement is unaffected by spontaneous symmetry breaking.

id: quant-ph/0307088
title: Sympathetic cooling of $^9Be^+$ and $^{24}Mg^+$ for quantum logic
authors: M. D. Barrett, B. DeMarco, T. Schaetz, D. Leibfried, J. Britton, J. Chiaverini, W. M. Itano, B. Jelenkovic, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, T. Rosenband, D. J. Wineland
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307088
abstract: We demonstrate the cooling of a two species ion crystal consisting of one $^9Be^+$ and one $^{24}Mg^+$ ion. Since the respective cooling transitions of these two species are separated by more than 30 nm, laser manipulation of one ion has negligible effect on the other even when the ions are not individually addressed. As such this is a useful system for re-initializing the motional state in an ion trap quantum computer without affecting the qubit information. Additionally, we have found that the mass difference between ions enables a novel method for detecting and subsequently eliminating the effects of radio frequency (RF) micro-motion.

id: quant-ph/0307089
title: A consistent quantum model for continuous photodetection processes
authors: M. C. de Oliveira, S. S. Mizrahi, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5, S271 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307089
abstract: We are modifying some aspects of the continuous photodetection theory, proposed by Srinivas and Davies [Optica Acta 28, 981 (1981)], which describes the non-unitary evolution of a quantum field state subjected to a continuous photocount measurement. In order to remedy inconsistencies that appear in their approach, we redefine the `annihilation' and `creation' operators that enter in the photocount superoperators. We show that this new approach not only still satisfies all the requirements for a consistent photocount theory according to Srinivas and Davies precepts, but also avoids some weird result appearing when previous definitions are used.

id: quant-ph/0307090
title: Differences between the trajectory representation and Copenhagen regarding the past and present in quantum theory
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 4 pages REVTEX4. No figures. Submitted to "Proceedings for the Eighth International Wigner Symposium" (WYGSYM 8), 27-30 May 2003, CUNY, NY, NY
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307090
abstract: We examine certain pasts and presents in the classically forbidden region. We show that for a given past the trajectory representation does not permit some presents while the Copenhagen predicts a finite probability for these presents to exist. This suggests another gedanken experiment to invalidate either Copenhagen or the trajectory representation.

id: quant-ph/0307091
title: Coherent Communication of Classical Messages
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 5 pages, revtex, v2: updated references, v3: changed title, fixed error in eq (10)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 097902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307091
abstract: We define "coherent communication" in terms of a simple primitive, show it is equivalent to the ability to send a classical message with a unitary or isometric operation, and use it to relate other resources in quantum information theory. Using coherent communication, we are able to generalize super-dense coding to prepare arbitrary quantum states instead of only classical messages. We also derive single-letter formulae for the classical and quantum capacities of a bipartite unitary gate assisted by an arbitrary fixed amount of entanglement per use.

id: quant-ph/0307092
title: Comment on Papers by Gill and Gill, Weihs, Zeilinger and Zukowski
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307092
abstract: We show that the proofs of Gill as well as of Gill, Weihs, Zeilinger and Zukowski contain serious mathematical and physical deficiencies which render them invalid.

id: quant-ph/0307093
title: Two-Level Atom in the Resonant Field - Critical Remarks
authors: N.V Brazovskaja, V.Ye Brazovsky
comments: 7 pages, Russion version published in "Horizons of education" See this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307093
abstract: We review the validity of the several representations of the two-level approximation

id: quant-ph/0307094
title: Experimental limit on Spontaneous Parametric Up Conversion
authors: G. Brida, M.Genovese, M. Gramegna, C. Novero
comments: 
journal: Journ. Of Mod. Opt. 50 (2003) 1757
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307094
abstract: We present a first experimental test of the existence of Spontaneus Parametric Up Conversion, predicted by a specific local realistic model based on Wigner function formalism. The measurement has been made using a ccd camera on the emission of a LiIO3 crystal pumped by a 351 nm and/or a 789 (1064) nm lasers. We obtain an upper limit of 160 times on the ratio between intensity of Spontaneus Parametric Up Conversion and Spontaneous Parametric Down conversion.

id: quant-ph/0307095
title: Quantum authentication scheme based on algebraic coding
authors: Rex A. C. Medeiros, Francisco M. de Assis, Bernardo L. Jior, Arcio F. Lima
comments: No figures, Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307095
abstract: This paper presents a simple, but efficient class of non-interactive protocols for quantum authentication of $m$-length clas sical messages. The message is encoded using a classical linear algebraic code $C[n,m,t]$. We assume that Alice and Bob share a classical secret key, $x_{AB}$, of $n$ bits. Alice creates $n$ qubits based on the code word and the key, that indicates the bases used to create each qubit. The quantum states are sent to Bob through a noiseless quantum channel. We calculate the failure probability of the protocol considering several types of attacks.

id: quant-ph/0307096
title: Preparation and control of a cavity-field state through atom-driven field interaction: towards long-lived mesoscopic states
authors: C. J. Villas-Boas, F. R. de Paula, R. M. Serra, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 053808 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307096
abstract: The preparation of mesoscopic states of the radiation and matter fields through atom-field interactions has been achieved in recent years and employed for a range of striking applications in quantum optics. Here we present a technique for the preparation and control of a cavity mode which, besides interacting with a two-level atom, is simultaneously submitted to linear and parametric amplification processes. The role of the amplification-controlling fields in the achievement of real mesoscopic states, is to produce highly-squeezed field states and, consequently, to increase both: i) the distance in phase space between the components of the prepared superpositions and ii) the mean photon number of such superpositions. When submitting the squeezed superposition states to the action of similarly squeezed reservoirs, we demonstrate that under specific conditions the decoherence time of the states becomes independent of both the distance in phase space between their components and their mean photon number. An explanation is presented to support this remarkable result, together with a discussion on the experimental implementation of our proposal. We also show how to produce number states with fidelities higher than those derived as circular states.

id: quant-ph/0307097
title: New scheme for generating GHZ like state of $n$ photons
authors: Yoav Sagi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042320 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307097
abstract: In this paper we propose a new scheme for creating a three photons GHZ state using only linear optics elements and single photon detectors. We furthermore generalize the scheme for producing any GHZ-like state of $n$ photons. The input state of the scheme consists of a non-entangled state of $n$ photons. Experimental aspects regarding the implementation of the scheme are presented. Finally, the role of such schemes in quantum information processing with photons is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0307098
title: Broadband channel capacities
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Peter W. Shor
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062323 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307098
abstract: We study the communication capacities of bosonic broadband channels in the presence of different sources of noise. In particular we analyze lossy channels in presence of white noise and thermal bath. In this context, we provide a numerical solution for the entanglement assisted capacity and upper and lower bounds for the classical and quantum capacities.

id: quant-ph/0307099
title: Time evolution, cyclic solutions and geometric phases for general spin in an arbitrarily varying magnetic field
authors: Qiong-Gui Lin
comments: revtex4, 8 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 36 (2003) 6799-6806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307099
abstract: A neutral particle with general spin and magnetic moment moving in an arbitrarily varying magnetic field is studied. The time evolution operator for the Schr\"odinger equation can be obtained if one can find a unit vector that satisfies the equation obeyed by the mean of the spin operator. There exist at least $2s+1$ cyclic solutions in any time interval. Some particular time interval may exist in which all solutions are cyclic. The nonadiabatic geometric phase for cyclic solutions generally contains extra terms in addition to the familiar one that is proportional to the solid angle subtended by the closed trace of the spin vector.

id: quant-ph/0307100
title: Remote preparation of quantum states
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Patrick Hayden, Debbie W. Leung, Peter W. Shor, Andreas Winter
comments: 21 pages plus 2 figures (eps), revtex4. v2 corrects some errors and adds obliviousness discussion. v3 has section VI C deleted and various minor oversights corrected
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 51, no. 1, pp 56-74, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307100
abstract: Remote state preparation is the variant of quantum state teleportation in which the sender knows the quantum state to be communicated. The original paper introducing teleportation established minimal requirements for classical communication and entanglement but the corresponding limits for remote state preparation have remained unknown until now: previous work has shown, however, that it not only requires less classical communication but also gives rise to a trade-off between these two resources in the appropriate setting. We discuss this problem from first principles, including the various choices one may follow in the definitions of the actual resources. Our main result is a general method of remote state preparation for arbitrary states of many qubits, at a cost of 1 bit of classical communication and 1 bit of entanglement per qubit sent. In this "universal" formulation, these ebit and cbit requirements are shown to be simultaneously optimal by exhibiting a dichotomy. Our protocol then yields the exact trade-off curve for arbitrary ensembles of pure states and pure entangled states (including the case of incomplete knowledge of the ensemble probabilities), based on the recently established quantum-classical trade-off for quantum data compression. The paper includes an extensive discussion of our results, including the impact of the choice of model on the resources, the topic of obliviousness, and an application to private quantum channels and quantum data hiding.

id: quant-ph/0307101
title: Quantum State Engineering with the rf-SQUID: A Brief Introduction
authors: Christopher Altman
comments: NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Quantum Chaos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307101
abstract: Quantum computers take advantage of the superpositional logic of quantum mechanics to allow for dramatic increases in computational efficiency. rf-SQUIDs show potential for quantum computing applications by forming the qubit component of a quantum computer, through simply treating the direction of current - clockwise or counterclockwise - as the value of the bit. rf-SQUIDs present a major advantage over atomic-scale qubit systems - they are sensitive to parameters that can be engineered. Flux qubits are linked through controlled inductive coupling: the magnetic field of each junction affects the others. The strength of this coupling can be 'tuned,' allowing for refined control over the behaviour of the system. rf-SQUIDs can also be mass produced on-chip, making large-scale production feasible.

id: quant-ph/0307102
title: Quantum integrability and Bethe ansatz solution for interacting matter-radiation systems
authors: Anjan Kundu
comments: Latex, 7 pages, 1 figure. Final version to be published in J Phys A (as Letter)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307102
abstract: A unified integrable system, generating a new series of interacting matter-radiation models with interatomic coupling and different atomic frequencies, is constructed and exactly solved through algebraic Bethe ansatz. Novel features in Rabi oscillation and vacuum Rabi splitting are shown on the example of an integrable two-atom Buck-Sukumar model with resolution of some important controversies in the Bethe ansatz solution including its possible degeneracy for such models.

id: quant-ph/0307103
title: Les ordinateurs quantiques affrontent le chaos
authors: Bertrand Georgeot, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: in French, 7 pages, 4 figures, revue a paraitre dans Images de la Physique, recherches faites a Quantware MIPS Center this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307103
abstract: Quantum computers facing chaos. Quantum parallelism allows to perform computation in a radically new manner. A quantum computer based on these new principles may resolve certain problems exponentially faster than a classical computer. We discuss how quantum computers can simulate complex dynamics, in particularly the dynamics of chaotic systems, where the errors of classical computation grow exponentially fast. ----- Le parallelisme autorise par la mecanique quantique permet d'effectuer des calculs d'une maniere radicalement nouvelle. Un ordinateur quantique fonde sur ces principes pourrait resoudre certains problemes exponentiellement plus vite qu'un ordinateur classique. Nous discutons comment un ordinateur quantique realiste peut simuler une dynamique complexe, en particulier les systemes chaotiques ou les fautes de l'ordinateur classique croissent exponentiellement vite.

id: quant-ph/0307104
title: Randomizing quantum states: Constructions and applications
authors: Patrick Hayden, Debbie Leung, Peter W. Shor, Andreas Winter
comments: 20 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 250(2):371-391, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307104
abstract: The construction of a perfectly secure private quantum channel in dimension d is known to require 2 log d shared random key bits between the sender and receiver. We show that if only near-perfect security is required, the size of the key can be reduced by a factor of two. More specifically, we show that there exists a set of roughly d log d unitary operators whose average effect on every input pure state is almost perfectly randomizing, as compared to the d^2 operators required to randomize perfectly. Aside from the private quantum channel, variations of this construction can be applied to many other tasks in quantum information processing. We show, for instance, that it can be used to construct LOCC data hiding schemes for bits and qubits that are much more efficient than any others known, allowing roughly log d qubits to be hidden in 2 log d qubits. The method can also be used to exhibit the existence of quantum states with locked classical correlations, an arbitrarily large amplification of the correlation being accomplished by sending a negligibly small classical key. Our construction also provides the basic building block for a method of remotely preparing arbitrary d-dimensional pure quantum states using approximately log d bits of communication and log d ebits of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0307105
title: Quantum teleportation with a quantum dot single photon source
authors: David Fattal, Eleni Diamanti, Kyo Inoue, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307105
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a quantum teleportation protocol with a semiconductor single photon source. Two qubits, a target and an ancilla, each defined by a single photon occupying two optical modes (dual-rail qubit), were generated independently by the single photon source. Upon measurement of two modes from different qubits and postselection, the state of the two remaining modes was found to reproduce the state of the target qubit. In particular, the coherence between the target qubit modes was transferred to the output modes to a large extent. The observed fidelity is 80 %, a figure which can be explained quantitatively by the residual distinguishability between consecutive photons from the source. An improved version of this teleportation scheme using more ancillas is the building block of the recent KLM proposal for efficient linear-optics quantum computation \cite{ref:klm}.

id: quant-ph/0307106
title: Distillation of continuous-variable entanglement with optical means
authors: J. Eisert, D.E. Browne, S. Scheel, M.B. Plenio
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Annals of Physics (NY) 311, 431 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307106
abstract: We present an event-ready procedure that is capable of distilling Gaussian two-mode entangled states from a supply of weakly entangled states that have become mixed in a decoherence process. This procedure relies on passive optical elements and photon detectors distinguishing the presence and the absence of photons, but does not make use of photon counters. We identify fixed points of the iteration map, and discuss in detail its convergence properties. Necessary and sufficient criteria for the convergence to two-mode Gaussian states are presented. On the basis of various examples we discuss the performance of the procedure as far as the increase of the degree of entanglement and two-mode squeezing is concerned. Finally, we consider imperfect operations and outline the robustness of the scheme under non-unit detection efficiencies of the detectors. This analysis implies that the proposed protocol can be implemented with currently available technology and detector efficiencies.

id: quant-ph/0307107
title: Wigner rotations, Bell states, and Lorentz invariance of entanglement and von Neumann entropy
authors: Chopin Soo, Cyrus C. Y. Lin
comments: 13 pages, ReVTeX
journal: Int. J. Quantum Info. 2 (2004) 183-200
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307107
abstract: We compute, for massive particles, the explicit Wigner rotations of one-particle states for arbitrary Lorentz transformations; and the explicit Hermitian generators of the infinite-dimensional unitary representation. For a pair of spin 1/2 particles, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bell entangled states and their behaviour under the Lorentz group are analysed in the context of quantum field theory. Group theoretical considerations suggest a convenient definition of the Bell states which is slightly different from the conventional assignment. The behaviour of Bell states under arbitrary Lorentz transformations can then be described succinctly. Reduced density matrices applicable to identical particles are defined through Yang's prescription. The von Neumann entropy of each of the reduced density matrix is Lorentz invariant; and its relevance as a measure of entanglement is discussed, and illustrated with an explicit example. A regularization of the entropy in terms of generalized zeta functions is also suggested.

id: quant-ph/0307108
title: Renormalisation and fixed points in Hilbert Space
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 4 pages, 1 table
journal: J.Phys.A37:4851-4860,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307108
abstract: The energies of low-lying bound states of a microscopic quantum many-body system of particles can be worked out in a reduced Hilbert space. We present here and test a specific non-perturbative truncation procedure. We also show that real exceptional points which may be present in the spectrum can be identified as fixed points of coupling constants in the truncation procedure.

id: quant-ph/0307109
title: Amplitude and phase of time dependent Hamiltonian systems under the minimum uncertainty condition
authors: G. Landolfi, G. Ruggeri, G. Soliani
comments: 15 pages. Title changed (formerly it was "Remarks on the minimum uncertainty states of generalized oscillators"). Comments and references concerning possible applications to the theory of squeezing of inflationary universe as well as few minor formulae have been removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307109
abstract: We investigate dynamical systems with time-dependent mass and frequency, with particular attention on models attaining the minimum value of uncertainty formula. A criterium of minimum uncertainty is presented and illustrated by means of explicit and exactly solved examples. The role of the Bogolubov coefficients, in general and in the context of minimum uncertainty case, is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0307110
title: Entanglement and quantum fluctuations
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307110
abstract: We discuss maximum entangled states of quantum systems in terms of quantum fluctuations of all essential measurements responsible for manifestation of entanglement. Namely, we consider maximum entanglement as a property of states, for which quantum fluctuations come to their extreme.

id: quant-ph/0307111
title: Quantum Circuit Identities
authors: Chris Lomont
comments: 6 pages. Presented is a computational effort to list all identities on one qubit to assist computer simplification of quantum circuits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307111
abstract: There are quantum circuit identities that simplify quantum circuits, reducing the effort needed physically to implement them. This paper constructs all identities made from 3 or fewer operations taken from a common set of one qubit operations, and explains how they may be used to simplify the cost of constructing quantum circuit identities.

id: quant-ph/0307112
title: Information rate of waveguide
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Revised version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307112
abstract: We calculate the communication capacity of a broadband electromagnetic waveguide as a function of its spatial dimensions and input power. We analyze the two cases in which either all the available modes or only a single directional mode are employed. The results are compared with those for the free space bosonic channel.

id: quant-ph/0307113
title: Do quantum states evolve? Apropos of Marchildon's remarks
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: To appear in Foundations of Physics; 22 pages, LaTeX
journal: Found Phys 34 (1), 75-97 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307113
abstract: Marchildon's (favorable) assessment (quant-ph/0303170, to appear in Found. Phys.) of the Pondicherry interpretation of quantum mechanics raises several issues, which are addressed. Proceeding from the assumption that quantum mechanics is fundamentally a probability algorithm, this interpretation determines the nature of a world that is irreducibly described by this probability algorithm. Such a world features an objective fuzziness, which implies that its spatiotemporal differentiation does not "go all the way down". This result is inconsistent with the existence of an evolving instantaneous state, quantum or otherwise.

id: quant-ph/0307114
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlation in gravitational field
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, several minor revisions are made
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 032113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307114
abstract: For quantum communication in a gravitational field, the properties of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation are studied within the framework of general relativity. Acceleration and gravity are shown to deteriorate the perfect anti-correlation of an EPR pair of spins in the same direction, and apparently decrease the degree of the violation of Bell's inequality. To maintain the perfect EPR correlation and the maximal violation of Bell's inequality, observers must measure the spins in appropriately chosen different directions. Which directions are appropriate depends on the velocity of the particles, the curvature of the spacetime, and the positions of the observers. Near the event horizon of a black hole, the appropriate directions depend so sensitively on the positions of the observers that even a very small uncertainty in the identification of the observers' positions leads to a fatal error in quantum communication, unless the observers fall into the black hole together with the particles.

id: quant-ph/0307115
title: Entanglement distillation for W class states
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Ming Yang
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physica A Volume: 337, Issue: 1-2, June 1, 2004, pp. 141-148
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307115
abstract: In this paper, we first propose a general entanglement distillation protocol for three-particle W class state, which can concentrate the state (non-maximally entangled W state). The general protocol is mainly based on the unitary transformations on the auxiliary particles and the entangled particles, and a feasible physical scheme is suggested based on the cavity QED techniques. The protocol and scheme can be extended to the entanglement concentration of N-particle case.

id: quant-ph/0307116
title: Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation for Quantum Computation
authors: M. Cemal Yalabik
comments: 4 pages 1 figure, Latex. Changes in second version: Two important references (numbered 2 and 10) have been added, and associated discussion has been modified. Explanatory notes intended for a more general audience are available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307116
abstract: Utilization of a quantum system whose time-development is described by the nonlinear Schrodinger equation in the transformation of qubits would make it possible to construct quantum algorithms which would be useful in a large class of problems. An example of such a system for implementing the logical NOR operation is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0307117
title: An Extra Dimensional Approach of Entanglement
authors: A.Dietrich, W. Been
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307117
abstract: Motivated by the apparent lack of a workable hypothesis we developed a model to describe phenomena such as entanglement and the EPR-paradox. In the model we propose the existence of extra hidden dimensions. Through these dimensions it will be possible for particles, which originate from one source, to remain connected. This connection results in an instantaneous reaction of one particle when the other particle is manipulated. We imagine entanglement in such a model. The results of the experiments which have been performed on this item do not contradict with the existence of the extra dimension(s). In addition, the model opens the possibility to unify the theory of quantum mechanics, gravitation and the general theory of relativity.

id: quant-ph/0307118
title: Atomic motion in tilted optical lattices
authors: Quentin Thommen, Jean Claude Garreau, Veronique Zehnle
comments: 6 pages, 2 figs, submitted to EPJD, Springer Verlag style
journal: J. Opt. B Quant. Semiclass. Opt. 6, 301-308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307118
abstract: This paper presents a formalism describing the dynamics of a quantum particle in a one-dimensional, time-dependent, tilted lattice. The formalism uses the Wannier-Stark states, which are localized in each site of the lattice, and provides a simple framework allowing fully-analytical developments. Analytic solutions describing the particle motion are explicit derived, and the resulting dynamics is studied.

id: quant-ph/0307119
title: Ray chaos in optical cavities based upon standard laser mirrors
authors: A. Aiello, M. P. van Exter, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307119
abstract: We present a composite optical cavity made of standard laser mirrors; the cavity consists of a suitable combination of stable and unstable cavities. In spite of its very open nature the composite cavity shows ray chaos, which may be either soft or hard, depending on the cavity configuration. This opens a new, convenient route for experimental studies of the quantum aspects of a chaotic wave field.

id: quant-ph/0307120
title: Is Entanglement Monogamous?
authors: Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 10 pages; contribution to Charles Bennett's 60th Birthday Symposium
journal: IBM Journal of Research and Development Vol.48, No.1, pp. 71-- 78 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307120
abstract: In this article I discuss Charlie's Bennett's influence in quantum information theory and our answers to the question whether quantum entanglement is `monogamous'.

id: quant-ph/0307121
title: Discovering Quantum Mechanics Once Again
authors: Ian Duck
comments: 15 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307121
abstract: We expand on a recent development by Hardy, in which quantum mechanics is derived from classical probability theory supplemented by a single new axiom, Hardy's Axiom 5. Our scenario involves a `pretend world' with a `pretend' Heisenberg who seeks to construct a dynamical theory of probabilities and is lead -- seemingly inevitably -- to the Principles of Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0307122
title: Experimental realization of entangled qutrits for quantum communication
authors: R.T.Thew, A.Acin, H.Zbinden, N.Gisin
comments: Minor revisions. Accepted version for QIC
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. Vol. 4, No. 2 (2004) 093\^A?"101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307122
abstract: We have experimentally realized a technique to generate, control and measure entangled qutrits, 3-dimensional quantum systems. This scheme uses spontaneous parametric down converted photons and unbalanced 3-arm fiber optic interferometers in a scheme analogous to the Franson interferometric arrangement for qubits. The results reveal a source capable of generating maximally entangled states with a net state fidelity, F = 0.985 $\pm$ 0.018. Further the control over the system reveals a high, net, 2-photon interference fringe visibility, V = 0.919 $\pm$ 0.026. This has all been done at telecom wavelengths thus facilitating the advancement towards long distance higher dimensional quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0307123
title: Bell inequalities and incompatible measurements
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 8 pages. LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307123
abstract: Bell inequalities are a consequence of measurement incompatibility (not, as generally thought, of nonlocality). In classical terms, this is equivalent to contextuality -- measurement devices do have a significant effect. Contextual models are reasonable in classical physics, which always took the view that we ignore measurement devices whenever possible, but if that isn't good enough then we do have to model measurement devices. It is also argued that quantum theory should only be taken with counterfactual seriousness, because measurement incompatibility is a counterfactual concept.

id: quant-ph/0307124
title: Entanglement, Mixedness, and Spin-Flip Symmetry in Multiple-Qubit Systems
authors: Gregg Jaeger, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: To appear in Physical Review A; submitted 14 May 2003
journal: Physical Review A 68, 022318 (2003) .
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307124
abstract: A relationship between a recently introduced multipartite entanglement measure, state mixedness, and spin-flip symmetry is established for any finite number of qubits. It is also shown that, within those classes of states invariant under the spin-flip transformation, there is a complementarity relation between multipartite entanglement and mixedness. A number of example classes of multiple-qubit systems are studied in light of this relationship.

id: quant-ph/0307125
title: The statistical strength of nonlocality proofs
authors: Wim van Dam, Peter Grunwald, Richard Gill
comments: 36 pages, no figures, v2: major changes in presentation, no changes in results, conjectures added
journal: IEEE-Transactions on Information Theory 51 (2005), 2812-2835
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307125
abstract: There exist numerous proofs of Bell's theorem, stating that quantum mechanics is incompatible with local realistic theories of nature. Here we define the strength of such nonlocality proofs in terms of the amount of evidence against local realism provided by the corresponding experiments. This measure tells us how many trials of the experiment we should perform in order to observe a substantial violation of local realism. Statistical considerations show that the amount of evidence should be measured by the Kullback-Leibler or relative entropy divergence between the probability distributions over the measurement outcomes that the respective theories predict. The statistical strength of a nonlocality proof is thus determined by the experimental implementation of it that maximizes the Kullback-Leibler divergence from experimental (quantum mechanical) truth to the set of all possible local theories. An implementation includes a specification with which probabilities the different measurement settings are sampled, and hence the maximization is done over all such setting distributions. We analyze two versions of Bell's nonlocality proof (his original proof and an optimized version by Peres), and proofs by Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt, Hardy, Mermin, and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger. We find that the GHZ proof is at least four and a half times stronger than all other proofs, while of the two-party proofs, the one of CHSH is the strongest.

id: quant-ph/0307126
title: Comment on "Quantum identification schemes with entanglements"
authors: Wim van Dam
comments: 2 pages, revtex4
journal: Physical Review A, Volume 68, Number 2, Article 026301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307126
abstract: In a recent paper, [Phys. Rev. A 65, 052326 (2002)], Mihara presented several cryptographic protocols that were claimed to be quantum mechanical in nature. In this comment it is pointed out that these protocols can be described in purely classical terms. Hence, the security of these schemes does not rely on the usage of entanglement or any other quantum mechanical property.

id: quant-ph/0307127
title: On Quantum State Observability and Measurement
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307127
abstract: We consider the problem of determining the state of a quantum system given one or more readings of the expectation value of an observable. The system is assumed to be a finite dimensional quantum control system for which we can influence the dynamics by generating all the unitary evolutions in a Lie group. We investigate to what extent, by an appropriate sequence of evolutions and measurements, we can obtain information on the initial state of the system. We present a system theoretic viewpoint of this problem in that we study the {\it observability} of the system. In this context, we characterize the equivalence classes of indistinguishable states and propose algorithms for state identification.

id: quant-ph/0307128
title: Model identification for spin networks
authors: Francesca Albertini, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307128
abstract: We consider the problem of determining the unknown parameters of the Hamiltonian of a network of spin 1/2 particles. In particular, we study experiments in which the system is driven by an externally applied electro-magnetic field and the expectation value of the total magnetization is measured. Under appropriate assumptions, we prove that, if it is possible to prepare the system in a known initial state, the above experiment allows to identify the parameters of the Hamiltonian. In the case where the initial state is itself an unknown parameter, we characterize all the pairs Hamiltonian-Initial State which give the same value of the magnetization for every form of the driving electro-magnetic field. The analysis is motivated by recent results on the isospectrality of Hamiltonians describing Magnetic Molecules.

id: quant-ph/0307129
title: Controllability, Observability and Parameter Identification of two coupled spin 1's
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307129
abstract: In this paper, we study the control theoretic properties of a couple of interacting spin 1's driven by an electro-magnetic field. In particular, we assume that it is possible to observe the expectation value of the total magnetization and we study controllability, observability and parameter identification of these systems. We give conditions for controllability and observability and characterize the classes of equivalent models which have the same input-output behavior. The analysis is motivated by the recent interest in three level systems in quantum information theory and quantum cryptography as well as by the problem of modeling molecular magnets as spin networks.

id: quant-ph/0307130
title: Multi-party entanglement in graph states
authors: M. Hein, J. Eisert, H.J. Briegel
comments: 22 pages, 15 figures, 2 tables, typos corrected (e.g. in measurement rules), references added/updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062311 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307130
abstract: Graph states are multi-particle entangled states that correspond to mathematical graphs, where the vertices of the graph take the role of quantum spin systems and edges represent Ising interactions. They are many-body spin states of distributed quantum systems that play a significant role in quantum error correction, multi-party quantum communication, and quantum computation within the framework of the one-way quantum computer. We characterize and quantify the genuine multi-particle entanglement of such graph states in terms of the Schmidt measure, to which we provide upper and lower bounds in graph theoretical terms. Several examples and classes of graphs will be discussed, where these bounds coincide. These examples include trees, cluster states of different dimension, graphs that occur in quantum error correction, such as the concatenated [7,1,3]-CSS code, and a graph associated with the quantum Fourier transform in the one-way computer. We also present general transformation rules for graphs when local Pauli measurements are applied, and give criteria for the equivalence of two graphs up to local unitary transformations, employing the stabilizer formalism. For graphs of up to seven vertices we provide complete characterization modulo local unitary transformations and graph isomorphies.

id: quant-ph/0307131
title: Entanglement, quantum phase transition and scaling in XXZ chain
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin, You-Quan Li
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042330(2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307131
abstract: Motivated by recent development in quantum entanglement, we study relations among concurrence $C$, SU$_q$(2) algebra, quantum phase transition and correlation length at the zero temperature for the XXZ chain. We find that at the SU(2) point, the ground state possess the maximum concurrence. When the anisotropic parameter $\Delta$ is deformed, however, its value decreases. Its dependence on $\Delta$ scales as $C=C_0-C_1(\Delta-1)^2$ in the XY metallic phase and near the critical point (i.e. $1<\Delta<1.3$) of the Ising-like insulating phase. We also study the dependence of $C$ on the correlation length $\xi$, and show that it satisfies $C=C_0-1/2\xi$ near the critical point. For different size of the system, we show that there exists a universal scaling function of $C$ with respect to the correlation length $\xi$.

id: quant-ph/0307132
title: A Class of Linear Positive Maps in Matrix Algebras
authors: Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307132
abstract: A class of linear positive, trace preserving maps in $M_n$ is given in terms of affine maps in $\bBR^{n^2-1}$ which map the closed unit ball into itself.

id: quant-ph/0307133
title: Coherent states and Chebyshev polynomials
authors: V.V.Borzov, E.V.Damaskinsky
comments: 5 pages, no figures, Latex2e, Based on the talk given on the Chebyshev Workshop, Obninsk, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307133
abstract: We define the coherent states for the oscillator-like systems, connected with the Chebyshev polynomials $T_n(x)$ and $U_n(x)$ of the 1-st and 2-nd kind.

id: quant-ph/0307134
title: Entanglement production in coupled chaotic systems : Case of the Kicked Tops
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 27 pages, 15 figures, revtex4 ; Modified title, minor corrections and few references added ; Version as to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E, vol.69, 016201 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307134
abstract: Entanglement production in coupled chaotic systems is studied with the help of kicked tops. Deriving the correct classical map, we have used the reduced Husimi function, the Husimi function of the reduced density matrix, to visualize the possible behaviors of a wavepacket. We have studied a phase space based measure of the complexity of a state and used random matrix theory (RMT) to model the strongly chaotic cases. Extensive numerical studies have been done for the entanglement production in coupled kicked tops corresponding to different underlying classical dynamics and different coupling strengths. An approximate formula, based on RMT, is derived for the entanglement production in coupled strongly chaotic systems. This formula, applicable for arbitrary coupling strengths and also valid for long time, complements and extends significantly recent perturbation theories for strongly chaotic weakly coupled systems.

id: quant-ph/0307135
title: Entanglement dynamics and quantum state transport in spin chains
authors: V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A69, 034304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307135
abstract: We study the dynamics of a Heisenberg-XY spin chain with an unknown state coded into one qubit or a pair of entangled qubits, with the rest of the spins being in a polarized state. The time evolution involves magnon excitations, and through them the entanglement is transported across the channel. For a large number of qubits, explicit formulae for the concurrences, measures for two-qubit entanglements, and the fidelity for recovering the state some distance away are calculated as functions of time. Initial states with an entangled pair of qubits show better fidelity, which takes its first maximum value at earlier times, compared to initial states with no entangled pair. In particular initial states with a pair of qubits in an unknown state (alpha up-up + beta down-down) are best suited for quantum state transport.

id: quant-ph/0307136
title: Neutral Radical Molecules Ordered in Self-Assembled Monolayer Systems for Quantum Information Processing
authors: A. Tamulis, V. I. Tsifrinovich, S. Tretiak, G. P. Berman, D. L. Allara
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307136
abstract: Implementation of quantum information processing based on spatially localized electronic spins in stable molecular radicals is discussed. The necessary operating conditions for such molecules are formulated in self-assembled monolayer (SAM) systems. As a model system we start with 1, 3 -diketone types of neutral radicals. Using first principles quantum chemical calculations we prove that these molecules have the stable localized electron spin, which may represent a qubit in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0307137
title: On the position uncertainty measure on the circle
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex 2e, 7 pages, 1 .ps figure
journal: J. Phys. A36 (2003) 11873
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307137
abstract: New position uncertainty (delocalization) measures for a particle on the circle are proposed and illustrated on several examples, where the previous measures (based on 2pi-periodic position operators) appear to be unsatisfactory. The new measures are suitably constructed using the standard multiplication angle operator variances. They are shown to depend solely on the state of the particle and to obey uncertainty relations of the Schroedinger-Robertson type.

id: quant-ph/0307138
title: Iterative Optimization of Quantum Error Correcting Codes
authors: M. Reimpell, R. F. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX 4; stability of algorithm included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 080501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307138
abstract: We introduce a convergent iterative algorithm for finding the optimal coding and decoding operations for an arbitrary noisy quantum channel. This algorithm does not require any error syndrome to be corrected completely, and hence also finds codes outside the usual Knill-Laflamme definition of error correcting codes. The iteration is shown to improve the figure of merit "channel fidelity" in every step.

id: quant-ph/0307139
title: Generalizations of Kochen and Specker's Theorem and the Effectiveness of Gleason's Theorem
authors: Ehud Hrushovski, Itamar Pitowsky
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, read at the Robert Clifton memorial conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307139
abstract: Kochen and Specker's theorem can be seen as a consequence of Gleason's theorem and logical compactness. Similar compactness arguments lead to stronger results about finite sets of rays in Hilbert space, which we also prove by a direct construction. Finally, we demonstrate that Gleason's theorem itself has a constructive proof, based on a generic, finite, effectively generated set of rays, on which every quantum state can be approximated.

id: quant-ph/0307140
title: Relation between discrete and continuous teleportation using linear elements
authors: Dirk Witthaut, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 7 pages; corrected minor mistakes
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 4, 122 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307140
abstract: We discuss the relation between discrete and continuous linear teleportation, i.e. teleportation schemes that use only linear optical elements and photodetectors. For this the existing qubit protocols are generalized to qudits with a discrete and finite spectrum but with an arbitrary number of states or alternatively to continuous variables. Correspondingly a generalization of linear optical operations and detection is made. It is shown that linear teleportation is only possible in a probabilistic sense. A general expression for the success probability is derived which is shown to depend only on the dimensions of the input and ancilla Hilbert spaces. From this the known results $p=1/2$ and $p=1$ for the discrete and continuous cases can be recovered. We also discuss the probabilistic teleportation scheme of Knill, Laflamme and Milburn and argue that it does not make optimum use of resources.

id: quant-ph/0307141
title: Analysis of Grover's quantum search algorithm as a dynamical system
authors: O. Biham, D. Shapira, Y. Shimoni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022326 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307141
abstract: Grover's quantum search algorithm is analyzed for the case in which the initial state is an arbitrary pure quantum state $|\phi>$ of $n$ qubits. It is shown that the optimal time to perform the measurement is independent of $| \phi>$, namely, it is identical to the optimal time in the original algorithm in which $| \phi > = | 0>$, with the same number of marked states, $r$. The probability of success $P_{\rm s}$ is obtained, in terms of the amplitudes of the state $| \phi>$, and is shown to be independent of $r$. A class of states, which includes fixed points and cycles of the Grover iteration operator is identified. The relevance of these results in the context of using the success probability as an entanglement measure is discussed. In particular, the Groverian entanglement measure, previously limited to a single marked state, is generalized to the case of several marked states.

id: quant-ph/0307142
title: The effect of unitary noise on Grover's quantum search algorithm
authors: D. Shapira, S. Mozes, O. Biham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307142
abstract: The effect of unitary noise on the performance of Grover's quantum search algorithm is studied. This type of noise may result from tiny fluctuations and drift in the parameters of the (quantum) components performing the computation. The resulting operations are still unitary, but not precisely those assumed in the design of the algorithm. Here we focus on the effect of such noise in the Hadamard gate $W$, which is an essential component in each iteration of the quantum search process. To this end $W$ is replaced by a noisy Hadamard gate $U$. The parameters of $U$ at each iteration are taken from an arbitrary probability distribution (e.g. Gaussian distribution) and are characterized by their statistical moments around the parameters of $W$. For simplicity we assume that the noise is unbiased and isotropic, namely all noise variables in the parametrization we use have zero average and the same standard deviation $\epsilon$. The noise terms at different calls to $U$ are assumed to be uncorrelated. For a search space of size $N=2^n$ (where $n$ is the number of qubits used to span this space) it is found that as long as $\epsilon < O(n^{-{1/2}} N^{-{1/4}})$, the algorithm maintains significant efficiency, while above this noise level its operation is hampered completely. It is also found that below this noise threshold, when the search fails, it is likely to provide a state that differs from the marked state by only a few bits. This feature can be used to search for the marked state by a classical post-processing, even if the quantum search has failed, thus improving the success rate of the search process.

id: quant-ph/0307143
title: Violations of Locality Beyond Bell's Theorem
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Sixia Yu, Yong-De Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307143
abstract: Locality and realism are two main assumptions in deriving Bell's inequalities. Though the experimentally demonstrated violations of Bell's inequalities rule out local realism, it is, however, not clear what role each of the two assumptions solely plays in the observed violations. Here we show that two testable inequalities for the statistical predictions of two-qubit systems can be derived by assuming either locality or realism. It turns out that quantum mechanics respects a nonlocal classical realism, and it is locality that is incompatible with experimental observations and quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0307144
title: Violation of Locality Without Inequalities for Multiparticle Perfect Correlations
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Nai-Le Liu, Sixia Yu, Yong-De Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307144
abstract: We prove that for a three-qubit system in the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, locality per se is in conflict with the perfect GHZ correlations. The proof does not in any way use the realism assumption and can lead to a refutation of locality. We also provide inequalities that are imposed by locality. The experimental confirmation of the present reasoning may imply a genuine quantum nonlocality and will deepen our understanding of nonlocality of nature.

id: quant-ph/0307145
title: Chains of Darboux transformations for the matrix Schroedinger equation
authors: Boris F Samsonov, AA Pecheritsin
comments: Talk at the International Conference "Progress in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics", Valladolid, Spain, July 15-20, 2003
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 239-250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307145
abstract: Chains of Darboux transformations for the matrix Schroedinger equation are considered. Matrix generalization of the well-known for the scalar equation Crum-Krein formulas for the resulting action of such chains is given.

id: quant-ph/0307146
title: Second Order Darboux Displacements
authors: B F Samsonov, M L Glasser, J Negro, L M Nieto
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 10053--10069
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307146
abstract: The potentials for a one dimensional Schroedinger equation that are displaced along the x axis under second order Darboux transformations, called 2-SUSY invariant, are characterized in terms of a differential-difference equation. The solutions of the Schroedinger equation with such potentials are given analytically for any value of the energy. The method is illustrated by a two-soliton potential. It is proven that a particular case of the periodic Lame-Ince potential is 2-SUSY invariant. Both Bloch solutions of the corresponding Schroedinger equation equation are found for any value of the energy. A simple analytic expression for a family of two-gap potentials is derived.

id: quant-ph/0307147
title: Entanglement Generation from Thermal Spin States via Unitary Beam Splitters
authors: D. Markham, M. Murao, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Small changes in accordance with journal advice to make more readable. Improved discussion on implemetability of scheme, and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2003) 062312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307147
abstract: We suggest a method of generating distillable entanglement form mixed states unitarily, by utilizing the flexibility of dimension od occupied Hilbert space. We present a model of a thermal spin state entering a beam splitter generating entanglement. It is the truncation of the state that allows for entanglement generation. The output entanglement is investigated for different temperatures and it is found that more randomness - in the form of higher temperature - is better for this set up.

id: quant-ph/0307148
title: Fungible dynamics: there are only two types of entangling multiple-qubit interactions
authors: Michael J. Bremner, Jennifer L. Dodd, Michael A. Nielsen, Dave Bacon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (1): Art. No. 012313 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307148
abstract: What interactions are sufficient to simulate arbitrary quantum dynamics in a composite quantum system? It has been shown that all two-body Hamiltonian evolutions can be simulated using \emph{any} fixed two-body entangling $n$-qubit Hamiltonian and fast local unitaries. By \emph{entangling} we mean that every qubit is coupled to every other qubit, if not directly, then indirectly via intermediate qubits. We extend this study to the case where interactions may involve more than two qubits at a time. We find necessary and sufficient conditions for an arbitrary $n$-qubit Hamiltonian to be \emph{dynamically universal}, that is, able to simulate any other Hamiltonian acting on $n$ qubits, possibly in an inefficient manner. We prove that an entangling Hamiltonian is dynamically universal if and only if it contains at least one coupling term involving an \emph{even} number of interacting qubits. For \emph{odd} entangling Hamiltonians, i.e., Hamiltonians with couplings that involve only an odd number of qubits, we prove that dynamic universality is possible on an encoded set of $n-1$ logical qubits. We further prove that an odd entangling Hamiltonian can simulate any other odd Hamiltonian and classify the algebras that such Hamiltonians generate. Thus, our results show that up to local unitary operations, there are only two fundamentally different types of entangling Hamiltonian on $n$ qubits. We also demonstrate that, provided the number of qubits directly coupled by the Hamiltonian is bounded above by a constant, our techniques can be made efficient.

id: quant-ph/0307149
title: Lower Bounds for Local Search by Quantum Arguments
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307149
abstract: The problem of finding a local minimum of a black-box function is central for understanding local search as well as quantum adiabatic algorithms. For functions on the Boolean hypercube {0,1}^n, we show a lower bound of Omega(2^{n/4}/n) on the number of queries needed by a quantum computer to solve this problem. More surprisingly, our approach, based on Ambainis' quantum adversary method, also yields a lower bound of Omega(2^{n/2}/n^2) on the problem's classical randomized query complexity. This improves and simplifies a 1983 result of Aldous. Finally, in both the randomized and quantum cases, we give the first nontrivial lower bounds for finding local minima on grids of constant dimension greater than 2.

id: quant-ph/0307150
title: A Lambda Calculus for Quantum Computation
authors: Andre van Tonder
comments: To appear in SIAM Journal on Computing. Minor corrections and improvements. Simulator available at this http URL
journal: SIAM J.Comput. 33 (2004) 1109-1135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307150
abstract: The classical lambda calculus may be regarded both as a programming language and as a formal algebraic system for reasoning about computation. It provides a computational model equivalent to the Turing machine, and continues to be of enormous benefit in the classical theory of computation. We propose that quantum computation, like its classical counterpart, may benefit from a version of the lambda calculus suitable for expressing and reasoning about quantum algorithms. In this paper we develop a quantum lambda calculus as an alternative model of quantum computation, which combines some of the benefits of both the quantum Turing machine and the quantum circuit models. The calculus turns out to be closely related to the linear lambda calculi used in the study of Linear Logic. We set up a computational model and an equational proof system for this calculus, and we argue that it is equivalent to the quantum Turing machine.

id: quant-ph/0307151
title: Entanglement as precondition for secure quantum key distribution
authors: Marcos Curty, Maciej Lewenstein, Norbert Ltkenhaus
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 217903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307151
abstract: We demonstrate that a necessary precondition for unconditionally secure quantum key distribution is that sender and receiver can use the available measurement results to prove the presence of entanglement in a quantum state that is effectively distributed between them. One can thus systematically search for entanglement using the class of entanglement witness operators that can be constructed from the observed data. We apply such analysis to two well-known quantum key distribution protocols, namely the 4-state protocol and the 6-state protocol. As a special case, we show that, for some asymmetric error patterns, the presence of entanglement can be proven even for error rates above 25% (4-state protocol) and 33% (6-state protocol).

id: quant-ph/0307152
title: Intertwining technique for the one-dimensional stationary Dirac equation
authors: L.M. Nieto, A.A. Pecheritsin, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 305 (2003) 151-189
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307152
abstract: The technique of differential intertwining operators (or Darboux transformation operators) is systematically applied to the one-dimensional Dirac equation. The following aspects are investigated: factorization of a polynomial of Dirac Hamiltonians, quadratic supersymmetry, closed extension of transformation operators, chains of transformations, and finally particular cases of pseudoscalar and scalar potentials. The method is widely illustrated by numerous examples.

id: quant-ph/0307153
title: Scaling issues in ensemble implementations of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm
authors: Arvind, David Collins
comments: Minor changes, reference added, replaced with publised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052301 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307153
abstract: We discuss the ensemble version of the Deutsch-Jozsa (DJ) algorithm which attempts to provide a "scalable" implementation on an expectation-value NMR quantum computer. We show that this ensemble implementation of the DJ algorithm is at best as efficient as the classical random algorithm. As soon as any attempt is made to classify all possible functions with certainty, the implementation requires an exponentially large number of molecules. The discrepancies arise out of the interpretation of mixed state density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0307154
title: Quantum Mechanical Ground State of Hydrogen Obtained from Classical Electrodynamics
authors: Daniel C. Cole, Yi Zou
comments: TeX file plus five figures [1, 2(a,b,c,d)]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307154
abstract: The behavior of a classical charged point particle under the influence of only a Coulombic binding potential and classical electromagnetic zero-point radiation, is shown to yield agreement with the probability density distribution of Schroedinger's wave equation for the ground state of hydrogen. These results, obtained without any fitting parameters, again raise the possibility that the main tenets of stochastic electrodynamics (SED) are correct, thereby potentially providing a more fundamental basis of quantum mechanics. The present methods should help propel yet deeper investigations into SED.

id: quant-ph/0307155
title: On a suggestion relating topological and quantum mechanical entanglements
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour, L. Memarzadeh, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: RevTex, 7 eps figures, to be published in Phys. Lett. A (2004)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 327, 380 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307155
abstract: We analyze a recent suggestion \cite{kauffman1,kauffman2} on a possible relation between topological and quantum mechanical entanglements. We show that a one to one correspondence does not exist, neither between topologically linked diagrams and entangled states, nor between braid operators and quantum entanglers. We also add a new dimension to the question of entangling properties of unitary operators in general.

id: quant-ph/0307156
title: On the Quantum Phase Operator for Coherent States
authors: Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam, Bjorn A. Bergsjordet
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures. Typographical errors and misprints have been corrected. The outline of the paper has also been changed. Physica Scripta (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307156
abstract: In papers by Lynch [Phys. Rev. A41, 2841 (1990)] and Gerry and Urbanski [Phys. Rev. A42, 662 (1990)] it has been argued that the phase-fluctuation laser experiments of Gerhardt, B\"uchler and Lifkin [Phys. Lett. 49A, 119 (1974)] are in good agreement with the variance of the Pegg-Barnett phase operator for a coherent state, even for a small number of photons. We argue that this is not conclusive. In fact, we show that the variance of the phase in fact depends on the relative phase between the phase of the coherent state and the off-set phase $\phi_0$ of the Pegg-Barnett phase operator. This off-set phase is replaced with the phase of a reference beam in an actual experiment and we show that several choices of such a relative phase can be fitted to the experimental data. We also discuss the Noh, Foug\`{e}res and Mandel [Phys.Rev. A46, 2840 (1992)] relative phase experiment in terms of the Pegg-Barnett phase taking post-selection conditions into account.

id: quant-ph/0307157
title: Source Field Effects and Wave Function Collapse
authors: Atilla Gurel, Zeynep Gurel
comments: The content restructured, introduction enhanced to better reflect the objective of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307157
abstract: Detection of a material particle is accompanied by emission of bremsstrahlung. Thus the dynamics of the energy loss of the particle is determined by radiation reaction force. The description of radiation reaction is a difficult problem still being subject of ongoing debates. There are problems of runaway solutions, preacceleration already in classical description of radiation reaction. Additional complications in quantum mechanical description arise because of the infinite source field energy term in hamiltonian for a point charge. There is still no general consensus on an appropriate quantum mechanical description. Neither the achievements of the radiation theory on the subject nor the problems associated with it are sufficiently taken into account in context with measurement problem. Radiation reaction doesn't effect free particle wave packets, but it favors stationary states of the `wave function of the measured particle" in presence of a potential gradient. We suggest therefore that radiation reaction may play a significant role in the dynamics of the wave function collapse. keywords: wave function collapse,interpretation,randomness, Jaynes Cummings dynamics, spontaneous emission, source field effects, radiation reaction, quantum measurement,decoherence

id: quant-ph/0307158
title: Discrete entanglement distribution with squeezed light
authors: Barbara Kraus, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307158
abstract: We show how one can entangle distant atoms by using squeezed light. Entanglement is obtained in steady state, and can be increased by manipulating the atoms locally. We study the effects of imperfections, and show how to scale up the scheme to build a quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0307159
title: New exactly solvable periodic potentials for the Dirac equation
authors: B.F. Samsonov, A.A. Pecheritsin, E.O. Pozdeeva, M.L. Glasser
comments: 
journal: European Journal of Physics 24 (2003) 435-441
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307159
abstract: A new exactly solvable relativistic periodic potential is obtained by the periodic extension of a well-known transparent scalar potential. It is found that the energy band edges are determined by a transcendental equation which is very similar to the corresponding equation for the Dirac Kronig-Penney model. The solutions of the Dirac equation are expressed in terms of elementary functions.

id: quant-ph/0307160
title: Analysis of the loss of coherence in interferometry with macromolecules
authors: A. Viale, M. Vicari, N. Zanghi'
comments: 20 pages LaTeX, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063610 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307160
abstract: We provide a self-contained quantum description of the interference produced by macromolecules diffracted by a grating, with particular reference to fullerene interferometry experiments. We analyze the processes inducing loss of coherence consisting in beam preparation (collimation setup and thermal spread of the wavelengths of the macromolecules) and in environmental disturbances. The results show a good agreement with experimental data published by Zeilinger's group and highlight the analogy with optics. Our analysis gives some hints for planning future experiments.

id: quant-ph/0307161
title: Observed Correlations in Minkowski Space
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307161
abstract: The author has proposed five rules that permit conscious observers to be included in quantum mechanics. In the present paper, these rules are applied to the observation of a non-local pair of correlated particles. Rule (4) again prevents an anomalous result. Two different kinds of relativistic state reduction are considered, where these differ in the way that they impose boundary conditions in Minkowski space. In response to a problem that arises in this context, we require the Lorentz invariance of stochastic hits. And finally, it is claimed that the rules proposed by the author are themselves relativistically covariant with some qualification. Key Words: brain states, boundary conditions, consciousness, decoherence, macroscopic superposition, probability current, von Neumann, wave collapse.

id: quant-ph/0307162
title: Direct observation of non-classical photon statistics in parametric downconversion
authors: Edo Waks, Eleni Diamanti, Barry C. Sanders, Stephen D. Bartlett, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 113602 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307162
abstract: We employ a high quantum efficiency photon number counter to determine the photon number distribution of the output field from a parametric downconverter. The raw photocount data directly demonstrates that the source is nonclassical by forty standard deviations, and correcting for the quantum efficiency yields a direct observation of oscillations in the photon number distribution.

id: quant-ph/0307163
title: Entanglement between two superconducting qubits via interaction with non-classical radiation
authors: Mauro Paternostro, Giuseppe Falci, Myungshik Kim, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 214502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307163
abstract: We propose a scheme to physically interface superconducting nano-circuits and quantum optics. We address the transfer of quantum information between systems having different physical natures and defined in Hilbert spaces of different dimensions. In particular, we investigate the transfer of the entanglement initially in a non-classical state of a continuous-variable system to a pair of superconducting charge qubits. This set-up is able to drive an initially separable state of the qubits into an almost pure, highly entangled state suitable for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0307164
title: Nonlocal Properties and Local Invariants for Bipartite Systems
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Preeti Parashar, Wen-Li Yang
comments: Latex, 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 010313 (R) 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307164
abstract: The nonlocal properties for a kind of generic N-dimensional bipartite quantum systems are investigated. A complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations is presented. It is shown that two generic density matrices are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have equal values in these density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0307165
title: Measurement and Information Extraction in Complex Dynamics Quantum Computation
authors: G.Casati, S.Montangero
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, Proceeding of "First International Workshop DICE2002 - Piombino (Tuscany), (2002)"
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics Vol. 633, 341, (Springer, Berlin, 2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307165
abstract: We address the problem related to the extraction of the information in the simulation of complex dynamics quantum computation. Here we present an example where important information can be extracted efficiently by means of quantum simulations. We show how to extract efficiently the localization length, the mean square deviation and the system characteristic frequency. We show how this methods work on a dynamical model, the Sawtooth Map, that is characterized by very different dynamical regimes: from near integrable to fully developed chaos; it also exhibits quantum dynamical localization.

id: quant-ph/0307166
title: Scaling and renormalization in fault-tolerant quantum computers
authors: Maxim Raginsky
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures; revtex4; based on talk given at the Simons Conference on Quantum and Reversible Computation, Stony Brook NY, May 28-31; minor typographical changes
journal: Quantum Inf. Processing 2, 249-258 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307166
abstract: This work is concerned with phrasing the concepts of fault-tolerant quantum computation within the framework of disordered systems, Bernoulli site percolation in particular. We show how the so-called "threshold theorems" on the possibility of fault-tolerant quantum computation with constant error rate can be cast as a renormalization (coarse-graining) of the site percolation process describing the occurrence of errors during computation. We also use percolation techniques to derive a trade-off between the complexity overhead of the fault-tolerant circuit and the threshold error rate.

id: quant-ph/0307167
title: Inclusion relations among separability criteria
authors: J. Batle, A. R. Plastino, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Physics A 37, 895 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307167
abstract: We revisit the application of different separability criteria by recourse to an exhaustive Monte Carlo exploration involving the pertinent state-space of pure and mixed states. The corresponding chain of implications of different criteria is in such a way numerically elucidated. We also quantify, for a bipartite system of arbitrary dimension, the proportion of states $\rho$ that can be distilled according to a definite criterion. Our work can be regarded as a complement to the recent review paper by B. Terhal [Theor. Comp. Sci. {\bf 287} (2002) 313]. Some questions posed there receive an answer here.

id: quant-ph/0307168
title: Cavity QED and Quantum Computation in the Strong Coupling Regime II : Two Atoms Case
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307168
abstract: In this paper we study the behavior of (laser--cooled) m--atoms trapped in a cavity interacting with a photon $...$ Cavity QED $...$ and attempt to solve the Schr{\"o}dinger equation of this model in the strong coupling regime. In the case of m = 2 we construct Bell--Schr{\" o}dinger cat states (in our terminology) and obtain with such bases some unitary transformations by making use of the rotating wave approximation under new resonance conditionscontaining the Bessel functions, which will be applied to construct important quantum logic gates in Quantum Computation. Moreover we propose in the case of m = 3 a crucial problem to solve on Quantum Computation.

id: quant-ph/0307169
title: Wehrl entropy, Lieb conjecture and entanglement monotones
authors: Florian Mintert, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 
journal: PRA 69, 022317 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307169
abstract: We propose to quantify the entanglement of pure states of $N \times N$ bipartite quantum system by defining its Husimi distribution with respect to $SU(N)\times SU(N)$ coherent states. The Wehrl entropy is minimal if and only if the pure state analyzed is separable. The excess of the Wehrl entropy is shown to be equal to the subentropy of the mixed state obtained by partial trace of the bipartite pure state. This quantity, as well as the generalized (R{\'e}nyi) subentropies, are proved to be Schur--convex, so they are entanglement monotones and may be used as alternative measures of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0307170
title: Quantum Stein's lemma revisited, inequalities for quantum entropies, and a concavity theorem of Lieb
authors: Igor Bjelakovic, Rainer Siegmund-Schultze
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Completely rewritten update of the paper: Title changed, the proofs are considerably simplified, joint convexity of the relative entropy is taken into account and a self-contained, operational approach to a recent proof by Tropp of one of Lieb's concavity results for trace functions is presented. Use of the Hiai/Petz-approximation of the quantum relative entropy is avoided
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307170
abstract: We derive the monotonicity of the quantum relative entropy by an elementary operational argument based on Stein's lemma in quantum hypothesis testing. For the latter we present an elementary and short proof that requires the law of large numbers only. Joint convexity of the quantum relative entropy is proven too, resulting in a self-contained elementary version of Tropp's approach to Lieb's concavity theorem, according to which the map tr(exp(h+log a)) is concave in a on positive operators for self-adjoint h.

id: quant-ph/0307171
title: Separability conditions from entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 10 pages, 2 figure (Typos removed. To appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307171
abstract: We derive a collection of separability conditions for bipartite systems of dimensions d X d which is based on the entropic version of the uncertainty relations. A detailed analysis of the two-qubit case is given by comparing the new separability conditions with existing criteria.

id: quant-ph/0307172
title: Quantum-Mechanical Dualities from Classical Phase Space
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 8 pages, Latex
journal: Phys.Lett. A317 (2003) 343-348
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307172
abstract: The geometry of the classical phase space C of a finite number of degrees of freedom determines the possible duality symmetries of the corresponding quantum mechanics. Under duality we understand the relativity of the notion of a quantum with respect to an observer on C. We illustrate this property explicitly in the case when classical phase space is complex n-dimensional projective space. We also provide some examples of classical dynamics that exhibit these properties at the quantum level.

id: quant-ph/0307173
title: Scheme for preparation of W state via cavity QED
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Ming Yang
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 2, No. 2 (2004) 231-235
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307173
abstract: In this paper, we presented a physical scheme to generate the multi-cavity maximally entangled W state via cavity QED. All the operations needed in this scheme are to modulate the interaction time only once.

id: quant-ph/0307174
title: Entanglement distillation for atomic states via cavity QED
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Ming Yang
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica A 341 (2004) 251--261
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307174
abstract: In this paper, we proposed a physical scheme to concentrate the non-maximally entangled atomic pure states via cavity QED by using atomic collision in a far-off-resonant cavity. The most distinctive advantage of our scheme is that there is no excitation of cavity mode during the distillation procedure. Therefore the requirement on the quality of cavity is greatly loosened.

id: quant-ph/0307175
title: Superconducting Analogues of Quantum Optical Phenomena: Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions and Squeezing in a SQUID Ring
authors: M. J. Everitt, T. D. Clark, P. B. Stiffell, A. Vourdas, J. F. Ralph, R. J. Prance, H. Prance
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, To be submitted to Phys. Rev. A. (changes for referee's and editior's comments - replaced to try to get PDF working)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 043804 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307175
abstract: In this paper we explore the quantum behaviour of a SQUID ring which has a significant Josephson coupling energy. We show that that the eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian for the ring can be used to create macroscopic quantum superposition states of the ring. We also show that the ring potential may be utilised to squeeze coherent states. With the SQUID ring as a strong contender as a device for manipulating quantum information, such properties may be of great utility in the future. However, as with all candidate systems for quantum technologies, decoherence is a fundamental problem. In this paper we apply an open systems approach to model the effect of coupling a quantum mechanical SQUID ring to a thermal bath. We use this model to demonstrate the manner in which decoherence affects the quantum states of the ring.

id: quant-ph/0307176
title: Quantum Cellular Automata from Lattice Field Theories
authors: Michael McGuigan
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307176
abstract: We apply the methods of lattice field theories to the quantization of cellular automata. We discuss the quantization of five main categories of cellular automata: bosonic, fermionic, supersymmetric, spin and quantum dot using path integral and operator formalisms of lattice field theories. We show that the quantization of supersymmetric cellular automata is related to recently discussed string bit models of Thorn and Bergman and represents a link of cellular automata theory to fundamental physics. We discuss spin and quantum dot cellular automata for their importance in experimental realizations and their use in quantum computation. Previous studies of quantum cellular automata utilize the wave function values as cell contents and the discretized linear Dirac equation as an update equation. We show that our approach to the quantization of fermionic cellular automata includes this utilization as a field equation, and in addition allows for nonlinearity through lattice field interactions.

id: quant-ph/0307177
title: A universal quantum circuit for two-qubit transformations with three CNOT gates
authors: G. Vidal, C. M. Dawson
comments: 3 pages, 7 figures. One theorem, one author and references added. Change of notational conventions. Minor correction in Theorem 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 010301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307177
abstract: We consider the implementation of two-qubit unitary transformations by means of CNOT gates and single-qubit unitary gates. We show, by means of an explicit quantum circuit, that together with local gates three CNOT gates are necessary and sufficient in order to implement an arbitrary unitary transformation of two qubits. We also identify the subset of two-qubit gates that can be performed with only two CNOT gates.

id: quant-ph/0307178
title: Overcoming Quantum Noise in Optical Fibers
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: v2: 10 pages, 1 figure. Significantly rewritten, many details added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307178
abstract: Noise in optical Telecom fibers is an important limitation on optical quantum data transmission. Unfortunately, the classically successful amplifiers (such as EDFA) cannot be used in quantum communication because of the no-cloning theorem. We propose a simple method to reduce quantum noise: the insertion of phase-shifters and/or beam-splitters at regular distance intervals into a fiber. We analyze in detail the case of qubits encoded into polarization states of low-intensity light, which is of central importance to various quantum information tasks, such as quantum cryptography and communication. We discuss the experimental feasibility of our scheme and propose a simple experiment to test our method.

id: quant-ph/0307179
title: There is no first quantization - except in the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307179
abstract: The relativistic effects of the integer-spin quantum field theory imply that the wave functions describing a fixed number of particles do not admit the usual probabilistic interpretation. Among several most popular interpretations of quantum mechanics applied to first quantization, the only interpretation for which this fact does not lead to a serious problem, and therefore the only consistent interpretation of first quantization, is the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0307180
title: Stability of macroscopic entanglement under decoherence
authors: W. Dr, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 180403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307180
abstract: We investigate the lifetime of macroscopic entanglement under the influence of decoherence. For GHZ-type superposition states we find that the lifetime decreases with the size of the system (i.e. the number of independent degrees of freedom) and the effective number of subsystems that remain entangled decreases with time. For a class of other states (e.g. cluster states), however, we show that the lifetime of entanglement is independent of the size of the system.

id: quant-ph/0307181
title: Controlled creation of maximally entangled states using a SQUID ring coupled to an electromagnetic field
authors: M.J. Everitt, T.D. Clark, P.B. Stiffell, H. Prance, R.J. Prance, J.F. Ralph
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, in limbo may be resubmitted to Phys. Rev
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307181
abstract: We present solutions of the time dependent Schrodinger equation for a SQUID ring coupled to an electromagnetic field, both treated quantum mechanically. We that show the SQUID ring can be used to create a maximally entangled state with the em field that without dissipation remains constant in time. Using methods familiar in quantum optics, we extend the model to include the effects of coupling this system to a dissipative environment. With this model we show that although such an environment makes a noticeable difference to the time evolution of the system, it need not destroy the the entanglement of this coupled system over time scales required for quantum technologies.

id: quant-ph/0307182
title: Extremal Quantum States in Coupled Systems
authors: K. R. Parthasarathy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307182
abstract: Let ${\cal H}_1,$ ${\cal H}_2$ be finite dimensional complex Hilbert spaces describing the states of two finite level quantum systems. Suppose $\rho_i$ is a state in ${\cal H}_i, i=1,2.$ Let ${\cal C} (\rho_1, \rho_2)$ be the convex set of all states $\rho$ in ${\cal H} = {\cal H}_1 \otimes {\cal H}_2$ whose marginal states in ${\cal H}_1$ and ${\cal H}_2$ are $\rho_1$ and $\rho_2$ respectively. Here we present a necessary and sufficient criterion for a $\rho$ in ${\cal C} (\rho_1, \rho_2)$ to be an extreme point. Such a condition implies, in particular, that for a state $\rho$ to be an extreme point of ${\cal C} (\rho_1, \rho_2)$ it is necessary that the rank of $\rho$ does not exceed $(d_1^2 + d_2^2 - 1)^{{1/2}},$ where $d_i = \dim {\cal H}_i, i=1,2.$ When ${\cal H}_1$ and ${\cal H}_2$ coincide with the 1-qubit Hilbert space $\mathbb{C}^2$ with its standard orthonormal basis $\{|0 >, |1> \}$ and $\rho_1 = \rho_2 = {1/2} I$ it turns out that a state $\rho \in {\cal C} ({1/2}I, {1/2}I)$ is extremal if and only if $\rho$ is of the form $|\Omega>< \Omega|$ where $| \Omega > = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (|0> | \psi_0 > + |1 > | \psi_1 >),$ $\{| \psi_0 >, | \psi_1> \}$ being an arbitrary orthonormal basis of $\mathbb{C}^2.$ In particular, the extremal states are the maximally entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0307183
title: A Helium nanodrop bouncing off a wall
authors: G. Ka"lbermann
comments: latex file, 11 eps figures, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307183
abstract: We investigate numerically the quantum collision between a stable Helium nanodrop and an infinitely hard wall in one dimension. The scattering outcome is compared to the same event omitting the quantum pressure. Only the quantum process reflects the effect of diffraction of wave packets in space and time.

id: quant-ph/0307184
title: Dipolar Relaxation in an ultra-cold Gas of magnetically trapped chromium atoms
authors: S. Hensler, J. Werner, A. Griesmaier, P. O. Schmidt, A. Goerlitz, T. Pfau, S. Giovanazzi, K. Rzazewski
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307184
abstract: We have investigated both theoretically and experimentally dipolar relaxation in a gas of magnetically trapped chromium atoms. We have found that the large magnetic moment of 6 $\mu_B$ results in an event rate coefficient for dipolar relaxation processes of up to $3.2\cdot10^{-11}$ cm$^{3}$s$^{-1}$ at a magnetic field of 44 G. We present a theoretical model based on pure dipolar coupling, which predicts dipolar relaxation rates in agreement with our experimental observations. This very general approach can be applied to a large variety of dipolar gases.

id: quant-ph/0307185
title: Entanglement of a Mesoscopic Field with an Atom induced by Photon Graininess in a Cavity
authors: Alexia Auffeves, Paolo Maioli, Tristan Meunier, Sebastien Gleyzes, Gilles Nogues, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307185
abstract: We observe that a mesoscopic field made of several tens of microwave photons exhibits quantum features when interacting with a single Rydberg atom in a high-Q cavity. The field is split into two components whose phases differ by an angle inversely proportional to the square root of the average photon number. The field and the atomic dipole are phase-entangled. These manifestations of photon graininess vanish at the classical limit. This experiment opens the way to studies of large Schrodinger cat states at the quantum-classical boundary.

id: quant-ph/0307186
title: Achievable efficiencies for probabilistically cloning the states
authors: Ting Gao, Fengli Yan, Zhixi Wang
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 37(2004), 3211-3223.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307186
abstract: We present an example of quantum computational tasks whose performance is enhanced if we distribute quantum information using quantum cloning. Furthermore we give achievable efficiencies for probabilistic cloning the quantum states used in implemented tasks for which cloning provides some enhancement in performance.

id: quant-ph/0307187
title: Correlated imaging, quantum and classical
authors: Alessandra Gatti, Enrico Brambilla, Morten Bache, Luigi Lugiato
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 093602 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307187
abstract: We analytically show that it is possible to perform coherent imaging by using the classical correlation of two beams obtained by splitting incoherent thermal radiation. The case of such two classically correlated beams is treated in parallel with the configuration based on two entangled beams produced by parametric down-conversion, and a basic analogy is pointed out. The results are compared in a specific numerical example.

id: quant-ph/0307188
title: On an Argument of David Deutsch
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Revision 28-7-03: added reference Final revision 28-05-04. To appear in proceedings of "Quantum Probability and Infinite Dimensional Analysis", Greifswald, 2003; World Scientific
journal: pp. 277--292 in: M. Sch"urmann and U. Franz (eds.), Quantum Probability and Infinite Dimensional Analysis: from Foundations to Applications. QP--PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Volume 18 (2005). World Scientific.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307188
abstract: We analyse an argument of Deutsch, which purports to show that the deterministic part of classical quantum theory together with deterministic axioms of classical decision theory, together imply that a rational decision maker behaves as if the probabilistic part of quantum theory (Born's law) is true. We uncover two missing assumptions in the argument, and show that the argument also works for an instrumentalist who is prepared to accept that the outcome of a quantum measurement is random in the frequentist sense: Born's law is a consequence of functional and unitary invariance principles belonging to the deterministic part of quantum mechanics. Unfortunately, it turns out that after the necessary corrections we have done no more than give an easier proof of Gleason's theorem under stronger assumptions. However, for some special cases the proof method gives positive results while using different assumptions to Gleason. This leads to the conjecture that the proof could be improved to give the same conclusion as Gleason under unitary invariance together with a much weaker functional invariance condition.

id: quant-ph/0307189
title: On Quantum Statistical Inference, I
authors: O.E. Barndorff-Nielsen, R.D. Gill, P.E. Jupp
comments: A shorter version containing some different material will appear (2003), with discussion, in J. Roy. Statist. Soc. B, and is archived as quant-ph/0307191
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307189
abstract: Recent developments in the mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics have brought the theory closer to that of classical probability and statistics. On the other hand, the unique character of quantum physics sets many of the questions addressed apart from those met classically in stochastics. Furthermore, concurrent advances in experimental techniques and in the theory of quantum computation have led to a strong interest in questions of quantum information, in particular in the sense of the amount of information about unknown parameters in given observational data or accessible through various possible types of measurements. This scenery is outlined (with an audience of statisticians and probabilists in mind).

id: quant-ph/0307190
title: Lower bounds on the complexity of simulating quantum gates
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Henry L. Haselgrove, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052311 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307190
abstract: We give a simple proof of a formula for the minimal time required to simulate a two-qubit unitary operation using a fixed two-qubit Hamiltonian together with fast local unitaries. We also note that a related lower bound holds for arbitrary n-qubit gates.

id: quant-ph/0307191
title: On Quantum Statistical Inference, II
authors: O.E. Barndorff-Nielsen, R.D. Gill, P.E. Jupp
comments: This is the final version of quant-ph/0307189: half the length, some different material. Has appeared in JRSS B 65 (2003), with discussion
journal: J. Roy. Statist. Soc. B 65 (2003), 775-816
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307191
abstract: Interest in problems of statistical inference connected to measurements of quantum systems has recently increased substantially, in step with dramatic new developments in experimental techniques for studying small quantum systems. Furthermore, theoretical developments in the theory of quantum measurements have brought the basic mathematical framework for the probability calculations much closer to that of classical probability theory. The present paper reviews this field and proposes and interrelates a number of new concepts for an extension of classical statistical inference to the quantum context.

id: quant-ph/0307192
title: Characterizing entanglement with global and marginal entropic measures
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati, Silvio De Siena
comments: 6 pages, 5 color figures in low resolution due to oversizing problems; to get the original high-resolution figures please contact the authors. Minor changes, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062318 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307192
abstract: We qualify the entanglement of arbitrary mixed states of bipartite quantum systems by comparing global and marginal mixednesses quantified by different entropic measures. For systems of two qubits we discriminate the class of maximally entangled states with fixed marginal mixednesses, and determine an analytical upper bound relating the entanglement of formation to the marginal linear entropies. This result partially generalizes to mixed states the quantification of entaglement with marginal mixednesses holding for pure states. We identify a class of entangled states that, for fixed marginals, are globally more mixed than product states when measured by the linear entropy. Such states cannot be discriminated by the majorization criterion.

id: quant-ph/0307193
title: Realism in Energy Transition Processes: an example from Bohmian Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Acacio de Barros, J. P. R. F. de Mendonca, N. Pinto-Neto
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Synthese, vol. 154, pp. 349--370, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307193
abstract: In this paper we study in details a system of two weakly coupled harmonic oscillators. This system may be viewed as a simple model for the interaction between a photon and a photodetector. We obtain exact solutions for the general case. We then compute approximate solutions for the case of a single photon (where one oscillator is initially in its first excited state) reaching a photodetector in its ground state (the other oscillator). The approximate solutions represent the state of both the photon and the photodetector after the interaction, which is not an eigenstate of the individual hamiltonians for each particle, and therefore the energies for each particle do not exist in the Copenhagen interpretation of Quantum Mechanics. We use the approximate solutions that we obtained to compute bohmian trajectories and to study the energy transfer between the two particles. We conclude that even using the bohmian view the energy of each individual particle is not well defined, as the nonlocal quantum potential is not negligible even after the coupling is turned off.

id: quant-ph/0307194
title: Squeezing and entanglement in continous variable systems
authors: Yun-Jie Xia, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307194
abstract: Based on total variance of a pair of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type operators, the generalized EPR entangled states in continuous variable systems are defined. We show that such entangled states must correspond with two-mode squeezing states whether these states are Gaussian or not and whether they are pure or not. With help of the relation between the total variance and the entanglement, the degree of such entanglement is also defined. Through analyzing some specific cases, we see that this method is very convenient and easy in practical application. In addition, an entangled state with no squeezing is studied, which reveals that there certainly exist something unknown about entanglement in continuous variable systems.

id: quant-ph/0307195
title: Nonrelativistic system of interacting particles in the model of the noncommutative operators of coordinates and momenta of different particles
authors: M. V. Kuzmenko
comments: 24 pages, 4 PostScript figures, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307195
abstract: It is shown that the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a system of interacting particles whose Compton wavelengths are of the same order of magnitude as the system size is contradictory and is not strictly nonrelativistic, because it is based on the implicit assumption that the velocity of propagation of interactions is finite. In the framework of the model of the noncommutative operators of coordinates and momenta of different particles, the equation for a wave function which has no above-mentioned drawbacks is deduced. The significant differences from solutions of the nonrelativistic Schr\"{o}dinger equation for large values of the interaction constant are found, and the comparison of analogous results for hydrogenlike atoms with experimental data is carried out.

id: quant-ph/0307196
title: Tutorial Notes on One-Party and Two-Party Gaussian States
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Krzysztof Wdkiewicz
comments: 34 pages, 4 figures; final version
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 1, No. 2 (2003) 153-188
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307196
abstract: Gaussian states -- or, more generally, Gaussian operators -- play an important role in Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Science, both in discussions about conceptual issues and in practical applications. We describe, in a tutorial manner, a systematic operator method for first characterizing such states and then investigating their properties. The central numerical quantities are the covariance matrix that specifies the characteristic function of the state, and the closely related matrices associated with Wigner's and Glauber's phase space functions. For pedagogical reasons, we restrict the discussion to one-dimensional and two-dimensional Gaussian states, for which we provide illustrating and instructive examples.

id: quant-ph/0307197
title: Quantum Teleportation with Atoms Trapped in Cavities
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 034305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307197
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement the quantum teleportation protocol with single atoms trapped in cavities. The scheme is based on the adiabatic passage and the polarization measurement. We show that it is possible to teleport the internal state of an atom trapped in a cavity to an atom trapped in another cavity with the success probability of 1/2 and the fidelity of 1. The scheme is resistant to a number of considerable imperfections such as the violation of the Lamb-Dicke condition, weak atom-cavity coupling, spontaneous emission, and detection inefficiency.

id: quant-ph/0307198
title: A de Finetti Representation Theorem for Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack, Petra F. Scudo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307198
abstract: In quantum process tomography, it is possible to express the experimenter's prior information as a sequence of quantum operations, i.e., trace-preserving completely positive maps. In analogy to de Finetti's concept of exchangeability for probability distributions, we give a definition of exchangeability for sequences of quantum operations. We then state and prove a representation theorem for such exchangeable sequences. The theorem leads to a simple characterization of admissible priors for quantum process tomography and solves to a Bayesian's satisfaction the problem of an unknown quantum operation.

id: quant-ph/0307199
title: Collective vs local measurements in qubit mixed state estimation
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, R. Munoz-Tapia, A. Rodriguez
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor style changes, refs. added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 010304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307199
abstract: We discuss the problem of estimating a general (mixed) qubit state. We give the optimal guess that can be inferred from any given set of measurements. For collective measurements and for a large number $N$ of copies, we show that the error in the estimation goes as 1/N. For local measurements we focus on the simpler case of states lying on the equatorial plane of the Bloch sphere. We show that standard tomographic techniques lead to an error proportional to $1/N^{1/4}$, while with our optimal data processing it is proportional to $1/N^{3/4}$.

id: quant-ph/0307200
title: Generalized Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Sudhir Kumar Singh, R. Srikanth
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A., 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307200
abstract: We explore a generalization of quantum secret sharing (QSS) in which classical shares play a complementary role to quantum shares, exploring further consequences of an idea first studied by Nascimento, Mueller-Quade and Imai (Phys. Rev. {\bf A64} 042311 (2001)). We examine three ways, termed inflation, compression and twin-thresholding, by which the proportion of classical shares can be augmented. This has the important application that it reduces quantum (information processing) players by replacing them with their classical counterparts, thereby making quantum secret sharing considerably easier and less expensive to implement in a practical setting. In compression, a QSS scheme is turned into an equivalent scheme with fewer quantum players, compensated for by suitable classical shares. In inflation, a QSS scheme is enlarged by adding only classical shares and players. In a twin-threshold scheme, we invoke two separate thresholds for classical and quantum shares based on the idea of information dilution.

id: quant-ph/0307201
title: A Preliminar Evidence of Quantum Like Behavior in Measurements of Mental States
authors: Elio Conte, Orlando Todarello, Antonio Federici, Francesco Vitiello, Michele Lopane, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: NeuroQuantol.6:126-139,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307201
abstract: Experimental results presented in this paper supports the hypothesis on quantum-like statistical behaviour of cognitive systems (at least human beings). Our quantum-like approach gives the possibility to represent mental states by Hilbert space vectors (complex amplitudes). Such a representation induces huge reduction of information about a mental state. We realize an approach that has no direct relation with reductionist quantum models and we are not interested in statistical behavior of micro systems forming the macro system of the brain. We describe only probabilistic features of cognitive measurements. Our quantum-like approach describes statistics of measurements of cognitive systems with the aim to ascertain if cognitive systems behave as quantum-like systems where here quantum-like cognitive behavior means that cognitive systems result to be very sensitive to changes of the context with regard to the complex of the mental conditions.

id: quant-ph/0307202
title: Quasi-paraxial theory for coupled unstable cavities I: formal development
authors: A. Aiello, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307202
abstract: We present a formal wave theory for the calculation of the spectrum and the eigenmodes for a certain class of ray-chaotic optical cavities introduced by A. Aiello, M. P. van Exter, and J. P. Woerdman [quant-ph/0307119].

id: quant-ph/0307203
title: An algebraic solution of driven single band tight binding dynamics
authors: H. J. Korsch. S. Mossmann
comments: 13 pages; revised version (changed title and sections 6,7, added references)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 317 (2003) 54-63
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307203
abstract: The dynamics of the driven tight binding model for Wannier-Stark systems is formulated and solved using a dynamical algebra. This Lie algebraic approach is very convenient for evaluating matrix elements and expectation values. It is also shown that a dynamical invariant can be constructed. A classicalization of the tight binding model is discussed as well as some illustrating examples of Bloch oscillations and dynamical localization effects.

id: quant-ph/0307204
title: Universal ultrabright source of entangled photon states: generation and tomographic analysis of Werner states and of Maximally Entangled Mixed States
authors: G. Di Nepi, F. De Martini, M. Barbieri, P. Mataloni
comments: 28 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307204
abstract: A novel ultrabright parametric source of polarization entangled photon pairs with striking spatial characteristics is reported. The distribution of the output electromagnetic k-modes excited by Spontaneous Parametris Down Conversion and coupled to the output detectors can be very broad. It could coincide with the full set of phase-matched excited modes, at least in principle. In this case a relevant conditional quasi-pure output state should be realized. By these (approximate) states realized over a full Entanglement-Ring output distribution, the non local properties of the generated entanglement has been tested by standard Bell measurements and by Ou-Mandel interferometry. A novel ''mode-patchwork'' technique based on the quantum superposition principle is adopted to synthesize in a straightforward and reliable way any kind of mixed-states, of large conceptual and technological interest in modern Quantum Information. Tunable Werner states and Maximally Entangled Mixed States (MEMS) have indeed been created by the new technique and investigated by quantum tomography. A thorough study of the entropic and nonlocal properties of these states has been undertaken experimentally and theoretically, by a unifying variational approach.

id: quant-ph/0307205
title: Self testing quantum apparatus
authors: Dominic Mayers, Andrew Yao
comments: Added 3 references; 10 pages (Revtex); The proof was simplified
journal: Self testing quantum apparatus, QIC, Vol.4 No. 4 July 5, 2004 (pp273-286)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307205
abstract: We study a configuration of devices that includes (1) a source of some unknown bipartite quantum state that is claimed to be the Bell state $\Phi^+$ and (2) two commuting but otherwise unknown measurement apparatus, one on each side, that are each claimed to execute an orthogonal measurement at an angle $\theta \in \{0, \pi/8, \pi/4\}$ that is chosen by the user. We show that, if the nine distinct probability distributions that are generated by the self checking configuration, one for each pair of angles, are consistent with the specifications, the source and the two measurement apparatus are guaranteed to be identical modulo some isomorphism to the claimed specifications. We discuss the connection with quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0307206
title: Strong subadditivity inequality for quantum entropies and four-particle entanglement
authors: Asoka Biswas, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 054303 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307206
abstract: Strong subadditivity inequality for a three-particle composite system is an important inequality in quantum information theory which can be studied via a four-particle entangled state. We use two three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration interacting with a two-mode cavity and the Raman adiabatic passage technique for the production of the four-particle entangled state. Using this four-particle entanglement, we study for the first time various aspects of the strong subadditivity inequality.

id: quant-ph/0307207
title: Information transfer through a one-atom micromaser
authors: Animesh Datta, Biplab Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: Revtex, 5 pages, 2 encapsulated ps figures; added discussion on information transfer in relation with cavity photon statistics; typos corrected; Accepted for Publicaiton in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307207
abstract: We consider a realistic model for the one-atom micromaser consisting of a cavity maintained in a steady state by the streaming of two-level Rydberg atoms passing one at a time through it. We show that it is possible to monitor the robust entanglement generated between two successive experimental atoms passing through the cavity by the control decoherence parameters. We calculate the entanglement of formation of the joint two-atom state as a function of the micromaser pump parameter. We find that this is in direct correspondence with the difference of the Shannon entropy of the cavity photons before and after the passage of the atoms for a reasonable range of dissipation parameters. It is thus possible to demonstrate information transfer between the cavity and the atoms through this set-up.

id: quant-ph/0307208
title: Qubit Rotation by STIRAP
authors: Z. Kis, F. Renzoni
comments: Revtex4 document, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A 65, 032318 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307208
abstract: We introduce a novel procedure for qubit rotation, alternative to the commonly used method of Rabi oscillations of controlled pulse area. It is based on the technique of Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) and therefore it is robust against fluctuations of experimental parameters. Furthermore, our work shows that it is in principle possible to perform quantum logic operations via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. This opens up the search for a completely new class of schemes to implement logic gates.

id: quant-ph/0307209
title: Enhanced Nonlinear Generation in a Three-Level Medium with Spatially Dependent Coherence
authors: E. Paspalakis, Z. Kis
comments: Revtex4 document, 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Letters 27, 1836 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307209
abstract: We consider a method for efficient parametric generation of a laser pulse. A single laser field is injected to a three-level medium which has two lower states and one excited state. The lower states are prepared initially in a position-dependent coherent superposition state. It is shown that by proper choice of the position dependence of the superposition along the direction of propagation, the incoming field can be converted completely to a new field.

id: quant-ph/0307210
title: Tomography of entangled massive particles
authors: C.F.Roos, G.P.T.Lancaster, M.Riebe, H.Haeffner, W.Haensel, S.Gulde, C.Becher, J.Eschner, F.Schmidt-Kaler, R.Blatt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307210
abstract: We report on tomographic means to study the stability of a qubit register based on a string of trapped ions. In our experiment, two ions are held in a linear Paul trap and are entangled deterministically by laser pulses that couple their electronic and motional states. We reconstruct the density matrix using single qubit rotations and subsequent measurements with near-unity detection efficiency. This way, we characterize the created Bell states, the states into which they subsequently decay, and we derive their entanglement, applying different entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0307211
title: Quantized phase shifts and a dispersive universal quantum gate
authors: F.Schmidt-Kaler, H.Haeffner, S.Gulde, M.Riebe, G.Lancaster, J.Eschner, C.Becher, R.Blatt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307211
abstract: A single 40Ca+ ion is trapped and laser cooled to its motional ground state. Laser radiation which couples off-resonantly to a motional sideband of the ion's S1/2 to D5/2 transition causes a phase shift proportional to the ion's motional quantum state |n>. As the phase shift is conditional upon the ion's motion, we are able to demonstrate a universal 2-qubit quantum gate operation where the electronic target state {S,D} is flipped depending on the motional qubit state |n>={|0>,|1>}. Finally, we discuss scaling properties of this universal quantum gate for linear ion crystals and present numerical simulations for the generation of a maximally entangled state of five ions.

id: quant-ph/0307212
title: Hyperentanglement-assisted Bell-state analysis
authors: S. P. Walborn, S. Pdua, C. H. Monken
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307212
abstract: We propose a simple scheme for complete Bell-state measurement of photons using hyperentangled states - entangled in multiple degrees of freedom. In addition to hyperentanglement, our scheme requires only linear optics and single photon detectors, and is realizable with current technology. At the cost of additional classical communication, our Bell-state measurement can be implemented non-locally. We discuss the possible application of these results to quantum dense coding and quantum teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0307213
title: Dynamical Properties of the Delta Kicked Harmonic Oscillator
authors: G.A. Kells, J. Twamley, D. M. Heffernan
comments: RevTex, 11 eps figures 1,2,3,4(a)(b)(c)(d),5(a)(b)(c)(d). Added references. Altered introduction to include relevence to experimental models and quantum information processors
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 70, 015203(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307213
abstract: We propose an efficient procedure for numerically evolving the Delta Kicked Harmonic Oscillator. The method allows for longer and more accurate simulations of the system as well as a simple procedure for calculating the systems Floquet eigenstates and quasi-energies. The method is used to examine the dynamical behaviour of the system in cases where the ratio of the kicking frequency to the systems natural frequency is both rational and irrational.

id: quant-ph/0307214
title: Suppression of Dephasing of Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: M. F. Andersen, A. Kaplan, T. Grnzweig, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307214
abstract: Ultra-cold atoms trapped in an optical dipole trap and prepared in a coherent superposition of their hyperfine ground states, decohere as they interact with their environment. We demonstrate than the loss in coherence in an "echo" experiment, which is caused by mechanisms such as Rayleigh scattering, can be suppressed by the use of a new pulse sequence. We also show that the coherence time is then limited by mixing to other vibrational levels in the trap and by the finite lifetime of the internal quantum states of the atoms.

id: quant-ph/0307215
title: Special reduction of density matrixes and entanglement between two bunches of particles
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: REVTeX, 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307215
abstract: By using of a special reduction way of density matrices, in this Letter we find the entanglement between two bunches of particles, its measure can be represented by the entanglement of formation.

id: quant-ph/0307216
title: Atoms, dipole waves, and strongly focused light beams
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev.A 69, 043813 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307216
abstract: We describe the resonant interaction of an atom with a strongly focused light beam by expanding the field in multipole waves. For a classical field, or when the field is described by a coherent state, we find that both intensity pattern and photon statistics of the scattered light are fully determined by a small set of parameters. One crucial parameter is the overlap of the field with the appropriate dipole wave corresponding to the relevant dipole transition in the atom. We calculate this overlap for a particular set of strongly focused longitudinally polarized light beams, whose spot size is only $0.1\lambda^2$, as discussed in S. Quabis, et al., Appl. Phys. B {\bf 72}, 109 (2001).

id: quant-ph/0307217
title: The chaotic chameleon
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: v.2: 7pp; conjecture 1 disproved by Gisin & Gisin (1999) but which leads to new open problems and conjectures. v.3: minor correction and addition. To appear in proceedings of "Quantum Probability and Infinite Dimensional Analysis", Greifswald, 2003; World Scientific. v.4: major revision in view of solution of another conjecture by Larsson & Gill (2003)
journal: pp. 269--276 in: M. Sch"urmann and U. Franz (eds.), Quantum Probability and Infinite Dimensional Analysis: from Foundations to Applications. QP--PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Volume 18 (2005). World Scientific.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307217
abstract: Various local hidden variables models for the singlet correlations exploit the detection loophole, or other loopholes connected with post-selection on coincident arrival times. I consider the connection with a probabilistic simulation technique called rejection-sampling, and pose some natural questions concerning what can be achieved and what cannot be achieved with local (or distributed) rejection sampling. In particular a new and more serious loophole, which we call the coincidence loophole, is introduced.

id: quant-ph/0307218
title: Manifold of density matrices
authors: Aik-meng Kuah, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307218
abstract: We show that the manifold of density matrices can be derived from CP^{N^2-1} by the action of SU(N). We give some preliminary observations on the structure of this manifold.

id: quant-ph/0307219
title: Geometric measure of entanglement and applications to bipartite and multipartite quantum states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, this is a combination of three previous manuscripts (quant-ph/0212030, quant-ph/0303079, and quant-ph/0303158) made more extensive and coherent. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 042307 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307219
abstract: The degree to which a pure quantum state is entangled can be characterized by the distance or angle to the nearest unentangled state. This geometric measure of entanglement, already present in a number of settings (see Shimony 1995 and Barnum and Linden 2001), is explored for bipartite and multipartite pure and mixed states. The measure is determined analytically for arbitrary two-qubit mixed states and for generalized Werner and isotropic states, and is also applied to certain multipartite mixed states. In particular, a detailed analysis is given for arbitrary mixtures of three-qubit GHZ, W and inverted-W states. Along the way, we point out connections of the geometric measure of entanglement with entanglement witnesses and with the Hartree approximation method.

id: quant-ph/0307220
title: A Lattice Problem in Quantum NP
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Oded Regev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307220
abstract: We consider coGapSVP_\sqrt{n}, a gap version of the shortest vector in a lattice problem. This problem is known to be in AM\cap coNP but is not known to be in NP or in MA. We prove that it lies inside QMA, the quantum analogue of NP. This is the first non-trivial upper bound on the quantum complexity of a lattice problem. The proof relies on two novel ideas. First, we give a new characterization of QMA, called QMA+. Working with the QMA+ formulation allows us to circumvent a problem which arises commonly in the context of QMA: the prover might use entanglement between different copies of the same state in order to cheat. The second idea involves using estimations of autocorrelation functions for verification. We make the important observation that autocorrelation functions are positive definite functions and using properties of such functions we severely restrict the prover's possibility to cheat. We hope that these ideas will lead to further developments in the field.

id: quant-ph/0307221
title: Superdense coding of quantum states
authors: Aram Harrow, Patrick Hayden, Debbie Leung
comments: 5 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307221
abstract: We describe a method to non-obliviously communicate a 2l-qubit quantum state by physically transmitting l+o(l) qubits of communication, and by consuming l ebits of entanglement and some shared random bits. In the non-oblivious scenario, the sender has a classical description of the state to be communicated. Our method can be used to communicate states that are pure or entangled with the sender's system; l+o(l) and 3l+o(l) shared random bits are sufficient respectively.

id: quant-ph/0307222
title: On a Rigorous Proof of the Joos-Zeh Formula for Decoherence in a Two-Body Problem
authors: Alessandro Teta
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307222
abstract: We consider a simple one dimensional system consisting of two particles interacting with a $\delta$-potential and we discuss a rigorous derivation of the asymptotic wave function of the system in the limit of small mass ratio. We apply the result to the explicit computation of the decoherence effect induced by scattering in a concrete example of quantum evolution.

id: quant-ph/0307223
title: Electromagnetically-induced transparency and light storing of a pair of pulses
authors: A. Raczynski, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: text +6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307223
abstract: Electromagnetically-induced transparency and light storing are studied in the case of a medium of atoms in a double Lambda configuration, both in terms of dark- and bright-state polatitons and atomic susceptibility. It is proven that the medium can be made transparent simultaneously for two pulses following their self-adjusting so that a condition for an adiabatic evolution has become fulfilled. Analytic formulas are given for the shapes and phases of the transmitted/stored pulses. The level of transparency can be regulated by adjusting the heights and phases of the control fields.

id: quant-ph/0307224
title: Sub and Super-Luminal Propagation of Intense Pulses in Media with Saturated and Reverse Absorption
authors: G. S. Agarwal, T. N. Dey
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 203901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307224
abstract: We develop models for the propagation of intense pulses in solid state media which can have either saturated absorption or exhibit reverse absorption . We show that the experiments of Bigelow {\it et al.}[Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 113903 (2003); Science {\bf 301}, 200 (2003).] on subluminal propagation in Ruby and superluminal propagation in Alexandrite are well explained by modelling them as three level and four level systems coupled to Maxwell equations. We present results well beyond the traditional pump-probe approach.

id: quant-ph/0307225
title: Asymptotic estimation of shift parameter of a quantum state
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 18 pages. Comments and new references are added following discussions at the Workshop "Quantum Measurement and Quantum Stochastics" at Maphysto, University of Aarhus, August 7-12, 2003, where the initial version of the paper was presented
journal: Probab. theory and appl. v. 49, N2, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307225
abstract: We develop an asymptotic theory of estimation of a shift parameter in a pure quantum state to study the relation between entangled and unentangled covariant estimates in the analytically most transparent way. After recollecting basics of estimation of shift parameter in Sec. 2, we study the structure of the optimal covariant estimate in Sec. 3, showing how entanglement comes into play for several independent trials. In Secs. 4,5 we give the asymptotics of the performance of the optimal covariant estimate comparing it with the ``semiclassical'' unentangled covariant estimation in the regular case of finite variance of the generator of the shift group. Sec. 6 is devoted to covariant estimation in the case where the regularity assumption is violated.

id: quant-ph/0307226
title: Maser and Laser Action with One Atom
authors: N. Nayak
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307226
abstract: We present a theory which can explain the micromaser as well as its optical counterpart, the microlaser, for appropriate values of dissipative parameters. We show that, in both the the cases, the cavity radiation fields can have sub-Poissonian photon statistics. We further analyse if it is possible to attain a Fock state of the radiation field. The microlaser is precluded for such analysics due to the damping of its lasing levels making transitions at optical frequencies. Hence, we focus our attention on the micromaser and our exact simulation of the dynamics shows that it is not possible to generate a Fock state of the cavity radiation field.

id: quant-ph/0307227
title: On the existence of physical transformations between sets of quantum states
authors: Anthony Chefles, Richard Jozsa, Andreas Winter
comments: Latex2e, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307227
abstract: Let A = {rho_1,...,rho_n} be a given set of quantum states. We consider the problem of finding necessary and sufficient conditions on another set B = {sigma_1,...,sigma_n} that guarantee the existence of a physical transformation taking rho_i to sigma_i for all i. Uhlmann has given an elegant such condition when both sets comprise pure states. We give a simple proof of this condition and develop some consequences. Then we consider multi-probabilistic transformations between sets of pure states which leads to conditions for the problem of transformability between A and B when one set is pure and the other is arbitrary.

id: quant-ph/0307228
title: Electron propagation in crossed magnetic and electric fields
authors: Tobias Kramer, Christian Bracher, Manfred Kleber
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, submitted
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004), 21-27
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307228
abstract: Laser-atom interaction can be an efficient mechanism for the production of coherent electrons. We analyze the dynamics of monoenergetic electrons in the presence of uniform, perpendicular magnetic and electric fields. The Green function technique is used to derive analytic results for the field--induced quantum mechanical drift motion of i) single electrons and ii) a dilute Fermi gas of electrons. The method yields the drift current and, at the same time it allows us to quantitatively establish the broadening of the (magnetic) Landau levels due to the electric field: Level number k is split into k+1 sublevels that render the $k$th oscillator eigenstate in energy space. Adjacent Landau levels will overlap if the electric field exceeds a critical strength. Our observations are relevant for quantum Hall configurations whenever electric field effects should be taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0307229
title: Objective properties from subjective quantum states: Environment as a witness
authors: Harold Ollivier, David Poulin, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, extensive changes, presentation improved
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 220401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307229
abstract: We study the emergence of objective properties in open quantum systems. In our analysis, the environment is promoted from a passive role of reservoir selectively destroying quantum coherence, to an active role of amplifier selectively proliferating information about the system. We show that only preferred pointer states of the system can leave a redundant and therefore easily detectable imprint on the environment. Observers who--as it is almost always the case--discover the state of the system indirectly (by probing a fraction of its environment) will find out only about the corresponding pointer observable. Many observers can act in this fashion independently and without perturbing the system: they will agree about the state of the system. In this operational sense, preferred pointer states exist objectively.

id: quant-ph/0307230
title: Theory of output coupling for trapped fermionic atoms
authors: P. A. S. Pires Filho, C. L. Cesar, L. Davidovich
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, added discussion on time-dependent spectral distribution and corresponding figure
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 69, 023615 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307230
abstract: We develop a dynamic theory of output coupling, for fermionic atoms initially confined in a magnetic trap. We consider an exactly soluble one-dimensional model, with a spatially localized delta-type coupling between the atoms in the trap and a continuum of free-particle external modes. Two important special cases are considered for the confinement potential: the infinite box and the harmonic oscillator. We establish that in both cases a bound state of the coupled system appears for any value of the coupling constant, implying that the trap population does not vanish in the infinite-time limit. For weak coupling, the energy spectrum of the outgoing beam exhibits peaks corresponding to the initially occupied energy levels in the trap; the height of these peaks increases with the energy. As the coupling gets stronger, the energy spectrum is displaced towards dressed energies of the fermions in the trap. The corresponding dressed states result from the coupling between the unperturbed fermionic states in the trap, mediated by the coupling between these states and the continuum. In the strong-coupling limit, there is a reinforcement of the lowest-energy dressed mode, which contributes to the energy spectrum of the outgoing beam more strongly than the other modes. This effect is especially pronounced for the one-dimensional box, which indicates that the efficiency of the mode-reinforcement mechanism depends on the steepness of the confinement potential. In this case, a quasi-monochromatic anti-bunched atomic beam is obtained. Results for a bosonic sample are also shown for comparison.

id: quant-ph/0307231
title: Simulating quantum Brownian motion with single trapped ions
authors: S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, F. Intravaia, F. Petruccione, A. Messina
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Version 2 focused on the experimental proposal for simulating QBM
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307231
abstract: We study the open system dynamics of a harmonic oscillator coupled with an artificially engineered reservoir. We single out the reservoir and system variables governing the passage between Lindblad type and non-Lindblad type dynamics of the reduced system's oscillator. We demonstrate the existence of conditions under which virtual exchanges of energy between system and reservoir take place. We propose to use a single trapped ion coupled to engineered reservoirs in order to simulate quantum Brownian motion.

id: quant-ph/0307232
title: Decay in a uniform field: an exactly solvable model
authors: R. M. Cavalcanti, P. Giacconi, R. Soldati
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures. v3: typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36, 12065 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307232
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of the decay (or ionization) probability of a D-dimensional model atom (D=1,2,3) in the presence of a uniform (i.e., static and homogeneous) background field. The model atom consists in a non-relativistic point particle in the presence of a point-like attractive well. It is shown that the model exhibits infinitely many resonances leading to possible deviations from the naive exponential decay law of the non-decay (or survival) probability of the initial atomic quantum state. Almost stable states exist due to the presence of the attractive interaction, no matter how weak it is. Analytic estimates as well as numerical evaluation of the decay rates are explicitly given and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0307233
title: Quantum Computing of Poincare Recurrences and Periodic Orbits
authors: B. Georgeot
comments: revtex, 5 pages, research at Quantware MIPS Center (see this http URL); minor changes and references added
journal: Physical Review A 69, 032301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307233
abstract: Quantum algorithms are built enabling to find Poincar\'e recurrence times and periodic orbits of classical dynamical systems. It is shown that exponential gain compared to classical algorithms can be reached for a restricted class of systems. Quadratic gain can be achieved for a larger set of dynamical systems. The simplest cases can be implemented with small number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0307234
title: Statistical Structures Underlying Quantum Mechanics and Social Science
authors: Ron Wright
comments: Talk presented at QS2002 Vienna, July 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307234
abstract: Common observations of the unpredictability of human behavior and the influence of one question on the answer to another suggest social science experiments are probabilistic and may be mutually incompatible with one another, characteristics attributed to quantum mechanics (as distinguished from classical mechanics). This paper examines this superficial similarity in depth using the Foulis-Randall Operational Statistics language. In contradistinction to physics, social science deals with complex, open systems for which the set of possible experiments is unknowable and outcome interference is a graded phenomenon resulting from the ways the human brain processes information. It is concluded that social science is, in some ways, "less classical" than quantum mechanics, but that generalized "quantum" structures may provide appropriate descriptions of social science experiments. Specific challenges to extending "quantum" structures to social science are identified.

id: quant-ph/0307235
title: Towards a Neo-Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: W.M. de Muynck
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307235
abstract: The Copenhagen interpretation is critically considered. A number of ambiguities, inconsistencies and confusions are discussed. It is argued that it is possible to purge the interpretation so as to obtain a consistent and reasonable way to interpret the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics, which is in agreement with the way this theory is dealt with in experimental practice. In particular, the essential role attributed by the Copenhagen interpretation to measurement is acknowledged. For this reason it is proposed to refer to it as a neo-Copenhagen interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0307236
title: Coherence control for qubits
authors: Karen M. Fonseca-Romero, Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Chem. Phys. 296, 307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307236
abstract: We study the influence of an external driving field on the coherence properties of a qubit under the influence of bit-flip noise. In the presence of driving, two paradigmatic cases are considered: (i) a field that results for a suitable choice of the parameters in so-called coherent destruction of tunneling and (ii) one that commutes with the static qubit Hamiltonian. In each case, we give for high-frequency driving a lower bound for the coherence time. This reveals the conditions under which the external fields can be used for coherence stabilization.

id: quant-ph/0307237
title: Strong Coupling Perturbation Theory in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 23 pages, no figure. Contribution to the volume "Progress in Mathematical Physics" to be published by Nova Science Publisher
journal: Mathematical Physics Research on the Leading Edge, Charles V. Benton (Ed.), pp. 1-19, (Nova Science Publisher, Hauppage NY, 2004), ISBN 1-59033-905-3
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307237
abstract: We present a full introduction to the recent devised perturbation theory for strong coupling in quantum mechanics. In order to put the theory in a proper historical perspective, the approach devised in quantum field theory is rapidly presented, showing how it implies a kind of duality in perturbation theory, from the start. The approach of renormalization group in perturbation theory is then presented. This method permits to resum secularities in perturbation theory and makes fully algorithmical the resummation, transforming the perturbation calculations in a step by step computational procedure. The general theorem on which is founded a proper application of the strong coupling expansion, based on a result in the quantum adiabatic theory, is then exposed. This theorem gives the leading order of a strong coupling expansion. Then, after the introduction of the principle of duality in perturbation theory that puts in a proper context the quantum field theory method, the resulting theory of the strong coupling expansion and the free picture are presented. An algorithm for the computation of the perturbation series is finally given. This approach has a lot of applications in fields as quantum optics, condensed matter and so on, extending the original expectations of the quantum field theory method. So, we give some examples of application for a class of two-level systems that, in recent years, proved to be extremely important. One of the most interesting concepts that can be obtained in this way is that of a Quantum Amplifier (QAMP) that permits to obtain an amplification to the classical level of the quantum fluctuations of the ground state of a single radiation mode.

id: quant-ph/0307238
title: Decoherence in a Talbot Lau interferometer: the influence of molecular scattering
authors: Lucia Hackermueller, Klaus Hornberger, Bjoern Brezger, Anton Zeilinger, Markus Arndt
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 77, 781-787 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307238
abstract: We study the interference of C70 fullerenes in a Talbot-Lau interferometer with a large separation between the diffraction gratings. This permits the observation of recurrences of the interference contrast both as a function of the de Broglie wavelength and in dependence of the interaction with background gases. We observe an exponential decrease of the fringe visibility with increasing background pressure and find good quantitative agreement with the predictions of decoherence theory. From this we extrapolate the limits of matter wave interferometry and conclude that the influence of collisional decoherence may be well under control in future experiments with proteins and even larger objects.

id: quant-ph/0307239
title: Low-lying spectra in anharmonic three-body oscillators with a strong short-range repulsion
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 18 pages plus 6 pages of appendices with new auxiliary identities
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 9929-9941
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307239
abstract: Three-body Schroedinger equation is studied in one dimension. Its two-body interactions are assumed composed of the long-range attraction (dominated by the L-th-power potential) in superposition with a short-range repulsion (dominated by the (-K)-th-power core) plus further subdominant power-law components if necessary. This unsolvable and non-separable generalization of Calogero model (which is a separable and solvable exception at L = K = 2) is presented in polar Jacobi coordinates. We derive a set of trigonometric identities for the potentials which generalizes the well known K=2 identity of Calogero to all integers. This enables us to write down the related partial differential Schroedinger equation in an amazingly compact form. As a consequence, we are able to show that all these models become separable and solvable in the limit of strong repulsion.

id: quant-ph/0307240
title: Quantum Information processing by NMR: Preparation of pseudopure states and implementation of unitary operations in a single-qutrit system
authors: Ranabir Das, Avik Mitra, S. Vijay Kumar, Anil Kumar
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0307240
abstract: Theoretical Quantum Information Processing (QIP) has matured from the use of qubits to the use of qudits (systems having states> 2). Where as most of the experimental implementations have been performed using qubits, little experimental work has been carried out using qudits as yet. In this paper we demonstrate experimental realization of a qutrit system by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), utilizing deuterium (spin-1) nuclei partially oriented in liquid crystalline phase. Preparation of pseudopure states and implementation of unitary operations are demonstrated in this single-qutrit system, using transition selective pulses.

id: cond-mat/0307024
title: Double quantum dot turnstile as an electron spin entangler
authors: Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: published version; minor error corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 115312 (2004); erratum ibid. 70, 159901 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307024
abstract: We study the conditions for a double quantum dot system to work as a reliable electron spin entangler, and the efficiency of a beam splitter as a detector for the resulting entangled electron pairs. In particular, we focus on the relative strengths of the tunneling matrix elements, the applied bias and gate voltage, the necessity of time-dependent input/output barriers, and the consequence of considering wavepacket states for the electrons as they leave the double dot to enter the beam splitter. We show that a double quantum dot turnstile is, in principle, an efficient electron spin entangler or entanglement filter because of the exchange coupling between the dots and the tunable input/output potential barriers, provided certain conditions are satisfied in the experimental set-up.

id: cond-mat/0307043
title: Fast entanglement of two charge-phase qubits through nonadiabatic coupling to a large junction
authors: Y. D. Wang, P. Zhang, D. L. Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307043
abstract: We propose a theoretical protocol for quantum logic gates between two Josephson junction charge-phase qubits through the control of their coupling to a large junction. In the low excitation limit of the large junction when $E_{J}\gg E_{c}$, it behaves effectively as a quantum data-bus mode of a harmonic oscillator. Our protocol is efficient and fast. In addition, it does not require the data-bus to stay adiabatically in its ground state, as such it can be implemented over a wide parameter regime independent of the data-bus quantum state.

id: cond-mat/0307103
title: Quantum teleportation by particle-hole annihilation in the Fermi sea
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, M. Kindermann
comments: 5 pages including 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92, 056801 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307103
abstract: A tunnel barrier in a degenerate electron gas was recently discovered as a source of entangled particle-hole excitations. The entanglement is produced by elastic tunneling events, without requiring electron-electron interactions. Here we investigate the inverse process, the annihilation of an electron and a hole by elastic scattering. We find that this process leads to teleportation of the (unknown) state of the annihilated electron to a second, distant electron -- if the latter was previously entangled with the annihilated hole. We propose an experiment, involving low-frequency noise measurements on a two-dimensional electron gas in a high magnetic field, to detect teleportation of electrons and holes in the two lowest Landau levels.

id: cond-mat/0307198
title: Dephasing of entangled electron-hole pairs in a degenerate electron gas
authors: J.L. van Velsen, M. Kindermann, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 7 pages with 3 figures, special style file included; To appear in a special issue on "Quantum Computation at the Atomic Scale" in Turkish Journal of Physics
journal: Turk. J. Phys. 27, 323 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307198
abstract: A tunnel barrier in a degenerate electron gas was recently discovered as a source of entangled electron-hole pairs. Here, we investigate the loss of entanglement by dephasing. We calculate both the maximal violation E_max of the Bell inequality and the degree of entanglement (concurrence) C. If the initially maximally entangled electron-hole pair is in a Bell state, then the Bell inequality is violated for arbitrary strong dephasing. The same relation E_max=2\sqrt{1+C^{2}} then holds as in the absence of dephasing. More generally, for a maximally entangled superposition of Bell states, the Bell inequality is satisfied for a finite dephasing strength and the entanglement vanishes for somewhat stronger (but still finite) dephasing strength. There is then no one-to-one relation between E_max and C.

id: cond-mat/0307199
title: Destruction of interference by many-body interactions in cold atomic Bose gases
authors: Shu Chen, Reinhold Egger
comments: 7 pages, 4 eps figures, final version, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063605 (2003)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307199
abstract: We study the effects of many-body interactions on the interference in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer for matter waves of ultracold Bose atoms. After switching off an axial trapping potential, the thermal initial wavepacket expands, and subsequently interference fringes may be observed in a circular 1D trap. These are computed for axial harmonic or $\delta$-function traps, and for interaction strengths from the Thomas-Fermi regime to the Tonks-Girardeau limit. It is shown that many-body correlations in a realistic setup destroy interference to a large degree. Analytical expressions allowing to infer the observability of phase coherence and interference are provided.

id: cond-mat/0307221
title: Continuous Measurement of Atom-Number Moments of a Bose-Einstein Condensate by Photodetection
authors: G. A. Prataviera, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: Replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 011602(R) (2004)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307221
abstract: We propose a measurement scheme that allows determination of even-moments of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) atom number, in a ring cavity, by continuous photodetection of an off-resonant quantized optical field. A fast cavity photocounting process limits the heating of atomic samples with a relatively small number of atoms, being convenient for BECs on a microchip scale applications. The measurement back-action introduces a counting-conditioned phase damping, suppressing the condensate typical collapse and revival dynamics.

id: cond-mat/0307287
title: Interference of atomic levels and superfluid -- Mott insulator phase transition in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: K.V.Krutitsky, R.Graham
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91, 240406 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307287
abstract: The superfluid -- Mott insulator phase transition in a Bose-Einstein condensate of neutral atoms with doubly degenerate internal ground states in an optical lattice is theoretically investigated. The optical lattice is created by two counterpropagating linearly polarized laser beams with the angle $\theta$ between the polarization vectors (lin-angle-lin configuration). The phase diagram of the system and the critical values of the parameters are worked out. It is shown that the sign of the detuning plays an important role and that there is a strong suppression of the Mott transition in the case of blue detuning. Varying the laser intensity and/or the angle $\theta$ one can manipulate the Mott-insulator to superfluid quantum phase transition as well as prepare the condensate in physically distinguishable "ferromagnetic" and "antiferromagnetic" superfluid states.

id: cond-mat/0307312
title: Fluctuations of radiation from a chaotic laser below threshold
authors: E.G. Mishchenko
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; expanded version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 033802 (2004).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307312
abstract: Radiation from a chaotic cavity filled with gain medium is considered. A set of coupled equations describing the photon density and the population of gain medium is proposed and solved. The spectral distribution and fluctuations of the radiation are found. The full noise is a result of a competition between positive correlations of photons with equal frequencies (due to stimulated emission and chaotic scattering) which increase fluctuations, and a suppression due to interaction with a gain medium which leads to negative correlations between photons. The latter effect is responsible for a pronounced suppression of the photonic noise as compared to the linear theory predictions.

id: cond-mat/0307385
title: Energy-time entanglement of quasi-particles in solid-state devices
authors: Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin, Sandu Popescu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 167901 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307385
abstract: We present a proposal for the experimental observation of energy-time entanglement of quasi-particles in mesoscopic physics. This type of entanglement arises whenever correlated particles are produced at the same time and this time is uncertain in the sense of quantum uncertainty, as has been largely used in photonics. We discuss its feasibility for electron-hole pairs. In particular, we argue that the recently fabricated 2DEG-2DHG junctions, irradiated with a continuous laser, behave as "entanglers" for energy-time entanglement.

id: cond-mat/0307393
title: Dispersive Manipulation of Paired Superconducting Qubits
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Michael Wulf, Zhengwei Zhou, Guangcan Guo, Marc J. Feldman
comments: 5 pages, incl. 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307393
abstract: We combine the ideas of qubit encoding and dispersive dynamics to enable robust and easy quantum information processing (QIP) on paired superconducting charge boxes sharing a common bias lead. We establish a decoherence free subspace on these and introduce universal gates by dispersive interaction with a LC resonator and inductive couplings between the encoded qubits. These gates preserve the code space and only require the established local symmetry and the control of the voltage bias.

id: cond-mat/0307437
title: Optical Generation and Quantitative Characterizations of Electron-hole Entanglement
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 8 pages. Journal version
journal: Physical Review A 69, 032318 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307437
abstract: Using a method of characterizing entanglement in the framework of quantum field theory, we investigate the optical generation and quantitative characterizations of quantum entanglement in an electron-hole system, in presence of spin-orbit coupling, and especially make a theoretical analysis of a recent experimental result. Basically, such entanglement should be considered as between occupation numbers of single particle basis states, and is essentially generated by coupling between different single particle basis states in the second quantized Hamiltonian. Interaction with two resonant light modes of different circular polarizations generically leads to a superposition of ground state and two heavy-hole excitonic states. When and only when the state is a superposition of only the two excitonic eigenstates, the entanglement reduces to that between two distinguishable particles, each with two degrees of freedom, namely, band index, as characterized by angular momentum, and orbit, as characterized by position or momentum. The band-index state, obtained by tracing over the orbital degree of freedom, is found to be a pure state, hence the band-index and orbital degrees of freedom are separated in this state. We propose some basic ideas on spatially separating the electron and the hole, so that the entanglement of band-indices, or angular momenta, is between spatially separated electron and hole.

id: cond-mat/0307473
title: Two-particle Aharonov-Bohm effect and Entanglement in the electronic Hanbury Brown Twiss setup
authors: P. Samuelsson, E.V. Sukhorukov, M. Buttiker
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, discussion of postselected electron-electron entanglement added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 026805 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307473
abstract: We analyze a Hanbury Brown Twiss geometry in which particles are injected from two independent sources into a mesoscopic electrical conductor. The set-up has the property that all partial waves end in different reservoirs without generating any single particle interference. There is no single particle Aharonov-Bohm effect. However, exchange effects lead to two-particle Aharonov-Bohm oscillations in current correlations. We demonstrate that the two-particle Aharonov-Bohm effect is connected to orbital entanglement which can be used for violation of a Bell Inequality.

id: cond-mat/0307546
title: Thermally Induced Losses in Ultra-Cold Atoms Magnetically Trapped Near Room-Temperature Surfaces
authors: D.M. Harber, J.M. McGuirk, J.M. Obrecht, E.A. Cornell
comments: Improved theory curve eliminates discrepancy. JLTP in press
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307546
abstract: We have measured magnetic trap lifetimes of ultra-cold Rb87 atoms at distances of 5-1000 microns from surfaces of conducting metals with varying resistivity. Good agreement is found with a theoretical model for losses arising from near-field magnetic thermal noise, confirming the complications associated with holding trapped atoms close to conducting surfaces. A dielectric surface (silicon) was found in contrast to be so benign that we are able to evaporatively cool atoms to a Bose-Einstein condensate by using the surface to selectively adsorb higher energy atoms.

id: cond-mat/0307585
title: Pulsed Raman output coupler for an atom laser
authors: J. Ruostekoski, T. Gasenzer, D. A. W. Hutchinson
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 011604(R)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307585
abstract: We theoretically study a pulsed stimulated two-photon Raman outcoupler for an atom laser using a full three-dimensional description. A finite-temperature trapped Bose-condensed atomic gas is treated self-consistently by the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov equations. The model is closely related to a recent experiment on optical outcoupling [E.W. Hagley et al., Science 283, 1706 (1999)]. We analyze the momentum distribution of the output atoms and show how the output beam may be used as a probe of the quantum state for the trapped atomic gas and how it could be engineered and controlled in a nonlinear way.

id: cond-mat/0307651
title: Monopole core instability and Alice rings in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J. Ruostekoski, J. R. Anglin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91 (2003) 190402; Erratum-ibid. 97 (2006) 069902
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307651
abstract: We show how the length scale hierarchy, resulting from different interaction strengths in an optically-trapped spin-1 sodium-23 Bose-Einstein condensate, can lead to intriguing core deformations in singular topological defects. In particular, a point defect can be unstable with respect to the formation of a stable half-quantum vortex ring (an Alice ring), providing a realistic scheme to use dissipation as a sophisticated state engineering tool. We compute the threshold for stability of the point monopole, which is beyond the current experimental regime.

id: cond-mat/0307668
title: Quantum escape of the phase in a strongly driven Josephson junction
authors: M. V. Fistul, A. Wallraff, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Physical Review B (Rapid Communication)
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307668
abstract: A quantum mechanical analysis of the Josephson phase escape in the presence of both dc and ac bias currents is presented. We find that the potential barrier for the escape of the phase is effectively suppressed as the resonant condition occurs, i.e. when the frequency $\omega$ of the ac bias matches the Josephson junction energy level separation. This effect manifests itself by a pronounced drop in the dependence of the switching current $I_s$ on the power $W$ of the applied microwave radiation and by a peculiar double-peak structure in the switching current distribution $P(I_s)$. The developed theory is in a good accord with an experiment which we also report in this paper. The obtained features can be used to characterize certain aspects of the quantum-mechanical behavior of the Josephson phase, such as the energy level quantization, the Rabi frequency of coherent oscillations and the effect of damping.

id: cond-mat/0307669
title: Optical Detection of Single-Electron Spin Decoherence in a Quantum Dot
authors: Oliver Gywat, Hans-Andreas Engel, Daniel Loss, R. J. Epstein, F. M. Mendoza, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, v2: minor changes and added references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 205303 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307669
abstract: We propose a method based on optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) to measure the decoherence time $T_{2}$ of a single electron spin in a semiconductor quantum dot. The electron spin resonance (ESR) of a single excess electron on a quantum dot is probed by circularly polarized laser excitation. Due to Pauli blocking, optical excitation is only possible for one of the electron-spin states. The photoluminescence is modulated due to the ESR which enables the measurement of electron spin decoherence. We study different possible schemes for such an ODMR setup.

id: cond-mat/0307679
title: An asymptotical von-Neumann measurement strategy for solid-state qubits
authors: F.K. Wilhelm
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication as a rapid communication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307679
abstract: A measurement on a macroscopic quantum system does in general not lead to a projection of the wavefunction in the basis of the detector as predicted by von-Neumann's postulate. Hence, it is a question of fundametal interest, how the preferred basis onto which the state is projected is selected out of the macroscopic Hilbert space of the system. Detector-dominated von-Neumann measurements are also desirable for both quantum computation and verification of quantum mechanics on a macroscopic scale. The connection of these questions to the predictions of the spin-boson modelis outlined. I propose a measurement strategy, which uses the entanglement of the qubit with a weakly damped harmonic oscillator. It is shown, that the degree of entanglement controls the degree of renormalization of the qubit and identify, that this is equivalent to the degree to which the measurement is detector-dominated. This measurement very rapidly decoheres the initial state, but the thermalization is slow. The implementation in Josephson quantum bits is described and it is shown that this strategy also has practical advantages for the experimental implementation.

id: cond-mat/0307698
title: On observability of Renyi's entropy
authors: Petr Jizba, Toshihico Arimitsu
comments: 18 pages, 1 EPS figure, REVTeX, minor changes, accepted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys.Rev. E69 (2004) 026128
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307698
abstract: Despite recent claims we argue that Renyi's entropy is an observable quantity. It is shown that, contrary to popular belief, the reported domain of instability for Renyi entropies has zero measure (Bhattacharyya measure). In addition, we show the instabilities can be easily emended by introducing a coarse graining into an actual measurement. We also clear up doubts regarding the observability of Renyi's entropy in (multi--)fractal systems and in systems with absolutely continuous PDF's.

id: cond-mat/0307721
title: Dirac monopoles and dipoles in ferromagnetic spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: C. M. Savage, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 043604
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307721
abstract: We investigate a radial spin hedgehog, analogous to the Dirac monopole, in an optically trapped atomic spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate. By joining together a monopole-antimonopole pair, we may form a vortex line with free ends. We numerically simulate the three-dimensional dynamics and imaginary time relaxation of these structures to nonsingular textures and show they can be observable for realistic experimental parameters.

id: cond-mat/0307727
title: Continuous quantum measurement: inelastic tunnelling suppresses current oscillations
authors: T. M. Stace, S. D. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 136802 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307727
abstract: We study the dynamics of a charge qubit, consisting of a single electron in a double well potential coupled to a point-contact (PC) electrometer, using the quantum trajectories formalism. Contrary to previous predictions, we show formally that, in the sub-Zeno limit, coherent oscillations in the detector output are suppressed, and the dynamics is dominated by inelastic processes in the PC. Furthermore, these reduce the detector efficiency and induce relaxation even when the source-drain bias is zero. This is of practical significance since it means the detector will act as a source of decoherence. Finally, we show that the sub-Zeno dynamics is divided into two regimes: low- and high-bias in which the PC current power spectra show markedly different behaviour.

id: cond-mat/0307752
title: Universality of the Lyapunov regime for the Loschmidt echo
authors: Fernando M. Cucchietti, Horacio M. Pastawski, Rodolfo A. Jalabert
comments: 33 pages, 17 figures, uses Revtex 4
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307752
abstract: The Loschmidt echo (LE) is a magnitude that measures the sensitivity of quantum dynamics to perturbations in the Hamiltonian. For a certain regime of the parameters, the LE decays exponentially with a rate given by the Lyapunov exponent of the underlying classically chaotic system. We develop a semiclassical theory, supported by numerical results in a Lorentz gas model, which allows us to establish and characterize the universality of this Lyapunov regime. In particular, the universality is evidenced by the semiclassical limit of the Fermi wavelength going to zero, the behavior for times longer than Ehrenfest time, the insensitivity with respect to the form of the perturbation and the behavior of individual (non-averaged) initial conditions. Finally, by elaborating a semiclassical approximation to the Wigner function, we are able to distinguish between classical and quantum origin for the different terms of the LE. This approach renders an understanding for the persistence of the Lyapunov regime after the Ehrenfest time, as well as a reinterpretation of our results in terms of the quantum--classical transition.

id: cond-mat/0307771
title: Ground-state properties of artificial bosonic atoms, Bose interaction blockade and the single-atom pipette
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley, Ryan M. Kalas
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 063401 (2004)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0307771
abstract: We analyze the ground-state properties of an artificial atom made out of repulsive bosons attracted to a center for the case that all the interactions are short-ranged. Such bosonic atoms could be created by optically trapping ultracold particles of alkali vapors; we present the theory describing how their properties depend on experimentally adjustable strength of ``nuclear'' attraction and interparticle repulsion. The binding ability of the short-range potential increases with space dimensionality - only a limited number of particles can be bound in one dimension, while in two and three dimensions the number of bound bosons can be chosen at will. Particularly in three dimensions we find an unusual effect of enhanced resonant binding: for not very strong interparticle repulsion the equilibrium number of bosons bound to a nuclear potential having a sufficiently shallow single-particle state increases without bound as the nuclear potential becomes less attractive. As a consequence of the competing nuclear attraction enhanced by the Bose statistics and interparticle repulsions, the dependence of the ground-state energy of the atom on the number of particles has a minimum whose position is experimentally tunable. This implies a staircase dependence of the equilibrium number of bound bosons on external parameters which may be used to create a single-atom pipette - an arrangement which allows the transport of atoms into and out of a reservoir, one at a time.

id: gr-qc/0307043
title: The Effects of Stress Tensor Fluctuations upon Focusing
authors: J. Borgman, L.H. Ford
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure, new material added in Sect. III and in Appendices B and C
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 064032
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0307043
abstract: We treat the gravitational effects of quantum stress tensor fluctuations. An operational approach is adopted in which these fluctuations produce fluctuations in the focusing of a bundle of geodesics. This can be calculated explicitly using the Raychaudhuri equation as a Langevin equation. The physical manifestation of these fluctuations are angular blurring and luminosity fluctuations of the images of distant sources. We give explicit results for the case of a scalar field on a flat background in a thermal state.

id: gr-qc/0307060
title: Asymptotic quasinormal mode spectrum of rotating black holes
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0307060
abstract: Motivated by novel results in the theory of black-hole quantization, we study {\it analytically} the quasinormal modes (QNM) of ({\it rotating}) Kerr black holes. The black-hole oscillation frequencies tend to the asymptotic value $\omega_n=m\Omega+i2\pi T_{BH}n$ in the $n \to \infty$ limit. This simple formula is in agreement with Bohr's correspondence principle. Possible implications of this result to the area spectrum of quantum black holes are discussed.

id: gr-qc/0307089
title: The spectrum of quantum black holes and quasinormal modes
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 044012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0307089
abstract: The spectrum of multiple level transitions of the quantum black hole is considered, and the line widths calculated. Initial evidence is found for these higher order transitions in the spectrum of quasinormal modes for Schwarzschild and Kerr black holes, further bolstering the idea that there exists a correspondence principle between quantum transitions and classical ``ringing modes''. Several puzzles are noted, including a fine-tuning problem between the line width and the level degeneracy. A more general explanation is provided for why setting the Immirzi parameter of loop quantum gravity from the black hole spectrum necessarily gives the correct value for the black hole entropy.

id: hep-ph/0307047
title: Quantitative duality and neutral kaon interferometry in CPLEAR experiments
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages
journal: Eur.Phys.J. C32 (2004) 377-380
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0307047
abstract: A quantitative formulation of Bohr's complementarity principle and interferometric duality is discussed and applied to the neutral kaon system. Recent measurements by the CPLEAR Collaboration can be easily interpreted in terms of ``neutral kaon interferometry'' illustrating and confirming those basic principles of quantum mechanics.

id: hep-ph/0307359
title: Flavor Mixing and CP Violation of Massive Neutrinos
authors: Zhi-zhong Xing
comments: Invited review. LaTex 76 pages (14 PS figures included)
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A19 (2004) 1-80
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0307359
abstract: We present an overview of recent progress in the phenomenological study of neutrino masses, lepton flavor mixing and CP violation. We concentrate on the model-independent properties of massive neutrinos, both in vacuum and in matter. Current experimental constraints on the neutrino mass spectrum and the lepton flavor mixing parameters are summarized. The Dirac- and Majorana-like phases of CP violation, which are associated respectively with the long-baseline neutrino oscillations and the neutrinoless double beta decay, are discussed in detail. The seesaw mechanism, the leptogenesis scenario and the strategies to construct lepton mass matrices are briefly described. The features of flavor mixing between one sterile neutrino and three active neutrinos are also explored.

id: hep-ph/0307381
title: Decay Probability Ratio of Pentaquark Theta^+ State
authors: Xun Chen, Yajun Mao, Bo-Qiang Ma
comments: 8 latex pages, version for publication, a typo corrected
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A19:2289-2298,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0307381
abstract: The pentaquark state of $\Theta^{+}(uudd\bar{s})$ has been observed to decay with two decay modes: $\Theta^+\to n K^+$ and $\Theta^+ \to p K^0$. The decay probability ratio of the two decay modes is studied with general symmetry consideration of isospin, spin, and parity. We arrive at a result of the ratio $\frac{\Gamma(\Theta^+\to nK^+)}{\Gamma(\Theta^+\to pK^0)} =\frac{(\alpha-\beta)^2}{(\alpha+\beta)^2}(\frac{k_1}{k_2})^{2L+1}$, which is valid for the $\Theta^+$ state to be a pure isoscalar or isovector state, or an isoscalar and isovector mixing state, or an isotensor state with mixture of isoscalar and isovector components with coefficients $\alpha$ and $\beta$. The dependence on spin and parity of the pentaquark $\Theta^+$ state is found to be small due to small difference between the center of mass decay momenta $k_1$ and $k_2$ of the two decay modes. We also provide an analysis on the constraint of the isospin of $\Theta^+$ from the absence of a peak in the $pK^+$ invariant mass distribution in the $\gamma p \to pK^+K^-$ process. Future experimental results about the decay probability ratio may provide information about the properties of the pentaquark $\Theta^+$ state.

id: hep-th/0307014
title: Unnatural Acts: Unphysical Consequences of Imposing Boundary Conditions on Quantum Fields
authors: R.L. Jaffe
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, uses aipproc.cls which is included in upload. allnew.eps replaces figures all.eps and section.eps
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307014
abstract: I examine the effect of trying to impose a Dirichlet boundary condition on a scalar field by coupling it to a static background. The zero point -- or Casimir -- energy of the field diverges in the limit that the background forces the field to vanish. This divergence cannot be absorbed into a renormalization of the parameters of the theory. As a result, the Casimir energy of a surface on which a Dirichlet boundary condition is imposed, and other quantities like the surface tension, which are obtained by deforming the surface, depend on the physical cutoffs that characterize the coupling between the field and the matter on the surface. In contrast, the energy density away from the surface and forces between rigid surfaces are finite and independent of these complications

id: hep-th/0307094
title: A New Family of N-fold Supersymmetry: Type B
authors: Artemio Gonzalez-Lopez, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 12 pages, minor types corrected, references updated, DOI added
journal: Phys.Lett. B586 (2004) 117-124
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307094
abstract: We construct a new family of N-fold supersymmetric systems which is referred to as ``type B''. A higher derivative representation of the N-fold supercharge for this new family is given by a deformation of the type A N-fold supercharge. By utilizing the same method as in the sl(2) construction of type A N-fold supersymmetry, we show that this family includes two of the quasi-solvable models of Post-Turbiner type.

id: hep-th/0307117
title: A Cosmic Lattice as the Substratum of Quantum Fields
authors: Helio Fagundes
comments: Published in 1989; now with corrections. A sequel is in preparation. Fourth version with a few new corrections
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 19 (1989) 27
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307117
abstract: A cosmology inspired structure for phase space is introduced, which leads to finitization and lattice-like discretization of position and momentum eigenvalues in a preferred, cosmic frame. Lorentz invariance is broken at very high energies, at present inaccessible. The divergent perturbation terms in quantum electrodynamics become finite and small; this could become a requirement leading to model restrictions in other perturbative theories. So the very success of the usual renormalization procedures is simply explained by their finitization, and is viewed as indicating the reality of the lattice.

id: hep-th/0307163
title: Casimir energy in the Fulling--Rindler vacuum
authors: A. A. Saharian, R. S. Davtyan, A. H. Yeranyan
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, references added, typos corrected, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 085002
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307163
abstract: The Casimir energy is evaluated for massless scalar fields under Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions, and for the electromagnetic field with perfect conductor boundary conditions on one and two infinite parallel plates moving by uniform proper acceleration through the Fulling--Rindler vacuum in an arbitrary number of spacetime dimension. For the geometry of a single plate the both regions of the right Rindler wedge, (i) on the right (RR region) and (ii) on the left (RL region) of the plate are considered. The zeta function technique is used, in combination with contour integral representations. The Casimir energies for separate RR and RL regions contain pole and finite contributions. For an infinitely thin plate taking RR and RL regions together, in odd spatial dimensions the pole parts cancel and the Casimir energy for the whole Rindler wedge is finite. In $d=3$ spatial dimensions the total Casimir energy for a single plate is negative for Dirichlet scalar and positive for Neumann scalar and the electromagnetic field. The total Casimir energy for two plates geometry is presented in the form of a sum of the Casimir energies for separate plates plus an additional interference term. The latter is negative for all values of the plates separation for both Dirichlet and Neumann scalars, and for the electromagnetic field.

id: hep-th/0307174
title: Generalized Uncertainty Principle, Extra-dimensions and Holography
authors: F. Scardigli, R. Casadio
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages, accepted for publication in Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 20 (2003) 3915-3926
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307174
abstract: We consider Uncertainty Principles which take into account the role of gravity and the possible existence of extra spatial dimensions. Explicit expressions for such Generalized Uncertainty Principles in 4+n dimensions are given and their holographic properties investigated. In particular, we show that the predicted number of degrees of freedom enclosed in a given spatial volume matches the holographic counting only for one of the available generalizations and without extra dimensions.

id: hep-th/0307228
title: Quasiexactly Solvable Potentails
authors: Nitsan Aizenshtark
comments: M.Sc. Research Thesis. 77 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307228
abstract: For quasiexactly solvable (QES) potentials a certain number of wave functions and energy levels can be analytically calculated. The complexity of an explicit calculation of the energy levels grows with the dimension of the QES sector. For a class of such systems the generating function of the secular polynomials is also an initial condition solution of the Schr\"odinger equation. This generating function is used to obtain approximate energy levels in the limit of a large QES sector. This new method combines the WKB approximation with the saddle point approximation.

id: hep-th/0307259
title: Bosonic field equations from an exact uncertainty principle
authors: Michael J.W. Hall, Kailash Kumar, Marcel Reginatto
comments: 24 pages, extended version of part (B) of hep-th/0206235, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A36:9779-9794,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307259
abstract: A Hamiltonian formalism is used to describe ensembles of fields in terms of two canonically conjugate functionals (one being the field probability density). The postulate that a classical ensemble is subject to nonclassical fluctuations of the field momentum density, of a strength determined solely by the field uncertainty, is shown to lead to a unique modification of the ensemble Hamiltonian. The modified equations of motion are equivalent to the quantum equations for a bosonic field, and thus this exact uncertainty principle provides a new approach to deriving and interpreting the properties of quantum ensembles. The examples of electromagnetic and gravitational fields are discussed. In the latter case the exact uncertainty approach specifies a unique operator ordering for the Wheeler-DeWitt and Ashtekar-Wheeler-DeWitt equations.

id: hep-th/0307261
title: Spinor Casimir densities for a spherical shell in the global monopole spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian, E. R. Bezerra de Mello
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.A37:3543,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0307261
abstract: We investigate the vacuum expectation values of the energy-momentum tensor and the fermionic condensate associated with a massive spinor field obeying the MIT bag boundary condition on a spherical shell in the global monopole spacetime. In order to do that it was used the generalized Abel-Plana summation formula. As we shall see, this procedure allows to extract from the vacuum expectation values the contribution coming from to the unbounded spacetime and explicitly to present the boundary induced parts. As to the boundary induced contribution, two distinct situations are examined: the vacuum average effect inside and outside the spherical shell. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum densities is investigated near the sphere center and surface, and at large distances from the sphere. In the limit of strong gravitational field corresponding to small values of the parameter describing the solid angle deficit in global monopole geometry, the sphere-induced expectation values are exponentially suppressed. As a special case we discuss the fermionic vacuum densities for the spherical shell on background of the Minkowski spacetime. Previous approaches to this problem within the framework of the QCD bag models have been global and our calculation is a local extension of these contributions.

id: math-ph/0307030
title: Leaky quantum wire and dots: a resonance model
authors: Pavel Exner, Sylwia Kondej
comments: Latex2e, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0307030
abstract: We discuss a model of a leaky quantum wire and a family of quantum dots described by Laplacian in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^2)$ with an attractive singular perturbation supported by a line and a finite number of points. The discrete spectrum is shown to be nonempty, and furthermore, the resonance problem can be explicitly solved in this setting; by Birman-Schwinger method it is reformulated into a Friedrichs-type model.

id: math-ph/0307044
title: Mathematics of the Quantum Zeno Effect
authors: Andreas U. Schmidt
comments: 32 pages, 1 figure, AMSLaTeX. In: Mathematical Physics Research at the Leading Edge, Charles V. Benton ed. Nova Science Publishers, Hauppauge NY, pp. 111-141, ISBN 1-59033-905-3, 2003; revision contains corrections from the published corrigenda to Reference [64]
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0307044
abstract: We present an overview of the mathematics underlying the quantum Zeno effect. Classical, functional analytic results are put into perspective and compared with more recent ones. This yields some new insights into mathematical preconditions entailing the Zeno paradox, in particular a simplified proof of Misra's and Sudarshan's theorem. We empahsise the complex-analytic structures associated to the issue of existence of the Zeno dynamics. On grounds of the assembled material, we reason about possible future mathematical developments pertaining to the Zeno paradox and its counterpart, the anti-Zeno paradox, both of which seem to be close to complete characterisations.

id: math-ph/0307047
title: Quantum Mechanics of Damped Systems II. Damping and Parabolic Potential Barrier
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45 (2004) 841-854
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0307047
abstract: We investigate the resonant states for the parabolic potential barrier known also as inverted or reversed oscillator. They correspond to the poles of meromorphic continuation of the resolvent operator to the complex energy plane. As a byproduct we establish an interesting relation between parabolic cylinder functions (representing energy eigenfunctions of our system) and a class of Gel'fand distributions used in our recent paper.

id: math-ph/0307056
title: Rotating Singular Perturbations of the Laplacian
authors: Michele Correggi, Gianfausto Dell'Antonio
comments: Minor changes, to appear in Ann. H. Poincare', 35 pages, LaTeX
journal: Ann. Henri Poincare 5 (2004) 773-808
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0307056
abstract: We study a system of a quantum particle interacting with a singular time-dependent uniformly rotating potential in 2 and 3 dimensions: in particular we consider an interaction with support on a point (rotating point interaction) and on a set of codimension 1 (rotating blade). We prove the existence of the Hamiltonians of such systems as suitable self-adjoint operators and we give an explicit expression for their unitary semigroups. Moreover we analyze the asymptotic limit of large angular velocity and we prove strong convergence of the time-dependent propagator to some one-parameter unitary group as (\omega \to \infty).

id: math/0307020
title: The Diagonal Method and Hypercomputation
authors: Toby Ord, Tien D. Kieu
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0307020
abstract: The diagonal method is often used to show that Turing machines cannot solve their own halting problem. There have been several recent attempts to show that this method also exposes either contradiction or arbitrariness in other theoretical models of computation that claim to be able to solve the halting problem for Turing machines. We show that such arguments are flawed -- a contradiction only occurs if a type of machine can compute its own diagonal function. We then demonstrate why such a situation does not occur for the methods of hypercomputation under attack and why it is unlikely to occur in any other serious methods.

id: math/0307188
title: Absolute continuity in periodic thin tubes and strongly coupled leaky wires
authors: Francois Bentosela, Pierre Duclos, Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX 2e, 10 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 65 (2003), 75-82
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0307188
abstract: Using a perturbative argument, we show that in any finite region containing the lowest transverse eigenmode, the spectrum of a periodically curved smooth Dirichlet tube in two or three dimensions is absolutely continuous provided the tube is sufficiently thin. In a similar way we demonstrate absolute continuity at the bottom of the spectrum for generalized Schr\"odinger operators with a sufficiently strongly attractive $\delta$ interaction supported by a periodic curve in $\mathbb{R}^d, d=2,3$.

id: nlin/0307001
title: Level velocity statistics of hyperbolic chaos
authors: R. Sankaranarayanan
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 325 (2004) 57-65
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0307001
abstract: A generalized version of standard map is quantized as a model of quantum chaos. It is shown that, in hyperbolic chaotic regime, second moment of quantum level velocity is $\sim 1/\hbar$ as predicted by the random matrix theory.

id: nlin/0307005
title: Recurrence of fidelity in near integrable systems
authors: R. Sankaranarayanan, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68, 036216 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0307005
abstract: Within the framework of simple perturbation theory, recurrence time of quantum fidelity is related to the period of the classical motion. This indicates the possibility of recurrence in near integrable systems. We have studied such possibility in detail with the kicked rotor as an example. In accordance with the correspondence principle, recurrence is observed when the underlying classical dynamics is well approximated by the harmonic oscillator. Quantum revivals of fidelity is noted in the interior of resonances, while classical-quantum correspondence of fidelity is seen to be very short for states initially in the rotational KAM region.

id: nlin/0307025
title: Lyapunov Spreading of Semi-classical Wave Packets for the Lorentz Gas: Theory and Applications
authors: Arseni Goussev, J. R. Dorfman
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 026225, (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0307025
abstract: We consider the quantum mechanical propagator for a particle moving in a $d$-dimensional Lorentz gas, with fixed, hard sphere scatterers. To evaluate this propagator in the semi-classical region, and for times less than the Ehrenfest time, we express its effect on an initial Gaussian wave packet in terms of quantities analogous to those used to describe the exponential separation of trajectories in the classical version of this system. This result relates the spread of the wave packet to the rate of separation of classical trajectories, characterized by positive Lyapunov exponents. We consider applications of these results, first to illustrate the behavior of the wave-packet auto-correlation functions for wave packets on periodic orbits. The auto-correlation function can be related to the fidelity, or Loschmidt echo, for the special case that the perturbation is a small change in the mass of the particle. An exact expression for the fidelity, appropriate for this perturbation, leads to an analytical result valid over very long time intervals, inversely proportional to the size of the mass perturbation. For such perturbations, we then calculate the long-time echo for semi-classical wave packets on periodic orbits. This paper also corrects an earlier calculation for a quantum echo, included in a previous version of this paper. We explain the reasons for this correction.

id: nlin/0307051
title: Coarse-Grained Probabilistic Automata Mimicking Chaotic Systems
authors: M. Falcioni, A. Vulpiani, G. Mantica, S.Pigolotti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev Lett 91, 044101 (2003)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0307051
abstract: Discretization of phase space usually nullifies chaos in dynamical systems. We show that if randomness is associated with discretization dynamical chaos may survive and be indistinguishable from that of the original chaotic system, when an entropic, coarse-grained analysis is performed. Relevance of this phenomenon to the problem of quantum chaos is discussed.

id: physics/0307037
title: Comment on Perturbation theory for Heisenberg Operators
authors: Guowu Meng
comments: 1 page, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0307037
abstract: This is a comment on Phys. Rev. A 67, 022104(2003).

id: physics/0307097
title: Nonachromaticity and reversals of topological phase as a function of wavelength
authors: Rajendra Bhandari
comments: To appear in Proceedings, 8th Rochester Conference on Coherence and Quantum Optics held at University of Rochester, June 13-16, 2001
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0307097
abstract: In an earlier work (R. Bhandari, Phys. Lett. A 204 (1995) 188), it was shown that, contrary to the property of achromaticity (independence of wavelength) usually associated with topological phases, topological phases encountered in polarization optics can, under certain conditions, show sharp changes and reversals as a function of wavelength, a phenomenon originating in the occurrence of phase singularities, earlier observed in interference experiments. It was shown that a proposed flat lens capable of focussing light with pure geometric phase shifts can switch from being convex to a concave lens or vice versa under these conditions. In this paper conditions under which such reversals can take place for small changes in wavelength are described. Some general implications of phase singularities in the physics of interference are pointed out.

