id: quant-ph/0308001
title: On linearity of separating multi-particle differential Schr?dinger operators for identical particles
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: As accepted by Journal of Mathematical Physics. Original title "Separating multi-particle differential Schroedinger operators for identical particles are necessarily linear". Some new discussion and references. Main result unchanged. Uses RevTeX 4, 9 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 45, 959 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308001
abstract: We show that hierarchies of differential Schroedinger operators for identical particles which are separating for the usual (anti-)symmetric tensor product, are necessarily linear, and offer some speculations on the source of quantum linearity.

id: quant-ph/0308002
title: Classical Motion
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 8 pages, 5 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308002
abstract: Preciously given rules allow conscious systems to be included in quantum mechanical systems. There rules are derived from the empirical experience of an observer who witnesses a quantum mechanical interaction leading to the capture of a single particle. In the present paper it is shown that purely classical changes experienced by an observer are consistent with these rules. Three different interactions are considered, two of which combine classical and quantum mechanical changes. The previously given rules support all of these cases. Key Words: brain states, conscious observer, detector, measurement, probability current, state reduction, von Neumann, wave collapse.

id: quant-ph/0308003
title: Maximally entangled mixed states: Creation and concentration
authors: Nicholas A. Peters, Joseph B. Altepeter, David A. Branning, Evan R. Jeffrey, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. \bf{92}, 133601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308003
abstract: Using correlated photons from parametric downconversion, we extend the boundaries of experimentally accessible two-qubit Hilbert space. Specifically, we have created and characterized maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS) that lie above the Werner boundary in the linear entropy-tangle plane. In addition, we demonstrate that such states can be efficiently concentrated, simultaneously increasing both the purity and the degree of entanglement. We investigate a previously unsuspected sensitivity imbalance in common state measures, i.e., the tangle, linear entropy, and fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0308004
title: Orbits of quantum states and geometry of Bloch vectors for $N$-level systems
authors: S. G. Schirmer, T. Zhang, J. V. Leahy
comments: 15 pages LaTeX, 3 figures, reformatted, slightly modified version, corrected eq.(3), to appear in J. Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 37(4), 1389-1402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308004
abstract: Physical constraints such as positivity endow the set of quantum states with a rich geometry if the system dimension is greater than two. To shed some light on the complicated structure of the set of quantum states, we consider a stratification with strata given by unitary orbit manifolds, which can be identified with flag manifolds. The results are applied to study the geometry of the coherence vector for n-level quantum systems. It is shown that the unitary orbits can be naturally identified with spheres in R^{n^2-1} only for n=2. In higher dimensions the coherence vector only defines a non-surjective embedding into a closed ball. A detailed analysis of the three-level case is presented. Finally, a refined stratification in terms of symplectic orbits is considered.

id: quant-ph/0308005
title: Appearance and Stability of Anomalously Fluctuating States in Shor's Factoring Algorithm
authors: Akihisa Ukena, Akira Shimizu
comments: 11 figures. A few discussions were added in verion 2. Version 3 is the SAME as version 2; only errors during the Web-upload were fixed. Version 4 is the publised version, in which several typos are fixed and the reference list is updated
journal: PRA 69, 022301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308005
abstract: We analyze quantum computers which perform Shor's factoring algorithm, paying attention to asymptotic properties as the number L of qubits is increased. Using numerical simulations and a general theory of the stabilities of many-body quantum states, we show the following: Anomalously fluctuating states (AFSs), which have anomalously large fluctuations of additive operators, appear in various stages of the computation. For large L, they decohere at anomalously great rates by weak noises that simulate noises in real systems. Decoherence of some of the AFSs is fatal to the results of the computation, whereas decoherence of some of the other AFSs does not have strong influence on the results of the computation. When such a crucial AFS decoheres, the probability of getting the correct computational result is reduced approximately proportional to L^2. The reduction thus becomes anomalously large with increasing L, even when the coupling constant to the noise is rather small. Therefore, quantum computations should be improved in such a way that all AFSs appearing in the algorithms do not decohere at such great rates in the existing noises.

id: quant-ph/0308006
title: Optimal Quantum Circuits for General Two-Qubit Gates
authors: Farrokh Vatan, Colin Williams
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, new title, final journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308006
abstract: In order to demonstrate non-trivial quantum computations experimentally, such as the synthesis of arbitrary entangled states, it will be useful to understand how to decompose a desired quantum computation into the shortest possible sequence of one-qubit and two-qubit gates. We contribute to this effort by providing a method to construct an optimal quantum circuit for a general two-qubit gate that requires at most 3 CNOT gates and 15 elementary one-qubit gates. Moreover, if the desired two-qubit gate corresponds to a purely real unitary transformation, we provide a construction that requires at most 2 CNOTs and 12 one-qubit gates. We then prove that these constructions are optimal with respect to the family of CNOT, y-rotation, z-rotation, and phase gates.

id: quant-ph/0308007
title: Quantum key distribution with unconditional security for all optical fiber network
authors: Osamu Hirota, Kentaro Kato, Masaki Shoma, Tsuyoshi Sasaki Usuda
comments: SPIE conference on quantum commun. Proc. SPIE no-5161
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308007
abstract: In this paper, we present an efficient implementation method of physical layer of Y-00 which can support a secure communication and a quantum key distribution (more generally key expansion) by IMDD(intensity modulation/direct detection) or FSK(frequency shift keying)optical fiber communication network. Although the general proof of the security is not yet given, a brief sketch of security analysis is shown, which involve an entanglement attack.

id: quant-ph/0308008
title: Measuring Polynomial Invariants of Multi-Party Quantum States
authors: M. S. Leifer, N. Linden, A. Winter
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4, v2 references updated
journal: Physical Review A 69, 052304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308008
abstract: We present networks for directly estimating the polynomial invariants of multi-party quantum states under local transformations. The structure of these networks is closely related to the structure of the invariants themselves and this lends a physical interpretation to these otherwise abstract mathematical quantities. Specifically, our networks estimate the invariants under local unitary (LU) transformations and under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). Our networks can estimate the LU invariants for multi-party states, where each party can have a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension and the SLOCC invariants for multi-qubit states. We analyze the statistical efficiency of our networks compared to methods based on estimating the state coefficients and calculating the invariants.

id: quant-ph/0308009
title: Quantum Teleportation: from Pure to Mixed States and Standard to Optimal
authors: S. Albeverio, S.M. Fei, W.L. Yang
comments: 19 pages
journal: Foundation of Probability and Physics-2, Vaexjoe University Press, 2003(37-56)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308009
abstract: Teleportation for pure states, mixed states with standard and optimal protocols are introduced and investigated systematically. An explicit equation governing the teleportation of finite dimensional quantum pure states by a generally given non-local entangled state is presented. For the teleportation of a mixed state with an arbitrary mixed state resource, an explicit expression is obtained for the quantum channel associated with the standard teleportation protocol. The corresponding transmission fidelity is calculated. It is shown that the standard teleportation protocol is not optimal. The optimal quantum teleportation is further studied, its fidelity is given and shown to be related to the fully entangled fraction of the quantum resource, rather than the single fraction as in the standard teleportation protocol.

id: quant-ph/0308010
title: Classical Communication Cost of Quantum Teleportation
authors: Chirag Dekate
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308010
abstract: Quantum teleportation schemes in which operations are performed before establishing the quantum channel are not constrained by resource limits set in H.K.Lo and Bennett et al. We compare the standard teleportation protocol to the one proposed by Kak on the basis of the classical communication cost. Due to its unique architecture we study the problems in implementing Kak teleportation protocol.

id: quant-ph/0308011
title: Measuring 4-local n-qubit observables could probabilistically solve PSPACE
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Decker, Thomas Beth
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308011
abstract: We consider a hypothetical apparatus that implements measurements for arbitrary 4-local quantum observables A on n qubits. The apparatus implements the ``measurement algorithm'' after receiving a classical description of A. We show that a few precise measurements, applied to a basis state would provide a probabilistic solution of PSPACE problems. The error probability decreases exponentially with the number of runs if the measurement accuracy is of the order of the spectral gaps of A. Moreover, every decision problem which can be solved on a quantum computer in T time steps can be encoded into a 4-local observable such that the solution requires only measurements of accuracy O(1/T). Provided that BQP<>PSPACE, our result shows that efficient algorithms for precise measurements of general 4-local observables cannot exist. We conjecture that the class of physically existing interactions is large enough to allow the conclusion that precise energy measurements for general many-particle systems require control algorithms with high complexity.

id: quant-ph/0308012
title: Classical capacity of the lossy bosonic channel: the exact solution
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Saikat Guha, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Horace P. Yuen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (revised version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 027902 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308012
abstract: The classical capacity of the lossy bosonic channel is calculated exactly. It is shown that its Holevo information is not superadditive, and that a coherent-state encoding achieves capacity. The capacity of far-field, free-space optical communications is given as an example.

id: quant-ph/0308013
title: Generalized Hypergeometric Coherent States
authors: T. Appl, D. H. Schiller
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308013
abstract: We introduce a large class of holomorphic quantum states by choosing their normalization functions to be given by generalized hypergeometric functions. We call them generalized hypergeometric states in general, and generalized hypergeometric coherent states in particular, if they allow a resolution of unity. Depending on the domain of convergence of the generalized hypergeometric functions, we distinguish generalized hypergeometric states on the plane, the open unit disk, and the unit circle. All states are eigenstates of suitably defined lowering operators. We then study their photon number statistics and phase properties as revealed by the Husimi and Pegg-Barnett phase distributions. On the basis of the generalized hypergeometric coherent states we introduce generalized hypergeometric Husimi distributions and corresponding phase distributions as well as new analytic representations of arbitrary quantum states in Bargmann and Hardy spaces.

id: quant-ph/0308014
title: Entangling capacities of noisy two-qubit Hamiltonians
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, incl. 2 figures. replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 010301(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308014
abstract: We show that intrinsic fluctuations in system control parameters impose limits on the ability of two-qubit (exchange) Hamiltonians to generate entanglement starting from mixed initial states. We find three classes for Gaussian and Laplacian fluctuations. For the Ising and XYZ models there are qualitatively distinct sharp entanglement-generation transitions, while the class of Heisenberg, XY, and XXZ Hamiltonians is capable of generating entanglement for any finite noise level. Our findings imply that exchange Hamiltonians are surprisingly robust in their ability to generate entanglement in the presence of noise, thus potentially reducing the need for quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0308015
title: Quantum time ordering and degeneracy. II: Coherent population transfer between degenerate states
authors: Kh. Yu. Rakhimov, Kh. Kh. Shakov, J. H. McGuire
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308015
abstract: We find conditions required to achieve complete population transfer, via coherent population trapping, from an initial state to a designated final state at a designated time in a degenerate $n$-state atom, where transitions are caused by an external interaction. In systems with degenerate states there is no time ordering. Analytic expressions have been found for transition probabilities in a degenerate $n$-state atom interacting with a strong external field that gives a common time dependence to all of the transition matrix elements. Except for solving a simple $n^{th}$ order equation to determine eigenvalues of dressed states, the method is entirely analytic. These expressions may be used to control electron populations in degenerate $n$-state atoms. Examples are given for $n=2$ and $n=3$.

id: quant-ph/0308016
title: Eigenvector Approximation Leading to Exponential Speedup of Quantum Eigenvalue Calculation
authors: Peter Jaksch, Anargyros Papageorgiou
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308016
abstract: We present an efficient method for preparing the initial state required by the eigenvalue approximation quantum algorithm of Abrams and Lloyd. Our method can be applied when solving continuous Hermitian eigenproblems, e.g., the Schroedinger equation, on a discrete grid. We start with a classically obtained eigenvector for a problem discretized on a coarse grid, and we efficiently construct, quantum mechanically, an approximation of the same eigenvector on a fine grid. We use this approximation as the initial state for the eigenvalue estimation algorithm, and show the relationship between its success probability and the size of the coarse grid.

id: quant-ph/0308017
title: Towards Lagrangian approach to quantum computations (revised)
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX 9 pages; v2, v3: minor corrections; v4: more significant revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308017
abstract: In this work is discussed possibility and actuality of Lagrangian approach to quantum computations. Finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces used in this area provide some challenge for such consideration. The model discussed here can be considered as an analogue of Weyl quantization of field theory via path integral in L. D. Faddeev's approach. Weyl quantization is possible to use also in finite-dimensional case, and some formulas may be simply rewritten with change of integrals to finite sums. On the other hand, there are specific difficulties relevant to finite case.

id: quant-ph/0308018
title: Time operator within projection evolution model
authors: Andrzej Gozdz, Mariusz Debicki
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308018
abstract: We apply the projection evolution approach to the particle detection process and calculation of the detection moment. Influence of the essential system properties on the evolution process is discussed. It is shown, that using only the projection postulate in the evolution scheme allows to understand the time as a kind of observable.

id: quant-ph/0308019
title: Tensor of coherences parameterization of multiqubit density operators for entanglement characterization
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 69:012311, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308019
abstract: For multiqubit densities, the tensor of coherences (or Stokes tensor) is a real parameterization obtained by the juxtaposition of the affine Bloch vectors of each qubit. While it maintains the tensorial structure of the underlying space, it highlights the pattern of correlations, both classical and quantum, between the subsystems and, due to the affine parameterization, it contains in its components all reduced densities of all orders. The main purpose of our use of this formalism is to deal with entanglement. For example, the detection of bipartite entanglement is straightforward, as it is the synthesis of densities having positive partial transposes between desired qubits. In addition, finding explicit mixtures for families of separable states becomes a feasible issue for few qubit symmetric densities (we compute it for Werner states) and, more important, it provides some insight on the possible origin of entanglement for such densities.

id: quant-ph/0308020
title: Teleportation with partially entangled states
authors: Z. Kurucz, M. Koniorczyk, J. Janszky
comments: LaTeX2e, w-art.cls, 7 pages, no figures
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 49, 1019-1025 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308020
abstract: The relations of antilinear maps, bipartite states and quantum channels is summarized. Antilinear maps are applied to describe bipartite states and entanglement. Teleportation is treated in this general formalism with an emphasis on conditional schemes applying partially entangled pure states. It is shown that in such schemes the entangled state shared by the parties, and those measured by the sender should ``match'' each other.

id: quant-ph/0308021
title: Commutative version of the k-local Hamiltonian problem and common eigenspace problem
authors: S. Bravyi, M. Vyalyi
comments: 30 pages (more detailed version)
journal: Quantum Inf. and Comp., Vol. 5, No. 3 (2005) pp.187-215
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308021
abstract: We study the complexity of a problem "Common Eigenspace" -- verifying consistency of eigenvalue equations for composite quantum systems. The input of the problem is a family of pairwise commuting Hermitian operators H_1,...,H_r on a Hilbert space (C^d)^{\otimes n} and a string of real numbers h_1,...,h_r. The problem is to determine whether a common eigenspace specified by equalities (H_a - h_a)|\psi>=0, a=1,...,r, has a positive dimension. We consider two cases: (i) all operators H_a are k-local; (ii) all operators H_a are factorized. It can be easily shown that both problems belong to the class QMA - the quantum analogue of NP, and that some NP-complete problems can be reduced to either (i) or (ii). A non-trivial question is whether the problems (i) or (ii) belong to NP? We show that the answer is positive for some special values of k and d. Also we prove that the problem (ii) can be reduced to its special case, such that all operators H_a are factorized projectors and all h_a=0.

id: quant-ph/0308022
title: Quantum error correcting codes and one-way quantum computing: Towards a quantum memory
authors: Dirk Schlingemann
comments: 10 pages, RevTex, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308022
abstract: For realizing a quantum memory we suggest to first encode quantum information via a quantum error correcting code and then concatenate combined decoding and re-encoding operations. This requires that the encoding and the decoding operation can be performed faster than the typical decoherence time of the underlying system. The computational model underlying the one-way quantum computer, which has been introduced by Hans Briegel and Robert Raussendorf, provides a suitable concept for a fast implementation of quantum error correcting codes. It is shown explicitly in this article is how encoding and decoding operations for stabilizer codes can be realized on a one-way quantum computer. This is based on the graph code representation for stabilizer codes, on the one hand, and the relation between cluster states and graph codes, on the other hand.

id: quant-ph/0308023
title: Rule 4 Statistics
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308023
abstract: When a conscious observer is part of a quantum mechanical system, rule (4) cuts off solutions to the Schrodinger equation. It is important to show that this interruption of the Hamiltonian dynamics does not effect the statistical predictions of the theory. The initial case considered is that of a two atom radioactive source. It is found that when the predictions of standard (Born rule) quantum theory are verified by using a particular experimental procedure, the result is the same as that predicted by quantum theory qualified by rule (4). This example is generalized, and the result is found to be the same.

id: quant-ph/0308024
title: Time-Resolved Two-Photon Quantum Interference
authors: T. Legero, T. Wilk, A. Kuhn, G. Rempe
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 77, 797-802 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308024
abstract: The interference of two independent single-photon pulses impinging on a beam splitter is analysed in a generalised time-resolved manner. Different aspects of the phenomenon are elaborated using different representations of the single-photon wave packets, like the decomposition into single-frequency field modes or spatio-temporal modes matching the photonic wave packets. Both representations lead to equivalent results, and a photon-by-photon analysis reveals that the quantum-mechanical two-photon interference can be interpreted as a classical one-photon interference once a first photon is detected. A novel time-dependent quantum-beat effect is predicted if the interfering photons have different frequencies. The calculation also reveals that full two-photon fringe visibility can be achieved under almost any circumstances by applying a temporal filter to the signal.

id: quant-ph/0308025
title: Engineering squeezed states in high-Q cavities
authors: N. G. de Almeida, R. M. Serra, C. J. Villas-Boas, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 035802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308025
abstract: While it has been possible to build fields in high-Q cavities with a high degree of squeezing for some years, the engineering of arbitrary squeezed states in these cavities has only recently been addressed [Phys. Rev. A 68, 061801(R) (2003)]. The present work examines the question of how to squeeze any given cavity-field state and, particularly, how to generate the squeezed displaced number state and the squeezed macroscopic quantum superposition in a high-Q cavity.

id: quant-ph/0308026
title: Interpretation of "non-local" experiments using disentanglement
authors: B. C. Sanctuary, S. Presse, T. D. Lazzara, E. J. Henderson, R. F. Hourani
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; shortened and clearified to relate to the statistical ensemble interpretation of the quantum state
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308026
abstract: It is shown that a number of experiments designed to use entangled photon pairs in order to demonstrate the viability of quantum "teleportation" can, in fact, also be understood using disentanglement. Whether entangled or not, using an ensemble approach, the experiments can be explained without any non-local communication between Alice's photon and Bob's photon. Moreover, it is emphasized that entanglement maintains a symmetry property between the two photons that is absent in disentanglment, the symmetry being parity due to phase conerence.

id: quant-ph/0308027
title: The next stage: quantum game theory
authors: E.W.Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski
comments: Preliminary version of an invited contribution to "Progress in Mathematical Physics Research", Nova Science Publishers 2003; LaTeX, 23 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308027
abstract: Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The paper presents the history, basic ideas and recent development in quantum game theory. On grounds of the discussed material, we reason about possible future development of quantum game theory and its impact on information processing and the emerging information society.

id: quant-ph/0308028
title: Is Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics an Indefinite-Metric Quantum Theory?
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 7 pages, contributed to the meeting on Quantum Groups and Integrable Systems held in Prag, June 2003
journal: Czech.J.Phys.53:1079-1084,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308028
abstract: With a view to eliminate an important misconception in some recent publications, we give a brief review of the notion of a pseudo-Hermitian operator, outline pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanics, and discuss its basic difference with the indefinite-metric quantum mechanics. In particular, we show that the answer to the question posed in the title is a definite No.

id: quant-ph/0308029
title: Reliability of Calderbank-Shor-Steane Codes and Security of Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: No figure. Ver.2: Security criterion slightly refined. 25 pages. Ver.3: Completely revised to fix a serious error. The existence of needed robust codes beyond the Gilbert-Varshamov rate was not proved in the previous versions (or in the literature). Ver.4: Minor errors corrected. Ver.5: Security proof for general joint attacks added. Ver.5: Accepted version; the results and reasonings unchanged; a remark on random sampling added in Appendix C with three references
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, vol.37, no.34, pp.8303--8328, Aug. 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308029
abstract: After Mayers (1996, 2001) gave a proof of the security of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol, Shor and Preskill (2000) made a remarkable observation that a Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) code had been implicitly used in the BB84 protocol, and suggested its security could be proven by bounding the fidelity, say F(n), of the incorporated CSS code of length n in the form 1-F(n) <= exp[-n E+o(n)] for some positive number E. This work presents such a number E=E(R) as a function of the rate of a code R, and a threshold R' such that E(R)>0 whenever R < R', which is larger than the achievable rate based on the Gilbert-Varshamov bound that is essentially due to Shor and Preskill (2000). The codes in the present work are robust against fluctuations of channel parameters, which fact is needed to establish the security rigorously and was not proved for rates above the Gilbert-Varshamov rate before in the literature. As a byproduct, the security of a modified BB84 protocol against any joint (coherent) attacks is proved quantitatively.

id: quant-ph/0308030
title: Experimental Eavesdropping Attack against Ekert's Protocol based on Wigner's Inequality
authors: F.A. Bovino, A.M. Colla, G. Castagnoli, S. Castelletto, I.P. Degiovanni, M.L. Rastello
comments: RevTex style, 5 pages, 6 figures, to appear on PRA with minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308030
abstract: We experimentally implemented an eavesdropping attack against the Ekert protocol for quantum key distribution based on the Wigner inequality. We demonstrate a serious lack of security of this protocol when the eavesdropper gains total control of the source. In addition we tested a modified Wigner inequality which should guarantee a secure quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0308031
title: Measures of entanglement in multipartite bound entangled states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Joseph B. Altepeter, Paul M. Goldbart, William J. Munro
comments: 5 pages, no figure; title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022322 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308031
abstract: Bound entangled states are states that are entangled but from which no entanglement can be distilled if all parties are allowed only local operations and classical communication. However, in creating these states one needs nonzero entanglement resources to start with. Here, the entanglement of two distinct multipartite bound entangled states is determined analytically in terms of a geometric measure of entanglement and a related quantity. The results are compared with those for the negativity and the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0308032
title: A complete family of separability criteria
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Pablo A. Parrilo, Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 21 pages. Expanded introduction. References added, typos corrected. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308032
abstract: We introduce a new family of separability criteria that are based on the existence of extensions of a bipartite quantum state $\rho$ to a larger number of parties satisfying certain symmetry properties. It can be easily shown that all separable states have the required extensions, so the non-existence of such an extension for a particular state implies that the state is entangled. One of the main advantages of this approach is that searching for the extension can be cast as a convex optimization problem known as a semidefinite program (SDP). Whenever an extension does not exist, the dual optimization constructs an explicit entanglement witness for the particular state. These separability tests can be ordered in a hierarchical structure whose first step corresponds to the well-known Positive Partial Transpose (Peres-Horodecki) criterion, and each test in the hierarchy is at least as powerful as the preceding one. This hierarchy is complete, in the sense that any entangled state is guaranteed to fail a test at some finite point in the hierarchy, thus showing it is entangled. The entanglement witnesses corresponding to each step of the hierarchy have well-defined and very interesting algebraic properties that in turn allow for a characterization of the interior of the set of positive maps. Coupled with some recent results on the computational complexity of the separability problem, which has been shown to be NP-hard, this hierarchy of tests gives a complete and also computationally and theoretically appealing characterization of mixed bipartite entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0308033
title: Minimal Universal Two-qubit Quantum Circuits
authors: Vivek V. Shende, Igor L. Markov, Stephen S. Bullock
comments: 8 pages, 2 tables and 4 figures. v3 adds a discussion of asymetry between Rx, Ry and Rz gates and describes a subtle circuit design problem arising when Ry gates are not available. v2 sharpens one of the loose bounds in v1. Proof techniques in v2 are noticeably revamped: they now rely less on circuit identities and more on directly-computed invariants of two-qubit operators. This makes proofs more constructive and easier to interpret as algorithms
journal: V. V. Shende, I. L. Markov, and S. S. Bullock, ``Minimal Universal Two-qubit Controlled-NOT-based Circuits,'' APS Physical Review A 69, 062321 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308033
abstract: We give quantum circuits that simulate an arbitrary two-qubit unitary operator up to global phase. For several quantum gate libraries we prove that gate counts are optimal in worst and average cases. Our lower and upper bounds compare favorably to previously published results. Temporary storage is not used because it tends to be expensive in physical implementations. For each gate library, best gate counts can be achieved by a single universal circuit. To compute gate parameters in universal circuits, we only use closed-form algebraic expressions, and in particular do not rely on matrix exponentials. Our algorithm has been coded in C++.

id: quant-ph/0308034
title: Quantum games of asymmetric information
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Hui Li, Chenyong Ju
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68 016124 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308034
abstract: We investigate quantum games in which the information is asymmetrically distributed among the players, and find the possibility of the quantum game outperforming its classical counterpart depends strongly on not only the entanglement, but also the informational asymmetry. What is more interesting, when the information distribution is asymmetric, the contradictive impact of the quantum entanglement on the profits is observed, which is not reported in quantum games of symmetric information.

id: quant-ph/0308035
title: Lueders Theorem for Coherent-State POVMs
authors: Stefan Weigert, Paul Busch
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 44 (2003) 5474
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308035
abstract: Lueders theorem states that two observables commute if measuring one of them does not disturb the measurement outcomes of the other. We study measurements which are described by continuous positive operator-valued measurements (or POVMs) associated with coherent states on a Lie group. In general, operators turn out to be invariant under the Lueders map if their P- and Q-symbols coincide. For a spin corresponding to SU(2), the identity is shown to be the only operator with this property. For a particle, a countable family of linearly independent operators is identified which are invariant under the Lueders map generated by the coherent states of the Heisenberg-Weyl group, H_3. The Lueders map is also shown to implement the anti-normal ordering of creation and annihilation operators of a particle.

id: quant-ph/0308036
title: Quantum logic network for probabilistic cloning the quantum states
authors: Ting Gao, Fengli Yan, Zhixi Wang
comments: 7 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys., 43 (2005) 73.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308036
abstract: We construct efficient quantum logic network for probabilistic cloning the quantum states used in implemented tasks for which cloning provides some enhancement in performance.

id: quant-ph/0308037
title: Silver mean conjectures for 15-d volumes and 14-d hyperareas of the separable two-qubit systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 30 pages, 6 tables, 17 figures; nine new figures and one new table in new section VII.B pertaining to 14-dimensional hyperareas associated with various monotone metrics
journal: J. Geometry and Physics 53/1 (2005), 74-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308037
abstract: Extensive numerical integration results lead us to conjecture that the silver mean, that is, s = \sqrt{2}-1 = .414214 plays a fundamental role in certain geometries (those given by monotone metrics) imposable on the 15-dimensional convex set of two-qubit systems. For example, we hypothesize that the volume of separable two-qubit states, as measured in terms of (four times) the minimal monotone or Bures metric is s/3, and 10s in terms of (four times) the Kubo-Mori monotone metric. Also, we conjecture, in terms of (four times) the Bures metric, that that part of the 14-dimensional boundary of separable states consisting generically of rank-four 4 x 4 density matrices has volume (``hyperarea'') 55s/39 and that part composed of rank-three density matrices, 43s/39, so the total boundary hyperarea would be 98s/39. While the Bures probability of separability (0.07334) dominates that (0.050339) based on the Wigner-Yanase metric (and all other monotone metrics) for rank-four states, the Wigner-Yanase (0.18228) strongly dominates the Bures (0.03982) for the rank-three states.

id: quant-ph/0308038
title: Quantum Equilibrium and the Role of Operators as Observables in Quantum Theory
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Sheldon Goldstein, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 77 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308038
abstract: Bohmian mechnaics is the most naively obvious embedding imaginable of Schr\"odingers's equation into a completely coherent physical theory. It describes a world in which particles move in a highly non-Newtonian sort of way, one which may at first appear to have little to do with the spectrum of predictions of quantum mechanics. It turns out, however, that as a consequence of the defining dynamical equations of Bohmian mechanics, when a system has wave function $\psi$ its configuration is typically random, with probability density $\rho$ given by $|\psi|^2$, the quantum equilibrium distribution. It also turns out that the entire quantum formalism, operators as observables and all the rest, naturally emerges in Bohmian mechanics from the analysis of ``measurements.'' This analysis reveals the status of operators as observables in the description of quantum phenomena, and facilitates a clear view of the range of applicability of the usual quantum mechanical formulas.

id: quant-ph/0308039
title: Quantum Equilibrium and the Origin of Absolute Uncertainty
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Sheldon Goldstein, Nino Zangh¨ª
comments: 75 pages. This paper was published a long time ago, but was never archived. We do so now because it is basic for our recent article quant-ph/0308038, which can in fact be regarded as an appendix of the earlier one
journal: Journ. of Statistical Phys. 67, 843-907 (1992)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308039
abstract: The quantum formalism is a ``measurement'' formalism--a phenomenological formalism describing certain macroscopic regularities. We argue that it can be regarded, and best be understood, as arising from Bohmian mechanics, which is what emerges from Schr\"odinger's equation for a system of particles when we merely insist that ``particles'' means particles. While distinctly non-Newtonian, Bohmian mechanics is a fully deterministic theory of particles in motion, a motion choreographed by the wave function. We find that a Bohmian universe, though deterministic, evolves in such a manner that an {\it appearance} of randomness emerges, precisely as described by the quantum formalism and given, for example, by ``$\rho=|\psis|^2$.'' A crucial ingredient in our analysis of the origin of this randomness is the notion of the effective wave function of a subsystem, a notion of interest in its own right and of relevance to any discussion of quantum theory. When the quantum formalism is regarded as arising in this way, the paradoxes and perplexities so often associated with (nonrelativistic) quantum theory simply evaporate.

id: quant-ph/0308040
title: Classical vs Quantum Mechanics: role of elementary excitations
authors: I. Loris, R. Sasaki
comments: LaTeX2e with amsfonts, 9 pages, no figures. Typos corrected. Three references added. Section 3 with summary and comments added
journal: Physics Letters A327 (2004) 152--157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308040
abstract: Simple theorems relating a quantum mechanical system to the corresponding classical one at equilibrium and connecting the quantum eigenvalues to the frequencies of normal modes oscillations are presented. Corresponding to each quantum eigenfunction, a ` classical eigenfunction' is associated. Those belonging to `elementary excitations' play an important role.

id: quant-ph/0308041
title: Three level atom optics via the tunneling interaction
authors: K. Eckert, M. Lewenstein, R. Corbalan, G. Birkl, W. Ertmer, J. Mompart
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308041
abstract: Three level atom optics (TLAO) is introduced as a simple, efficient and robust method to coherently manipulate and transport neutral atoms. The tunneling interaction among three trapped states allows to realize the spatial analog of the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), coherent population trapping (CPT), and electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) techniques. We investigate a particular implementation in optical microtrap arrays and show that under realistic parameters the coherent manipulation and transfer of neutral atoms among dipole traps could be realized in the millisecond range.

id: quant-ph/0308042
title: Adiabatic quantum computation and quantum phase transitions
authors: Jose Ignacio Latorre, Roman Orus
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 69, 062302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308042
abstract: We analyze the ground state entanglement in a quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm designed to solve the NP-complete Exact Cover problem. The entropy of entanglement seems to obey linear and universal scaling at the point where the mass gap becomes small, suggesting that the system passes near a quantum phase transition. Such a large scaling of entanglement suggests that the effective connectivity of the system diverges as the number of qubits goes to infinity and that this algorithm cannot be efficiently simulated by classical means. On the other hand, entanglement in Grover's algorithm is bounded by a constant.

id: quant-ph/0308043
title: Quantum tensor product structures are observable-induced
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Daniel Lidar, Seth Lloyd
comments: 5 Pages LaTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.92:060402,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308043
abstract: It is argued that the partition of a quantum system into subsystems is dictated by the set of operationally accessible interactions and measurements. The emergence of a multi-partite tensor product structure of the state-space and the associated notion of quantum entanglement are then relative and observable-induced. We develop a general algebraic framework aimed to formalize this concept. We discuss several cases relevant to quantum information processing and decoherence control.

id: quant-ph/0308044
title: A family of quantum protocols
authors: I. Devetak, A.W. Harrow, A. Winter
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 230504 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308044
abstract: We introduce two dual, purely quantum protocols: for entanglement distillation assisted by quantum communication (``mother'' protocol) and for entanglement assisted quantum communication (``father'' protocol). We show how a large class of ``children'' protocols (including many previously known ones) can be derived from the two by direct application of teleportation or super-dense coding. Furthermore, the parent may be recovered from most of the children protocols by making them ``coherent''. We also summarize the various resource trade-offs these protocols give rise to.

id: quant-ph/0308045
title: Recognizing Small-Circuit Structure in Two-Qubit Operators and Timing Hamiltonians to Compute Controlled-Not Gates
authors: Vivek V. Shende, Stephen S. Bullock, Igor L. Markov
comments: 4 pages, circuit examples, an algorithm and a new application (v3)
journal: Physical Review A 70, 012310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308045
abstract: This work proposes numerical tests which determine whether a two-qubit operator has an atypically simple quantum circuit. Specifically, we describe formulae, written in terms of matrix coefficients, characterizing operators implementable with exactly zero, one, or two controlled-not (CNOT) gates and all other gates being one-qubit. We give an algorithm for synthesizing two-qubit circuits with optimal number of CNOT gates, and illustrate it on operators appearing in quantum algorithms by Deutsch-Josza, Shor and Grover. In another application, our explicit numerical tests allow timing a given Hamiltonian to compute a CNOT modulo one-qubit gates, when this is possible.

id: quant-ph/0308046
title: Intensity Interferometry with Anyons
authors: T.D. Gutierrez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; additional discussion provided over previous version; removed one figure
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 063614
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308046
abstract: A pairwise correlation function in relative momentum space is discussed as a tool to characterize the properties of an incoherent source of non-interacting Abelian anyons. This is analogous to the Hanbury--Brown Twiss effect for particles with fractional statistics in two dimensions. In particular, using a flux tube model for anyons, the effects of source shape and quantum statistics on a two-particle correlation function are examined. Such a tool may prove useful in the context of quantum computing and other experimental applications where studying anyon sources are of interest.

id: quant-ph/0308047
title: Noise induced loss of entanglement
authors: Kovid Goyal
comments: RevTeX v4, 5 pages with 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308047
abstract: The disentangling effect of repeated applications of the bit flip channel (I\otimes\sigma_x) on bipartite qubit systems is analyzed. It is found that the rate of loss of entanglement is not uniform over all states. The distillable entanglement of maximally entangled states decreases faster than that of less entangled states. The analysis is also generalized to noise channels of the form n.sigma.

id: quant-ph/0308048
title: Unconditional Security of the Bennett 1992 quantum key-distribution over lossy and noisy channel
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. We have presented this topic at QIPC 2003 as a poster session
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032316 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308048
abstract: We show that the security proof of the Bennett 1992 protocol over loss-free channel in (K. Tamaki, M. Koashi, and N. Imoto, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 167904 (2003)) can be adapted to accommodate loss. We assumed that Bob's detectors discriminate between single photon states on one hand and vacuum state or multi-photon states on the other hand.

id: quant-ph/0308049
title: How far apart are classical and quantum systems?
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308049
abstract: As is well known, classical systems approximate quantum ones -- but how well? We introduce a definition of a "distance" on classical and quantum phase spaces that offers a measure of their separation. Such a distance scale provides a means to measure the quality of approximate solutions to various problems. A few simple applications are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0308050
title: Quantum Decoys
authors: Pablo Arrighi
comments: 6 pages, revtex, v2: minor corrections
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Information, Vol. 2, No. 3, (2004), pp341-351
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308050
abstract: Alice communicates with words drawn uniformly amongst $\{\ket{j}\}_{j=1..n}$, the canonical orthonormal basis. Sometimes however Alice interleaves quantum decoys $\{\frac{\ket{j}+i\ket{k}}{\sqrt{2}}\}$ between her messages. Such pairwise superpositions of possible words cannot be distinguished from the message words. Thus as malevolent Eve observes the quantum channel, she runs the risk of damaging the superpositions (by causing a collapse). At the receiving end honest Bob, whom we assume is warned of the quantum decoys' distribution, checks upon their integrity with a measurement. The present work establishes, in the case of individual attacks, the tradeoff between Eve's information gain (her chances, if a message word was sent, of guessing which) and the disturbance she induces (Bob's chances, if a quantum decoy was sent, to detect tampering). Besides secure channel protocols, quantum decoys seem a powerful primitive for constructing n-dimensional quantum cryptographic applications. Moreover the methods employed in this article should be of strong interest to anyone concerned with the old but fundamental problem of how much information may be gained about a system, versus how much this will disturb the system, in quantum mechanics. Keywords: d-level systems cryptography

id: quant-ph/0308051
title: Universal Measure of Entanglement
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 077904 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308051
abstract: A general framework is developed for separating classical and quantum correlations in a multipartite system. Entanglement is defined as the difference in the correlation information encoded by the state of a system and a suitably defined separable state with the same marginals. A generalization of the Schmidt decomposition is developed to implement the separation of correlations for any pure, multipartite state. The measure based on this decomposition is a generalization of the entanglement of formation to multipartite systems, provides an upper bound for the relative entropy of entanglement, and is directly computable on pure states. The example of pure three-qubit states is analyzed in detail, and a classification based on minimal, four-term decompositions is developed.

id: quant-ph/0308052
title: Exact quantum jump approach to open systems in Bosonic and spin baths
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022115 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308052
abstract: A general method is developed which enables the exact treatment of the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems through a Monte Carlo simulation technique. The method is based on a stochastic formulation of the von Neumann equation of the composite system and employs a pair of product states following a Markovian random jump process. The performance of the method is illustrated by means of stochastic simulations of the dynamics of open systems interacting with a Bosonic reservoir at zero temperature and with a spin bath in the strong coupling regime.

id: quant-ph/0308053
title: Thermofield Dynamics of Time-Dependent Boson and Fermion Systems
authors: Sang Pyo Kim, F.C. Khanna
comments: RevTex4 11 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308053
abstract: We formulate the thermofield dynamics for time-dependent systems by combining the Liouville-von Neumann equation, its invariant operators, and the basic notions of thermofield dynamics. The new formulation is applied to time-dependent bosons and fermions by using the time-dependent annihilation and creation operators that satisfy the Liouville-von Neumann equation. It is shown that the thermal state is the time- and temperature-dependent vacuum state and a general formula is derived to calculate the thermal expectation value of operators.

id: quant-ph/0308054
title: High Efficiency Photon Number Detection for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Edo Waks, Kyo Inoue, Eleni Diamanti, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308054
abstract: The Visible Light Photon Counter (VLPC) features high quantum efficiency and low pulse height dispersion. These properties make it ideal for efficient photon number state detection. The ability to perform efficient photon number state detection is important in many quantum information processing applications, including recent proposals for performing quantum computation with linear optical elements. In this paper we investigate the unique capabilities of the VLPC. The efficiency of the detector and cryogenic system is measured at 543nm wavelengths to be 85%. A picosecond pulsed laser is then used to excite the detector with pulses having average photon numbers ranging from 3-5. The output of the VLPC is used to discriminate photon numbers in a pulse. The error probability for number state discrimination is an increasing function of the number of photons, due to buildup of multiplication noise. This puts an ultimate limit on the ability of the VLPC to do number state detection. For many applications, it is sufficient to discriminate between 1 and more than one detected photon. The VLPC can do this with 99% accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0308055
title: Generation of photon number states
authors: Edo Waks, Eleni Diamanti, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308055
abstract: The Visible Light Photon Counter (VLPC) has the capability to discriminate photon number states, in contrast to conventional photon counters which can only detect the presence or absence of photons. We use this capability, along with the process of parametric down-conversion, to generate photon number states. We experimentally demonstrate generation of states containing 1,2,3 and 4 photons with high fidelity. We then explore the effect the detection efficiency of the VLPC has on the generation rate and fidelity of the created states.

id: quant-ph/0308056
title: Binegativity and geometry of entangled states in two qubits
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. I made the proof more transparent
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 020301(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308056
abstract: We prove that the binegativity is always positive for any two-qubit state. As a result, as suggested by the previous works, the asymptotic relative entropy of entanglement in two qubits does not exceed the Rains bound, and the PPT-entanglement cost for any two-qubit state is determined to be the logarithmic negativity of the state. Further, the proof reveals some geometrical characteristics of the entangled states, and shows that the partial transposition can give another separable approximation of the entangled state in two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0308057
title: Quantum key distribution with 2-bit quantum codes
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: Approved for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308057
abstract: We propose a prepare-and-measure scheme for quantum key distribution with 2-bit quantum codes. The protocol is unconditionally secure under whatever type of intercept-and-resend attack. Given the symmetric and independent errors to the transmitted qubits, our scheme can tolerate a bit error rate up to 26% in 4-state protocol and 30% in 6-state protocol, respectively. These values are higher than all currently known threshold values for prepare-and-measure protocols. A specific realization with linear optics is given.

id: quant-ph/0308058
title: Quantum Cloning of Mixed States in Symmetric Subspace
authors: Heng Fan
comments: Revtex, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A 68, 054301 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308058
abstract: Quantum cloning machine for arbitrary mixed states in symmetric subspace is proposed. This quantum cloning machine can be used to copy part of the output state of another quantum cloning machine and is useful in quantum computation and quantum information. The shrinking factor of this quantum cloning achieves the well-known upper bound. When the input is identical pure states, two different fidelities of this cloning machine are optimal.

id: quant-ph/0308059
title: Generation and purification of maximally-entangled atomic states in optical cavities
authors: P. Lougovski, E. Solano, H. Walther
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 013811 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308059
abstract: We present a probabilistic scheme for generating and purifying maximally-entangled states of two atoms inside an optical cavity via no-photon detection in the output cavity mode, where ideal detectors may not be required. The intermediate mixed states can be continuously "filtered" so as to violate Bell inequalities in a parametrized manner. The scheme relies on an additional strong-driving field that yields unusual dynamics in cavity QED experiments, simultaneously realizing Jaynes-Cummings and anti-Jaynes-Cummings interactions.

id: quant-ph/0308060
title: A new adiabatic quantum search algorithm
authors: H. Zaraket, V. Bagnulo, J. Kettner, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter
comments: 14 pages, 5 postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308060
abstract: We present a new adiabatic quantum algorithm for searching over structured databases. The new algorithm is optimized using a simplified complexity analysis.

id: quant-ph/0308061
title: Comments on some papers by M. Koashi and N. Imoto
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308061
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. My counter-example to the Koashi-Imoto decomposition can be avoided by setting j=1 for all states, at fixed l.

id: quant-ph/0308062
title: The Darboux transformation and algebraic deformations of shape-invariant potentials
authors: David Gomez-Ullate, Niky Kamran, Robert Milson
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures. Paper has been considerably extended and revised. References added
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 1780-1804
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308062
abstract: We investigate the backward Darboux transformations (addition of a lowest bound state) of shape-invariant potentials on the line, and classify the subclass of algebraic deformations, those for which the potential and the bound states are simple elementary functions. A countable family, $m=0,1,2,...$, of deformations exists for each family of shape-invariant potentials. We prove that the $m$-th deformation is exactly solvable by polynomials, meaning that it leaves invariant an infinite flag of polynomial modules $\mathcal{P}^{(m)}_m\subset\mathcal{P}^{(m)}_{m+1}\subset...$, where $\mathcal{P}^{(m)}_n$ is a codimension $m$ subspace of $<1,z,...,z^n>$. In particular, we prove that the first ($m=1$) algebraic deformation of the shape-invariant class is precisely the class of operators preserving the infinite flag of exceptional monomial modules $\mathcal{P}^{(1)}_n = < 1,z^2,...,z^n>$. By construction, these algebraically deformed Hamiltonians do not have an $\mathfrak{sl}(2)$ hidden symmetry algebra structure.

id: quant-ph/0308063
title: Optimization of Bell's Inequality Violation For Continuous Variable Systems
authors: G. Gour, F. C. Khanna, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: An example added; shows that the amount of Bell's inequality violation as a measure of entanglement is doubtful
journal: Phys. Lett. A. Vol. 324/5-6 pp 415-419 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308063
abstract: Two mode squeezed vacuum states allow Bell's inequality violation (BIQV) for all non-vanishing squeezing parameter $(\zeta)$. Maximal violation occurs at $\zeta \to \infty$ when the parity of either component averages to zero. For a given entangled {\it two spin} system BIQV is optimized via orientations of the operators entering the Bell operator (cf. S. L. Braunstein, A. Mann and M. Revzen: Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf68}, 3259 (1992)). We show that for finite $\zeta$ in continuous variable systems (and in general whenever the dimensionality of the subsystems is greater than 2) additional parameters are present for optimizing BIQV. Thus the expectation value of the Bell operator depends, in addition to the orientation parameters, on configuration parameters. Optimization of these configurational parameters leads to a unique maximal BIQV that depends only on $\zeta.$ The configurational parameter variation is used to show that BIQV relation to entanglement is, even for pure state, not monotonic.

id: quant-ph/0308064
title: Gaussian quantum operator representation for bosons
authors: Joel F. Corney, Peter D. Drummond
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure, Revised introduction and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063822 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308064
abstract: We introduce the Gaussian quantum operator representation, using the most general multi-mode Gaussian operator basis. The representation unifies and substantially extends existing phase-space representations of density matrices for Bose systems, and also includes generalized squeezed-state and thermal bases. It enables first-principles dynamical or equilibrium calculations in quantum many-body systems, with quantum uncertainties appearing as dynamical objects. Any quadratic Liouville equation for the density operator results in a purely deterministic time evolution. Any cubic or quartic master equation can be treated using stochastic methods.

id: quant-ph/0308065
title: Boundary Quantum Mechanics
authors: Pavel Krtous
comments: 35 pages, in Gravitation: Following the Prague Inspiration (To celebrate the 60th birthday of Jiri Bicak), O.Semerak, J.Podolsky, M.Zofka (eds.), World Scientific, Singapore, 2002, pp. 289--323
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308065
abstract: A reformulation of a physical theory in which measurements at the initial and final moments of time are treated independently is discussed, both on the classical and quantum levels. Methods of the standard quantum mechanics are used to quantize boundary phase space to obtain boundary quantum mechanics -- a theory that does not depend on the distinction between the initial and final moments of time, a theory that can be formulated without reference to the causal structure. As a supplementary material, the geometrical description of quantization of a general (e.g. curved) configuration space is presented.

id: quant-ph/0308066
title: A formula for the Bloch vector of some Lindblad quantum systems
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: Accepted in Phys. Lett. A (shorter version than original)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 323, 365 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308066
abstract: Using the Bloch representation of an N-dimensional quantum system and immediate results from quantum stochastic calculus, we establish a closed formula for the Bloch vector, hence also for the density operator, of a quantum system following a Lindblad evolution with selfadjoint Lindblad operators.

id: quant-ph/0308067
title: A geometric phase gate without dynamical phases
authors: R. G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308067
abstract: A general scheme for an adiabatic geometric phase gate is proposed which is maximally robust against parameter fluctuations. While in systems with SU(2) symmetry geometric phases are usually accompanied by dynamical phases and are thus not robust, we show that in the more general case of a SU(2) x SU(2) symmetry it is possible to obtain a non-vanishing geometric phase without dynamical contributions. The scheme is illustrated for a phase gate using two systems with dipole-dipole interactions in external laser fields which form an effective four-level system.

id: quant-ph/0308068
title: Controlling dipole-dipole frequency shifts in a lattice-based optical atomic clock
authors: D. E. Chang, Jun Ye, M. D. Lukin
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308068
abstract: Motivated by the ideas of using cold alkaline earth atoms trapped in an optical lattice for realization of optical atomic clocks, we investigate theoretically the perturbative effects of atom-atom interactions on a clock transition frequency. These interactions are mediated by the dipole fields associated with the optically excited atoms. We predict resonance-like features in the frequency shifts when constructive interference among atomic dipoles occur. We theoretically demonstrate that by fine-tuning the coherent dipole-dipole couplings in appropriately designed lattice geometries, the undesirable frequency shifts can be greatly suppressed.

id: quant-ph/0308069
title: Classical Limit of Quantum Dynamical Entropies
authors: F. Benatti, V. Cappellini, M. De Cock, M. Fannes, D. Vanpeteghem
comments: LaTeX, 41 pages; v2: small changes and corrected typos
journal: Rev. Math. Phys., Vol. 15 Num. 8 (October 2003) 847-875
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308069
abstract: Two non-commutative dynamical entropies are studied in connection with the classical limit. For systems with a strongly chaotic classical limit, the Kolmogorov-Sinai invariant is recovered on time scales that are logarithmic in the quantisation parameter. The model of the quantised hyperbolic automorphisms of the 2-torus is examined in detail.

id: quant-ph/0308070
title: Probing the dispersive and spatial properties of planar photonic crystal waveguide modes via highly efficient coupling from optical fiber tapers
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Kartik Srinivasan, Matthew Borselli, Oskar Painter
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett., v85, 4 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308070
abstract: The demonstration of an optical fiber based probe for efficiently exciting the waveguide modes of high-index contrast planar photonic crystal (PC) slabs is presented. Utilizing the dispersion of the PC, fiber taper waveguides formed from standard silica single-mode optical fibers are used to evanescently couple light into the guided modes of a patterned silicon membrane. A coupling efficiency of approximately 95% is obtained between the fiber taper and a PC waveguide mode suitably designed for integration with a previously studied ultra-small mode volume high-Q PC resonant cavity [1]. The micron-scale lateral extent and dispersion of the fiber taper is also used as a near-field spatial and spectral probe to study the profile and dispersion of PC waveguide modes. The mode selectivity of this wafer-scale probing technique, together with its high efficiency, suggests that it will be useful in future quantum and non-linear optics experiments employing planar PCs.

id: quant-ph/0308071
title: Comparison of LOQC C-sign gates with ancilla inefficiency and an improvement to functionality under these conditions
authors: A. P. Lund, T. B. Bell, T. C. Ralph
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A 68, 022313 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308071
abstract: We compare three proposals for non-deterministic C-sign gates implemented using linear optics and conditional measurements with non-ideal ancilla mode production and detection. The simplified KLM gate [Ralph et al, Phys.Rev.A {\bf 65}, 012314 (2001)] appears to be the most resilient under these conditions. We also find that the operation of this gate can be improved by adjusting the beamsplitter ratios to compensate to some extent for the effects of the imperfect ancilla.

id: quant-ph/0308072
title: Computational Complexity Measures of Multipartite Quantum Entanglement
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of the 14th Annual International Conference on Algorithms and Computation, December 2003
journal: Proc. 14th ISAAC. Springer's LNCS, Vol.2906, pp.117-128, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308072
abstract: We shed new light on entanglement measures in multipartite quantum systems by taking a computational-complexity approach toward quantifying quantum entanglement with two familiar notions--approximability and distinguishability. Built upon the formal treatment of partial separability, we measure the complexity of an entangled quantum state by determining (i) how hard to approximate it from a fixed classical state and (ii) how hard to distinguish it from all partially separable states. We further consider the Kolmogorovian-style descriptive complexity of approximation and distinction of partial entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0308073
title: A note on graphs resistant to quantum uniform mixing
authors: William Adamczak, Kevin Andrew, Peter Hernberg, Christino Tamon
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308073
abstract: Continuous-time quantum walks on graphs is a generalization of continuous-time Markov chains on discrete structures. Moore and Russell proved that the continuous-time quantum walk on the $n$-cube is instantaneous exactly uniform mixing but has no average mixing property. On complete (circulant) graphs $K_{n}$, the continuous-time quantum walk is neither instantaneous (except for $n=2,3,4$) nor average uniform mixing (except for $n=2$). We explore two natural {\em group-theoretic} generalizations of the $n$-cube as a $G$-circulant and as a bunkbed $G \rtimes \Int_{2}$, where $G$ is a finite group. Analyses of these classes suggest that the $n$-cube might be special in having instantaneous uniform mixing and that non-uniform average mixing is pervasive, i.e., no memoryless property for the average limiting distribution; an implication of these graphs having zero spectral gap. But on the bunkbeds, we note a memoryless property with respect to the two partitions. We also analyze average mixing on complete paths, where the spectral gaps are nonzero.

id: quant-ph/0308074
title: Probability amplitude in quantum like games
authors: A.A.Grib, A.Yu.Khrennikov, K.Starkov
comments: Quantum-like models
journal: J. Phys. A.: Math. Gen. 39, 8461-8475 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308074
abstract: Examples of games between two partners with mixed strategies, calculated by the use of the probability amplitude are given. The first game is described by the quantum formalism of spin one half system for which two noncommuting observables are measured. The second game corresponds to the spin one case. Quantum logical orthocomplemented nondistributive lattices for these two games are presented. Interference terms for the probability amplitudes are analyzed by using so called contextual approach to probability (in the von Mises frequency approach). We underline that our games are not based on using of some microscopic systems. The whole scenario is macroscopic.

id: quant-ph/0308075
title: Theory of Plasmon-assisted Transmission of Entangled Photons
authors: Esteban Moreno, F. J. Garcia-Vidal, Daniel Erni, J. Ignacio Cirac, L. Martin-Moreno
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 236801 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308075
abstract: The recent surface plasmon entanglement experiment [E. Altewischer et al., Nature (London) 418, 304 (2002)] is theoretically analyzed. The entanglement preservation upon transmission in the non-focused case is found to provide information about the interaction of the biphoton and the metallic film. The entanglement degradation in the focused case is explained in the framework of a fully multimode model. This phenomenon is a consequence of the polarization-selective filtering behavior of the metallic nanostructured film.

id: quant-ph/0308076
title: Testing quantum duality using cold Rydberg atoms
authors: J. L. Noronha, C. Wotzasek
comments: 4 pages, new title, new arguments in the experimental setup, accepted for publication on Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B602 (2004) 144-148
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308076
abstract: Classically, the dynamics of the chiral oscillator (CO) may be described by the Landau model (LM) through a well established mathematical procedure known as duality mapping. In this letter we show how this duality is broken in quantum mechanics due to the presence of a $Z_2$-anomaly in the CO. We give the theoretical basis for an experimental setup displaying the possibility to measure this global anomaly using cold Rydberg atoms.

id: quant-ph/0308077
title: Can there be a Fock state of the radiation field?
authors: N. Nayak
comments: Preliminary draft
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308077
abstract: We analyze possible hurdles in generating a Fock state of the radiation field in a micromaser cavity.

id: quant-ph/0308078
title: Wigner's inequality for conditional probabilities and nonexistence of a realistic model for the two dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308078
abstract: We perform the analysis of probabilistic assumptions of Bell's approach. We emphasize that J. Bell wrote about probability without to specify the concrete axiomatics of probability theory. The careful analysis demonstrated that (surprisingly) J. Bell did not apply the classical probability model (Kolmogorov) to describe ``classical physical framework.'' In fact, he created his own probabilistic model and compared it with the quantum one. The crucial point is that J. Bell did not pay attention to {\it conditional probabilities.} We show that conditional probability in his model cannot be defined by classical Bayes' formula. We also use the approach based on Bell-type inequalities in the conventional probabilistic approach, Kolmogorov model. We prove an analog of Wigner's inequality for conditional probabilities and by using this inequality show that predictions of the conventional and quantum probability models disagree already in the case of noncomposite systems (even in the two dimensional case).

id: quant-ph/0308079
title: Engineering quantum pure states of a trapped cold ion beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: L.F.Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, no figure. submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 063801 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308079
abstract: Based on the conditional quantum dynamics of laser-ion interaction, we propose an efficient theoretical scheme to deterministically generate quantum pure states of a single trapped cold ion without performing the Lamb-Dicke approximation. An arbitrary quantum state can be created by using a series of classical laser beams with selected frequencies, initial phases and durations. As special examples, we further show how to create or approximate several typical macroscopic quantum states, such as the phase state and (even/odd) coherent states. Unlike previous schemes operated in the Lamb-Dicke regime, the present one does well for arbitrary strength coupling between the internal and external degrees of freedom of the ion. The experimental realizability of this approach is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0308080
title: Controlled Collisions for Multiparticle Entanglement of Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: Olaf Mandel, Markus Greiner, Artur Widera, Tim Rom, Theodor W. Haensch, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 17 pages, including 5 figures, accepted for publication in Nature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308080
abstract: Entanglement lies at the heart of quantum mechanics and in recent years has been identified as an essential resource for quantum information processing and computation. Creating highly entangled multi-particle states is therefore one of the most challenging goals of modern experimental quantum mechanics, touching fundamental questions as well as practical applications. Here we report on the experimental realization of controlled collisions between individual neighbouring neutral atoms trapped in the periodic potential of an optical lattice. These controlled interactions act as an array of quantum gates between neighbouring atoms in the lattice and their massively parallel operation allows the creation of highly entangled states in a single operational step, independent of the size of the system. In the experiment, we observe a coherent entangling-disentangling evolution in the many-body system depending on the phase shift acquired during the collision between neighbouring atoms. This dynamics is indicative of highly entangled many-body states that present novel opportunities for theory and experiment.

id: quant-ph/0308081
title: Structure of multiphoton quantum optics. I. Canonical formalism and homodyne squeezed states
authors: Fabio Dell'Anno, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 033812
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308081
abstract: We introduce a formalism of nonlinear canonical transformations for general systems of multiphoton quantum optics. For single-mode systems the transformations depend on a tunable free parameter, the homodyne local oscillator angle; for n-mode systems they depend on n heterodyne mixing angles. The canonical formalism realizes nontrivial mixings of pairs of conjugate quadratures of the electromagnetic field in terms of homodyne variables for single-mode systems; and in terms of heterodyne variables for multimode systems. In the first instance the transformations yield nonquadratic model Hamiltonians of degenerate multiphoton processes and define a class of non Gaussian, nonclassical multiphoton states that exhibit properties of coherence and squeezing. We show that such homodyne multiphoton squeezed states are generated by unitary operators with a nonlinear time evolution that realizes the homodyne mixing of a pair of conjugate quadratures. Tuning of the local oscillator angle allows to vary at will the statistical properties of such states. We discuss the relevance of the formalism for the study of degenerate (up-)down-conversion processes. In a companion paper, ``Structure of multiphoton quantum optics. II. Bipartite systems, physical processes, and heterodyne squeezed states'', we provide the extension of the nonlinear canonical formalism to multimode systems, we introduce the associated heterodyne multiphoton squeezed states, and we discuss their possible experimental realization.

id: quant-ph/0308082
title: Finite size effects in entangled rings of qubits
authors: T. Meyer, U. V. Poulsen, K. Eckert, M. Lewenstein, D. Bruss
comments: RevTeX4, 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 2, 149 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308082
abstract: We study translationally invariant rings of qubits with a finite number of sites N, and find the maximal nearest-neighbor entanglement for a fixed z component of the total spin. For small numbers of sites our results are analytical. The use of a linearized version of the concurrence allows us to relate the maximal concurrence to the ground state energy of an XXZ spin model, and to calculate it numerically for N<25. We point out some interesting finite-size effects. Finally, we generalize our results beyond nearest neighbors.

id: quant-ph/0308083
title: Entanglement, correlations, and the energy gap in many-body quantum systems
authors: Henry L. Haselgrove, Michael A. Nielsen, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (3), 032303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308083
abstract: What correlations are present in the ground state of a many-body Hamiltonian? We study the relationship between ground-state correlations, especially entanglement, and the energy gap between the ground and first excited states. We prove several general inequalities which show quantitatively that ground-state correlations between systems not directly coupled by the Hamiltonian necessarily imply a small energy gap.

id: quant-ph/0308084
title: Detailed Balance and Intermediate Statistics
authors: R. Acharya, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 13 pages, RevTex, submitted for publication; added references; added sentences
journal: J.Phys.A37:2527-2536,2004; Erratum-ibid.A37:6605,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308084
abstract: We present a theory of particles, obeying intermediate statistics ("anyons"), interpolating between Bosons and Fermions, based on the principle of Detailed Balance. It is demonstrated that the scattering probabilities of identical particles can be expressed in terms of the basic numbers, which arise naturally and logically in this theory. A transcendental equation determining the distribution function of anyons is obtained in terms of the statistics parameter, whose limiting values 0 and 1 correspond to Bosons and Fermions respectively. The distribution function is determined as a power series involving the Boltzmann factor and the statistics parameter and we also express the distribution function as an infinite continued fraction. The last form enables one to develop approximate forms for the distribution function, with the first approximant agreeing with our earlier investigation.

id: quant-ph/0308085
title: Quantum dynamical correlations: Effective potential analytic continuation approach
authors: Atsushi Horikoshi, Kenichi Kinugawa
comments: RevTeX4, 20 pages, 6 eps figures
journal: J.Chem.Phys. 119 (2003) 4629-4640
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308085
abstract: We propose a new quantum dynamics method called the effective potential analytic continuation (EPAC) to calculate the real time quantum correlation functions at finite temperature. The method is based on the effective action formalism which includes the standard effective potential. The basic notions of the EPAC are presented for a one-dimensional double well system in comparison with the centroid molecular dynamics (CMD) and the exact real time quantum correlation function. It is shown that both the EPAC and the CMD well reproduce the exact short time behavior, while at longer time their results deviate from the exact one. The CMD correlation function damps rapidly with time because of ensemble dephasing. The EPAC correlation function, however, can reproduce the long time oscillation inherent in the quantum double well systems. It is also shown that the EPAC correlation function can be improved toward the exact correlation function by means of the higher order derivative expansion of the effective action.

id: quant-ph/0308086
title: Entangled two atoms through different couplings and the thermal noise
authors: L. Zhou, X. X. Yi, H. S. Song, Y. Q. Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 378-382
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308086
abstract: The entanglement of two atoms is studied when the two atoms are coupled to a single-mode thermal field with different couplings. The different couplings of two atoms are in favor of entanglement preparation: it not only makes the case of absence entanglement with same coupling appear entanglement, but also enhances the entanglement with the increasing of the relative difference of two couplings. We also show that the diversity of coupling can improved the critical temperature. If the optical cavity is leaky during the time evolution, the dissipative thermal environment is benefit to produce the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0308087
title: Quantum arrival times and operator normalization
authors: G.C. Hegerfeldt, D. Seidel, J.G. Muga
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022111 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308087
abstract: A recent approach to arrival times used the fluorescence of an atom entering a laser illuminated region and the resulting arrival-time distribution was close to the axiomatic distribution of Kijowski, but not exactly equal, neither in limiting cases nor after compensation of reflection losses by normalization on the level of expectation values. In this paper we employ a normalization on the level of operators, recently proposed in a slightly different context. We show that in this case the axiomatic arrival time distribution of Kijowski is recovered as a limiting case. In addition, it is shown that Allcock's complex potential model is also a limit of the physically motivated fluorescence approach and connected to Kijowski's distribution through operator normalization.

id: quant-ph/0308088
title: "Squashed Entanglement" - An Additive Entanglement Measure
authors: Matthias Christandl, Andreas Winter
comments: 8 pages, revtex4. v2 has some more references and a bit more discussion, v3 continuity discussion extended, typos corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. Vol 45, No 3, pp. 829-840 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308088
abstract: In this paper, we present a new entanglement monotone for bipartite quantum states. Its definition is inspired by the so-called intrinsic information of classical cryptography and is given by the halved minimum quantum conditional mutual information over all tripartite state extensions. We derive certain properties of the new measure which we call "squashed entanglement": it is a lower bound on entanglement of formation and an upper bound on distillable entanglement. Furthermore, it is convex, additive on tensor products, and superadditive in general. Continuity in the state is the only property of our entanglement measure which we cannot provide a proof for. We present some evidence, however, that our quantity has this property, the strongest indication being a conjectured Fannes type inequality for the conditional von Neumann entropy. This inequality is proved in the classical case.

id: quant-ph/0308089
title: Unital quantum operators on the Bloch ball and Bloch region
authors: P. S. Bourdon, H. T. Williams
comments: Revised and corrected, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308089
abstract: For one qubit systems, we present a short, elementary argument characterizing unital quantum operators in terms of their action on Bloch vectors. We then show how our approach generalizes to multi-qubit systems, obtaining inequalities that govern when a ``diagonal'' superoperator on the Bloch region is a quantum operator. These inequalities are the n-qubit analogue of the Algoet-Fujiwara conditions. Our work is facilitated by an analysis of operator-sum decompositions in which negative summands are allowed.

id: quant-ph/0308090
title: Teleportation of continuous variable polarisation states
authors: A. Dolinska, B. C. Buchler, P. K. Lam, T. C. Ralph, W. P. Bowen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 68, 052308 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308090
abstract: This paper discusses methods for the optical teleportation of continuous variable polarisation states. We show that using two pairs of entangled beams, generated using four squeezed beams, perfect teleportation of optical polarisation states can be performed. Restricting ourselves to 3 squeezed beams, we demonstrate that polarisation state teleportation can still exceed the classical limit. The 3-squeezer schemes involve either the use of quantum non-demolition measurement or biased entanglement generated from a single squeezed beam. We analyse the efficacies of these schemes in terms of fidelity, signal transfer coefficients and quantum correlations.

id: quant-ph/0308091
title: A measurable entanglement criterion for two qubits
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk, Luis S¨¢nchez-Soto
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 68, pp. 062314/1-4, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308091
abstract: We propose a directly measurable criterion for the entanglement of two qubits. We compare the criterion with other criteria, and we find that for pure states, and some mixed states, it coincides with the state's concurrency. The measure can be obtained with a Bell state analyser and the ability to make general local unitary transformations. However, the procedure fails to measure the entanglement of a general mixed two-qubit state.

id: quant-ph/0308092
title: On quantum key distribution in decoherence-free subspace
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308092
abstract: We propose easy implementable protocols for robust quantum key distribution with the collective dephasing channel or collective rotating channel. In these protocols, Bob only takes passive photon detection to measure the polarization qubits in the random bases. The source for the protocol with collective rotating channel is made by type 2 spontaneous parametric down conversion with random unitary rotation and phase shifter, no quantum disentangler is required. A simple proof for unconditionally security is shown.

id: quant-ph/0308093
title: Angular Momentum of Photons Emitted by Atoms
authors: M.A. Can, Ozgur Cakir, A. Horzela, E. Kapuscik, A.A. Klyachko, A.S. Shumovsky
comments: 4 pages, laser physics workshop 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308093
abstract: It is shown that the spin and orbital angular momentum of electric dipole photons have the same operator structure and may differ from each other only by spatial dependence in the very vicinity of the atom. It is shown that the photon twins created by a dipole forbidden transition can manifest the maximum entanglement with respect to the angular momentum. It is shown that the states of photons with projection of angular momentum $m=0$ are less stable than those with $m= \pm 1$.

id: quant-ph/0308094
title: Structure of multiphoton quantum optics. II. Bipartite systems, physical processes, and heterodyne squeezed states
authors: Fabio Dell'Anno, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 16 pages, 23 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 033813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308094
abstract: Extending the scheme developed for a single mode of the electromagnetic field in the preceding paper ``Structure of multiphoton quantum optics. I. Canonical formalism and homodyne squeezed states'', we introduce two-mode nonlinear canonical transformations depending on two heterodyne mixing angles. They are defined in terms of hermitian nonlinear functions that realize heterodyne superpositions of conjugate quadratures of bipartite systems. The canonical transformations diagonalize a class of Hamiltonians describing non degenerate and degenerate multiphoton processes. We determine the coherent states associated to the canonical transformations, which generalize the non degenerate two--photon squeezed states. Such heterodyne multiphoton squeezed are defined as the simultaneous eigenstates of the transformed, coupled annihilation operators. They are generated by nonlinear unitary evolutions acting on two-mode squeezed states. They are non Gaussian, highly non classical, entangled states. For a quadratic nonlinearity the heterodyne multiphoton squeezed states define two--mode cubic phase states. The statistical properties of these states can be widely adjusted by tuning the heterodyne mixing angles, the phases of the nonlinear couplings, as well as the strength of the nonlinearity. For quadratic nonlinearity, we study the higher-order contributions to the susceptibility in nonlinear media and we suggest possible experimental realizations of multiphoton conversion processes generating the cubic-phase heterodyne squeezed states.

id: quant-ph/0308095
title: Photon polarisation entanglement from distant dipole sources
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, revised version, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 38, L7 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308095
abstract: It is commonly believed that photon polarisation entanglement can only be obtained via pair creation within the same source or via postselective measurements on photons that overlapped within their coherence time inside a linear optics setup. In contrast to this, we show here that polarisation entanglement can also be produced by distant single photon sources in free space and without the photons ever having to meet, if the detection of a photon does not reveal its origin -- the which way information. In the case of two sources, the entanglement arises under the condition of two emissions in certain spatial directions and leaves the dipoles in a maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0308096
title: The Heisenberg versus the Schrodinger picture in quantum field theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 16 pages, major changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308096
abstract: The Heisenberg picture and Schrodinger picture are supposed to be equivalent representations of quantum mechanics. However this idea has been challenged by P.A.M. Dirac. Also, it has been recently shown by A. J. Faria et al that this is not necessarily the case. In this article a simple problem will be worked out in quantum field theory in which the Heisenberg picture and Schrodinger picture give different results.

id: quant-ph/0308097
title: Coulomb-Oscillator Duality and Scattering Problem in 5-Dimensional Coulomb Field
authors: Levon Mardoyan
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308097
abstract: It is shown that the Hurwitz transformation connects the eight-dimensional repulsive oscillator problem with the five-dimensional Coulomb problem for continuous spectrum. The hyperspherical and parabolic bases for this system are calculated. The quantum mechanical scattering problem of charged particles in the 5-dimensional Coulomb field is solved.

id: quant-ph/0308098
title: Quantum circuits for single-qubit measurements corresponding to platonic solids
authors: Thomas Decker, Dominik Janzing, Thomas Beth
comments: 24 pages, Latex, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308098
abstract: Each platonic solid defines a single-qubit positive operator valued measure (POVM) by interpreting its vertices as points on the Bloch sphere. We construct simple circuits for implementing this kind of measurements and other simple types of symmetric POVMs on one qubit. Each implementation consists of a discrete Fourier transform and some elementary quantum operations followed by an orthogonal measurement in the computational basis.

id: quant-ph/0308099
title: Semiclassical time-evolution of the reduced density matrix and dynamically assisted generation of entanglement for bipartite quantum systems
authors: Philippe Jacquod
comments: Final version, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 150403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308099
abstract: Two particles, initially in a product state, become entangled when they come together and start to interact. Using semiclassical methods, we calculate the time evolution of the corresponding reduced density matrix $\rho_1$, obtained by integrating out the degrees of freedom of one of the particles. To quantify the generation of entanglement, we calculate the purity ${\cal P}(t)={\rm Tr}[\rho_1(t)^2]$. We find that entanglement generation sensitively depends (i) on the interaction potential, especially on its strength and range, and (ii) on the nature of the underlying classical dynamics. Under general statistical assumptions, and for short-scaled interaction potentials, we find that ${\cal P}(t)$ decays exponentially fast if the two particles are required to interact in a chaotic environment, whereas it decays only algebraically in a regular system. In the chaotic case, the decay rate is given by the golden rule spreading of one-particle states due to the two-particle coupling, but cannot exceed the system's Lyapunov exponent.

id: quant-ph/0308100
title: Resonance Fluorescence Squeezing Spectra from Photonic Bandgap Crystals
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B, 6, S715 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308100
abstract: The fluorescence intensity and quadrature spectra from a two-level atom embedded in a photonic bandgap crystal and resonantly driven by a classical pump light are calculated. The non-Markovian nature of the problem caused by the non-uniform distribution of the photonic density of states is handled by linearizing the generalized optical Bloch equations with the Liouville operator expansion. Unlike the case in free space, we find that the bandgap effects will not only modify the fluorescence spectral shape but also cause squeezing in the in-phase quadrature spectra.

id: quant-ph/0308101
title: Time and Geometric Quantization
authors: A. A. Abrikosov Jr, E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: Talk given by EG at "Spacetime and Fundamental Interactions: Quantum Aspects. A conference to honour A.P.Balachandran's 65th birthday"
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A18 (2003) 2347-2354
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308101
abstract: In this paper we briefly review the functional version of the Koopman-von Neumann operatorial approach to classical mechanics. We then show that its quantization can be achieved by freezing to zero two Grassmannian partners of time. This method of quantization presents many similarities with the one known as Geometric Quantization.

id: quant-ph/0308102
title: Unifying Entanglement and Nonlocality as a Single Concept: Quantum Wholeness
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Sixia Yu, Yong-De Zhang, Nai-Le Liu
comments: 5 pages, one figure; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308102
abstract: Although entanglement is widely recognized as one of the most fascinating characteristics of quantum mechanics, nonlocality remains to be a big labyrinth. The proof of existence of nonlocality is as yet not much convincing because of its strong reliance on Bell's theorem where the assumption of realism weakens the proof. We demonstrate that entanglement and quantum nonlocality are two equivalent aspects of the same quantum wholeness for spacelike separated quantum systems. This result implies that quantum mechanics is indeed a nonlocal theory and lays foundation of understanding quantum nonlocality beyond Bell's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0308103
title: Resonance of Minimizers for $n$-level Quantum Systems with an Arbitrary Cost
authors: Ugo Boscain, Gregoire Charlot
comments: The part about abnormal extremals is now given in a weaker form, following a remark of an anonymous referee
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308103
abstract: We consider an optimal control problem describing a laser-induced population transfer on a $n$-level quantum system. For a convex cost depending only on the moduli of controls (i.e. the lasers intensities), we prove that there always exists a minimizer in resonance. This permits to justify some strategies used in experimental physics. It is also quite important because it permits to reduce remarkably the complexity of the problem (and extend some of our previous results for $n=2$ and $n=3$): instead of looking for minimizers on the sphere $S^{2n-1}\subset\C^n$ one is reduced to look just for minimizers on the sphere $S^{n-1}\subset \R^n$. Moreover, for the reduced problem, we investigate on the question of existence of strict abnormal minimizer.

id: quant-ph/0308104
title: Phase-space approach to the study of decoherence in quantum walks
authors: C. C. Lopez, J. P. Paz
comments: Published version; contains some more details about the entropy
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052305 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308104
abstract: We analyze the quantum walk on a cycle using discrete Wigner functions as a way to represent the states and the evolution of the walker. The method provides some insight on the nature of the interference effects that make quantum and classical walks different. We also study the behavior of the system when the quantum coin carried by the walker interacts with an environment. We show that for this system quantum coherence is robust for initially delocalized states of the walker. The use of phase-space representation enables us to develop an intuitive description of the nature of the decoherence process in this system.

id: quant-ph/0308105
title: Spin-dependent Bohm trajectories for hydrogen eigenstates
authors: C. Colijn, E. R. Vrscay
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 300 (2002) 334-340
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308105
abstract: The Bohm trajectories for several hydrogen atom eigenstates are determined, taking into account the additional momentum term that arises from the Pauli current. Unlike the original Bohmian result, the spin-dependent term yields nonstationary trajectories. The relationship between the trajectories and the standard visualizations of orbitals is discussed. The trajectories for a model problem that simulates a 1s-2p transition in hydrogen are also examined.

id: quant-ph/0308106
title: Fluorescence Spectra of a Two-Level Atom Embedded in a Three-Dimensional Photonic Crystal
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308106
abstract: Steady-state fluorescence spectra of a two-level atom embedded in a three-dimensional photonic bandgap crystal and driven by a monochromatic classical electrical field is calculated theoretically for the first time as we know. The non-Markovian noises caused by the non-uniform distribution of photon density of states near the photonic bandgap are handled by a new approach in which the Liouville operator expansion is utilized to linearize the generalized optical Bloch equations. The fluorescence spectra are then directly solved by the linearized Bloch equations in the frequency domain. We find that if the atomic energy level is far from the bandgap, fluorescence spectra with Mollow's triplets are observed. However, when the atomic energy level is near the bandgap, the relative magnitude and the number of the fluorescence peaks are found to be varied according to the wavelength offset.

id: quant-ph/0308107
title: No information flow using statistical fluctuations, and quantum cryptography
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: revtex4, 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 69:042317 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308107
abstract: The communication protocol of Home and Whitaker [Phys. Rev. A 67, 022306 (2003)] is examined in some detail, and found to work equally well using a separable state. The protocol is in fact completely classical, based on simple post-selection of suitable experimental runs. The quantum cryptography protocol proposed in the same publication is also examined, and is found to indeed need quantum properties for the system to be secure. However, the security test proposed in the mentioned paper is found to be insufficient, and a modification is proposed here that will ensure security.

id: quant-ph/0308108
title: Comment on ``Measurement of quantum states of neutrons in the Earth's gravitational field"
authors: Johan Hansson, David Olevik, Christian T¨¹rk, Hanna Wiklund
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev. D68 (2003) 108701
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308108
abstract: In the paper by V.V. Nesvizhevsky et al., Phys. Rev. D 67, 102002 (2003), it is argued that the lowest quantum state of neutrons in the Earth's gravitational field has been experimentally identified. While this is most likely correct, it is imperative to investigate all alternative explanations of the result in order to close all loopholes, as it is the first experiment ever claimed to have observed gravitational quantum states. Here we show that geometrical effects in the experimental setup can mimic the results attributed to gravity. Modifications of the experimental setup to close these possible loopholes are suggested.

id: quant-ph/0308109
title: p-adic CCR: Galois group representations, cyclic dynamics, and zeta-functions
authors: A.M. Lisewski
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308109
abstract: We consider a model of cyclic time evolution for Kochubei's p-adic realization of the canonical commutation relations (CCR). Connections to Kubota-Leopoldt p-adic zeta-functions and to arithmetic quantum theories such as the Bost-Connes model are examined.

id: quant-ph/0308110
title: Quantum information via state partitions and the context translation principle
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: Contribution to the Garda Workshop, Sept. 1st-5th, 2003
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 15, 811-819 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308110
abstract: For many-particle systems, quantum information in base n can be defined by partitioning the set of states according to the outcomes of n-ary (joint) observables. Thereby, k particles can carry k nits. With regards to the randomness of single outcomes, a context translation principle is proposed. Quantum randomness is related to the uncontrollable degrees of freedom of the measurement interface, thereby translating a mismatch between the state prepared and the state measured.

id: quant-ph/0308111
title: Probabilistic quantum multimeters
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032302 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308111
abstract: We propose quantum devices that can realize probabilistically different projective measurements on a qubit. The desired measurement basis is selected by the quantum state of a program register. First we analyze the phase-covariant multimeters for a large class of program states, then the universal multimeters for a special choice of program. In both cases we start with deterministic but erroneous devices and then proceed to devices that never make a mistake but from time to time they give an inconclusive result. These multimeters are optimized (for a given type of a program) with respect to the minimum probability of inconclusive result. This concept is further generalized to the multimeters that minimize the error rate for a given probability of an inconclusive result (or vice versa). Finally, we propose a generalization for qudits.

id: quant-ph/0308112
title: Quantum Reversibility: Is there an Echo?
authors: Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen, Theo Geisel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 010402 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308112
abstract: We study the possibility to undo the quantum mechanical evolution in a time reversal experiment. The naive expectation, as reflected in the common terminology ("Loschmidt echo"), is that maximum compensation results if the reversed dynamics extends to the same time as the forward evolution. We challenge this belief, and demonstrate that the time $t_r$ for maximum return probability is in general shorter. We find that $t_r$ depends on $lambda = eps_evol/eps_prep$, being the ratio of the error in setting the parameters (fields) for the time reversed evolution to the perturbation which is involved in the preparation process. Our results should be observable in spin-echo experiments where the dynamical irreversibility of quantum phases is measured.

id: quant-ph/0308113
title: Quantum error correction in globally controlled arrays
authors: Adel Bririd, Simon C. Benjamin, Alastair Kay
comments: Extended version; 10 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308113
abstract: An interesting concept in quantum computation is that of global control (GC), where there is no need to manipulate qubits individually. One can implement a universal set of quantum gates on a one-dimensional array purely via signals that target the entire structure indiscriminately. But large-scale quantum computation imposes several requirements in terms of noise level, time, space (scaling) and in particular parallelism. Keeping in mind these requirements, we prove GC can support error-correction, by implementing two simple codes. This opens the way to fault-tolerant computation with this type of architecture.

id: quant-ph/0308114
title: The Bell-Kochen-Specker Theorem
authors: D. M. Appleby
comments: 22 pages
journal: Stud.Hist.Philos.Mod.Phys. 36 (2005) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308114
abstract: Meyer, Kent and Clifton (MKC) claim to have nullified the Bell-Kochen-Specker (Bell-KS) theorem. It is true that they invalidate KS's account of the theorem's physical implications. However, they do not invalidate Bell's point, that quantum mechanics is inconsistent with the classical assumption, that a measurement tells us about a property previously possessed by the system. This failure of classical ideas about measurement is, perhaps, the single most important implication of quantum mechanics. In a conventional colouring there are some remaining patches of white. MKC fill in these patches, but only at the price of introducing patches where the colouring becomes ''pathologically'' discontinuous. The discontinuities mean that the colours in these patches are empirically unknowable. We prove a general theorem which shows that their extent is at least as great as the patches of white in a conventional approach. The theorem applies, not only to the MKC colourings, but also to any other such attempt to circumvent the Bell-KS theorem (Pitowsky's colourings, for example). We go on to discuss the implications. MKC do not nullify the Bell-KS theorem. They do, however, show that we did not, hitherto, properly understand the theorem. For that reason their results (and Pitowsky's earlier results) are of major importance.

id: quant-ph/0308115
title: Measuring Controlled-NOT and two-qubit gate operation
authors: Andrew G. White, Alexei Gilchrist, Geoffrey J. Pryde, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Michael J. Bremner, Nathan K. Langford
comments: 10 pages (two-column). 1 figure
journal: J.Opt.Soc.Am.B24:172-183,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308115
abstract: Accurate characterisation of two-qubit gates will be critical for any realisation of quantum computation. We discuss a range of measurements aimed at characterising a two-qubit gate, specifically the CNOT gate. These measurements are architecture-independent, and range from simple truth table measurements, to single figure measures such as the fringe visibility, parity, fidelity, and entanglement witnesses, through to whole-state and whole-gate measures achieved respectively via quantum state and process tomography. In doing so, we examine critical differences between classical and quantum gate operation.

id: quant-ph/0308116
title: Bipartite entanglement and localization of one-particle states
authors: Haibin Li, Xiaoguang Wang, Bambi Hu
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures. Version 1
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, 10665 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308116
abstract: We study bipartite entanglement in a general one-particle state, and find that the linear entropy, quantifying the bipartite entanglement, is directly connected to the paricitpation ratio, charaterizing the state localization. The more extended the state is, the more entangled the state. We apply the general formalism to investigate ground-state and dynamical properties of entanglement in the one-dimensional Harper model.

id: quant-ph/0308117
title: Quantum dot single photon sources: Prospects for applications in linear optics quantum information processing
authors: A. Kiraz, M. Atature, A. Imamoglu
comments: revised manuscript, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308117
abstract: An optical source that produces single photon pulses on demand has potential applications in linear optics quantum computation, provided that stringent requirements on indistinguishability and collection efficiency of the generated photons are met. We show that these are conflicting requirements for anharmonic emitters that are incoherently pumped via reservoirs. As a model for a coherently pumped single photon source, we consider cavity-assisted spin-flip Raman transitions in a single charged quantum dot embedded in a microcavity. We demonstrate that using such a source, arbitrarily high collection efficiency and indistinguishability of the generated photons can be obtained simultaneously with increased cavity coupling. We analyze the role of errors that arise from distinguishability of the single photon pulses in linear optics quantum gates by relating the gate fidelity to the strength of the two-photon interference dip in photon cross-correlation measurements. We find that performing controlled phase operations with error < 1% requires nano-cavities with Purcell factors F_P >= 40 in the absence of dephasing, without necessitating the strong coupling limit.

id: quant-ph/0308118
title: Mode entanglement of electrons in the one-dimensional Frenkel-Kontorova model
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Haibin Li, Bambi Hu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. V1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 054303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308118
abstract: We study the mode entanglement in the one-dimensional Frenkel-Kontorova model, and found that behaviors of quantum entanglement are distinct before and after the transition by breaking of analyticity. We show that the more extended the electron is, the more entangled the corresponding state. Finally, a quantitative relation is given between the average square of the concurrence quantifying the degree of entanglement and the participation ratio characterizing the degree of localization.

id: quant-ph/0308119
title: Phase-space path-integral calculation of the Wigner function
authors: J. H. Samson
comments: 16 pages. Small number of typos corrected, including sign in eq A21
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 36, 10637 - 10650 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308119
abstract: The Wigner function W(q,p) is formulated as a phase-space path integral, whereby its sign oscillations can be seen to follow from interference between the geometrical phases of the paths. The approach has similarities to the path-centroid method in the configuration-space path integral. Paths can be classified by the mid-point of their ends; short paths where the mid-point is close to (q,p) and which lie in regions of low energy (low P function of the Hamiltonian) will dominate, and the enclosed area will determine the sign of the Wigner function. As a demonstration, the method is applied to a sequence of density matrices interpolating between a Poissonian number distribution and a number state, each member of which can be represented exactly by a discretized path integral with a finite number of vertices. Saddle point evaluation of these integrals recovers (up to a constant factor) the WKB approximation to the Wigner function of a number state.

id: quant-ph/0308120
title: Multiplicativity of Accessible Fidelity and Quantumness for Sets of Quantum States
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, C.A. Fuchs, C. King, A. Winter
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 4(1):1--11, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308120
abstract: Two measures of sensitivity to eavesdropping for alphabets of quantum states were recently introduced by Fuchs and Sasaki in quant-ph/0302092. These are the accessible fidelity and quantumness. In this paper we prove an important property of both measures: They are multiplicative under tensor products. The proof in the case of accessible fidelity shows a connection between the measure and characteristics of entanglement-breaking quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0308121
title: Quantum-state extraction from high-Q cavities
authors: M. Khanbekyan, L. Kn?ll, A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel, D.-G. Welsch
comments: RevTeX4, 9 pages with 6 figures; extended version as submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308121
abstract: The problem of extraction of a single-mode quantum state from a high-Q cavity is studied for the case in which the time of preparation of the quantum state of the cavity mode is short compared with its decay time. The temporal evolution of the quantum state of the field escaping from the cavity is calculated in terms of phase-space functions. A general condition is derived under which the quantum state of the pulse built up outside the cavity is a nearly perfect copy of the quantum state the cavity field was initially prepared in. The results show that unwanted losses prevent the realization of a nearly perfect extraction of nonclassical quantum states from high-Q optical microcavities with presently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0308122
title: Qubit Assisted Probing of Coherence Between States of a Macroscopic Apparatus
authors: Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308122
abstract: I present a general scheme through which the evidence of a superposition involving distinct classical-like states of a macroscopic system can be probed. The scheme relies on a qubit being coupled to a macroscopic harmonic oscillator in such a way that it can be used to both prepare and probe a macroscopic superposition. Two potentially realizable implementations, one with a flux qubit coupled to a LC circuit, and the other with an ion-trap qubit coupled to the collective motion of several ions, are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0308123
title: Comment on "Conservative Quantum Computing"
authors: Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 089801 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308123
abstract: A Comment on the paper "Conservative Quantum Computing" by M. Ozawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 057902 (2002). The author replies in Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 089802 (2003).

id: quant-ph/0308124
title: Comment on "Quantum waveguide array generator for performing Fourier transforms: Alternate route to quantum computing"
authors: Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 1 page
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 2419 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308124
abstract: A Comment on the paper "Quantum waveguide array generator for performing Fourier transforms: Alternate route to quantum computing" by R. Akis and D.K. Ferry, Appl. Phys. Lett. 79, 2823 (2001). The authors reply in Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 2420 (2002).

id: quant-ph/0308125
title: Quantum NP and a Quantum Hierarchy
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: The original abstract appeared in the Proceedings of the 2nd IFIP International Conference on Theoretical Computer Science (Foundations of Information Technology in the Era of Network and Mobile Computing), Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp.323-336, Montreal, August 26-29, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308125
abstract: The complexity class NP is quintessential and ubiquitous in theoretical computer science. Two different approaches have been made to define "Quantum NP," the quantum analogue of NP: NQP by Adleman, DeMarrais, and Huang, and QMA by Knill, Kitaev, and Watrous. From an operator point of view, NP can be viewed as the result of the exists-operator applied to P. Recently, Green, Homer, Moore, and Pollett proposed its quantum version, called the N-operator, which is an abstraction of NQP. This paper introduces the exists^{Q}-operator, which is an abstraction of QMA, and its complement, the forall^{Q}-operator. These operators not only define Quantum NP but also build a quantum hierarchy, similar to the Meyer-Stockmeyer polynomial hierarchy, based on two-sided bounded-error quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0308126
title: Entanglement and nonlocality versus spontaneous emission in two-atom system
authors: L. Jakobczyk, A. Jamroz
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 318(2003),318-326
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308126
abstract: We study evolution of entanglement of two two-level atoms in the presence of dissipation caused by spontaneous emission. We find explicit fromulas for the amount of entanglement as a function of time, in the case of destruction of the initial entanglement and possible creation of a transient entanglement between atoms. We also discuss how spontaneous emission influences nonlocality of states expressed by violation of Bell - CHSH inequality. It is shown that evolving system very quickly becomes local, even if entanglement is still present or produced.

id: quant-ph/0308127
title: Remote preparation of a single-mode photonic qubit by measuring field quadrature noise
authors: S. A. Babichev, B. Brezger, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 047903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308127
abstract: An electromagnetic field quadrature measurement, performed on one of the modes of the nonlocal single-photon state $a|1,0>-b|0,1>$, collapses it into a superposition of the single-photon and vacuum states in the other mode. We use this effect to implement remote preparation of arbitrary single-mode photonic qubits conditioned on observation of a preselected quadrature value. The quantum efficiency of the prepared qubit can be higher than that of the initial single photon.

id: quant-ph/0308128
title: New exact treatment of the perturbed Coulomb interactions
authors: Okan Ozer, Bulent Gonul
comments: 6 pages article in LaTEX (uses standard article.sty). No Figures. Please check "this http URL" for other studies of Nuclear Physics Group at University of Gaziantep
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, Vol. 18, No. 36 (2003) 2581-2586
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308128
abstract: A novel method for the exact solvability of quantum systems is discussed and used to obtain closed analytical expressions in arbitrary dimensions for the exact solutions of the hydrogenic atom in the external potential $\Delta V(r)=br+cr^{2}$, which is based on the recently introduced supersymmetric perturbation theory.

id: quant-ph/0308129
title: Single Atom Cooling by Superfluid Immersion: A Non-Destructive Method for Qubits
authors: A. J. Daley, P. O. Fedichev, P. Zoller
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308129
abstract: We present a scheme to cool the motional state of neutral atoms confined in sites of an optical lattice by immersing the system in a superfluid. The motion of the atoms is damped by the generation of excitations in the superfluid, and under appropriate conditions the internal state of the atom remains unchanged. This scheme can thus be used to cool atoms used to encode a series of entangled qubits non-destructively. Within realisable parameter ranges, the rate of cooling to the ground state is found to be sufficiently large to be useful in experiments.

id: quant-ph/0308130
title: Implementation for Solving Random Satisfiability Problems through CNOT-based circuits in a NMR Quantum Processor
authors: Xinhua Peng, Xiwen Zhu, Kelin Gao
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308130
abstract: We give a general method of construting quantum circuit for random \QTR{it}{satisfiability} (SAT) problems with the basic logic gates such as multi-qubit controlled-NOT and NOT gates. The sizes of these circuits are almost the same as the sizes of the SAT formulas. Further, a parallelization scheme is described to solve random SAT problems efficiently through these quantum circuits in \QTR{it}{nuclear magnetic resonance} (NMR) ensemble quantum computing. This scheme exploits truly mixed states as input states rather than pseudo-pure states, and combines with the topological nanture of the NMR spectrum to identify the solutions to SAT problems in a parallel way. Several typical SAT problems have been experimentally demonstrated by this scheme with good performances.

id: quant-ph/0308131
title: Quantum entangling power of adiabatically connected hamiltonians
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, 2 eps figures included. Several non minor changes made (thanks referee) Version to appear in the PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062319 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308131
abstract: The space of quantum Hamiltonians has a natural partition in classes of operators that can be adiabatically deformed into each other. We consider parametric families of Hamiltonians acting on a bi-partite quantum state-space. When the different Hamiltonians in the family fall in the same adiabatic class one can manipulate entanglement by moving through energy eigenstates corresponding to different value of the control parameters. We introduce an associated notion of adiabatic entangling power. This novel measure is analyzed for general $d\times d$ quantum systems and specific two-qubits examples are studied

id: quant-ph/0308132
title: Universal quantum control in irreducible state sectors: application to bosonic and spin-boson systems
authors: Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi, Seth Lloyd
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308132
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because it was just an early submission of quant-ph/0308133 with the wrong title. Sorry.

id: quant-ph/0308133
title: Universal quantum control in irreducible state-space sectors: application to bosonic and spin-boson systems
authors: Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi, Seth Lloyd
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308133
abstract: We analyze the dynamical-algebraic approach to universal quantum control introduced in P. Zanardi, S. Lloyd, quant-ph/0305013. The quantum state-space $\cal H$ encoding information decomposes into irreducible sectors and subsystems associated to the group of available evolutions. If this group coincides with the unitary part of the group-algebra $\CC{\cal K}$ of some group $\cal K$ then universal control is achievable over the ${\cal K}$-irreducible components of $\cal H$. This general strategy is applied to different kind of bosonic systems. We first consider massive bosons in a double-well and show how to achieve universal control over all finite-dimensional Fock sectors. We then discuss a multi-mode massless case giving the conditions for generating the whole infinite-dimensional multi-mode Heisenberg-Weyl enveloping-algebra. Finally we show how to use an auxiliary bosonic mode coupled to finite-dimensional systems to generate high-order non-linearities needed for universal control.

id: quant-ph/0308134
title: Experimental nonlinear sign shift for linear optics quantum computation
authors: Kaoru Sanaka, Thomas Jennewein, Jian-Wei Pan, Kevin Resch, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 017902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308134
abstract: We have realized the nonlinear sign shift (NS) operation for photonic qubits.This operation shifts the phase of two photons reflected by a beam splitter using an extra single photon and measurement. We show that the conditional phase shift is $(1.05\pm 0.06) \pi $ in clear agreement with theory. Our results show that by using an ancilla photon and conditional detection, nonlinear optical effects can be implemented using only linear optical elements. This experiment represents an essential step for linear optical implementations of scalable quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0308135
title: Demonstration of superluminal effects in an absorptionless, non-reflective system
authors: D. R. Solli, C. F. McCormick, C. Ropers, J. J. Morehead, R. Y. Chiao, J. M. Hickmann
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted on Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308135
abstract: We present an experimental and theoretical study of a simple, passive system consisting of a birefringent, two-dimensional photonic crystal and a polarizer in series, and show that superluminal dispersive effects can arise even though no incident radiation is absorbed or reflected. We demonstrate that a vector formulation of the Kramers-Kronig dispersion relations facilitates an understanding of these counter-intuitive effects.

id: quant-ph/0308136
title: Proton Zemach radius from measurements of the hyperfine splitting of hydrogen and muonic hydrogen
authors: Arnaud Dupays, Alberto Beswick, Bruno Lepetit, Carlo Rizzo, Dimitar Bakalov
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308136
abstract: While measurements of the hyperfine structure of hydrogen-like atoms are traditionally regarded as test of bound-state QED, we assume that theoretical QED predictions are accurate and discuss the information about the electromagnetic structure of protons that could be extracted from the experimental values of the ground state hyperfine splitting in hydrogen and muonic hydrogen. Using recent theoretical results on the proton polarizability effects and the experimental hydrogen hyperfine splitting we obtain for the Zemach radius of the proton the value 1.040(16) fm. We compare it to the various theoretical estimates the uncertainty of which is shown to be larger that 0.016 fm. This point of view gives quite convincing arguments in support of projects to measure the hyperfine splitting of muonic hydrogen.

id: quant-ph/0308137
title: What is the value of an observable between pre- and postselection?
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 5 pages, accepted in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 322 (2004) 298-300
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308137
abstract: Hall's recent derivation of an exact uncertainty relation [Phys. Rev. A64, 052103 (2001)] is revisited. It is found that the Bayes estimator of an observable between pre- and postselection equals the real part of the weak value. The quadratic loss function equals the expectation of the squared imaginary part of the weak value.

id: quant-ph/0308138
title: New criteria of separability for tripartite and more high dimensional multipartite qubit density matrixes
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: REVTex, 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308138
abstract: In this Letter we find the new criteria of separability of multipartite qubit density matrixes. Especially, we discuss in detail the criteria of separability for tripartite qubit density matrixes. We find the sufficient and necessary conditions of separability for tripartite qubit density matrixes, and give two corollaries. The second corollary can be taken as the criterion of existence of entanglement for tripartite qubit density matrixes. In concrete application, its steps are quite simple and easy to operate. Some examples, discussions and the generalization to more high dimensional multipartite qubit density matrixes are given.

id: quant-ph/0308139
title: Concurrence Vectors for Entanglement of High-dimensional Systems
authors: You-Quan Li, Guo-Qiang Zhu
comments: Revtex4, 7 pages, 3 figures; extended with 3 more pages
journal: Front. Phys. China, 3(3), 250-257 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308139
abstract: The concurrence vectors are proposed by employing the fundamental representation of $A_n$ Lie algebra, which provides a clear criterion to evaluate the entanglement of bipartite system of arbitrary dimension for both pure and mixed states. Accordingly, a state is separable if the norm of its concurrence vector vanishes. The state vectors related to SU(3) states and SO(3) states are discussed in detail. The sign situation of nonzero components of concurrence vectors of entangled bases presents a simple criterion to judge whether the whole Hilbert subspace spanned by those bases is entangled, or there exists entanglement edge. This is illustrated in terms of the concurrence surfaces of several concrete examples.

id: quant-ph/0308140
title: Approximation of Various Quantum Query Types
authors: Arvid J. Bessen
comments: New version. To be published in the Journal of Complexity in August. Extended by an additional section
journal: Journal of Complexity, Volume 20, Issue 5 (October 2004), Pages: 699 - 712
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308140
abstract: Query complexity measures the amount of information an algorithm needs about a problem to compute a solution. On a quantum computer there are different realizations of a query and we will show that these are not always equivalent. Our definition of equivalence is based on the ability to simulate (or approximate) one query type by another. We show that a bit query can always approximate a phase query with just two queries, while there exist problems for which the number of phase queries which are necessary to approximate a bit query must grow exponentially with the precision of the bit query. This result follows from the query complexity bounds for the evaluation problem, for which we establish a strong lower bound for the number of phase queries by exploiting a relation between quantum algorithms and trigonometric polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0308141
title: High-Multipolar Effects on Dispersive Forces
authors: Cecilia Noguez, Carlos E. Roman-Velazquez, R. Esquivel-Sirvent, C. Villarreal
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 67, 191 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308141
abstract: We show that the dispersive force between a spherical nanoparticle (with a radius $\le$ 100 nm) and a substrate is enhanced by several orders of magnitude when the sphere is near to the substrate. We calculate exactly the dispersive force in the non-retarded limit by incorporating the contributions to the interaction from of all the multipolar electromagnetic modes. We show that as the sphere approaches the substrate, the fluctuations of the electromagnetic field, induced by the vacuum and the presence of the substrate, the dispersive force is enhanced by orders of magnitude. We discuss this effect as a function of the size of the sphere.

id: quant-ph/0308142
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases, Generalized Spin Matrices and Separability
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: Linear Alg. Appl. 390, 255 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308142
abstract: A collection of orthonormal bases for a complex dXd Hilbert space is called mutually unbiased (MUB) if for any two vectors v and w from different bases the square of the inner product equals 1/d: |<v,w>| ^{2}=1/d. The MUB problem is to prove or disprove the the existence of a maximal set of d+1 bases. It has been shown in [W. K. Wootters, B. D. Fields, Annals of Physics, 191, no. 2, 363-381, (1989)] that such a collection exists if d is a power of a prime number p. We revisit this problem and use dX d generalizations of the Pauli spin matrices to give a constructive proof of this result. Specifically we give explicit representations of commuting families of unitary matrices whose eigenvectors solve the MUB problem. Additionally we give formulas from which the orthogonal bases can be readily computed. We show how the techniques developed here provide a natural way to analyze the separability of the bases. The techniques used require properties of algebraic field extensions, and the relevant part of that theory is included in an Appendix.

id: quant-ph/0308143
title: Generalized remote state preparation: Trading cbits, qubits and ebits in quantum communication
authors: Anura Abeyesinghe, Patrick Hayden
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68:062319, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308143
abstract: We consider the problem of communicating quantum states by simultaneously making use of a noiseless classical channel, a noiseless quantum channel and shared entanglement. We specifically study the version of the problem in which the sender is given knowledge of the state to be communicated. In this setting, a trade-off arises between the three resources, some portions of which have been investigated previously in the contexts of the quantum-classical trade-off in data compression, remote state preparation and superdense coding of quantum states, each of which amounts to allowing just two out of these three resources. We present a formula for the triple resource trade-off that reduces its calculation to evaluating the data compression trade-off formula. In the process, we also construct protocols achieving all the optimal points. These turn out to be achievable by trade-off coding and suitable time-sharing between optimal protocols for cases involving two resources out of the three mentioned above.

id: quant-ph/0308144
title: Photon generation from vacuum in nondegenerate cavities with regular and random periodic displacements of boundaries
authors: A.V. Dodonov, E.V. Dodonov, V.V. Dodonov
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, LaTex; to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, v.317, no.5-6, p.378-388 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308144
abstract: We study the influence of fluctuations in periodic motion of boundaries of an ideal three-dimensional cavity on the rate of photon generation from vacuum due to the nonstationary Casimir effect.

id: quant-ph/0308145
title: Capacitive coupling of atomic systems to mesoscopic conductors
authors: Anders S. Sorensen, Caspar H. van der Wal, Lilian Childress, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, including one figure. v2: Improved discussion of surface effects
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308145
abstract: We describe a technique that enables a strong, coherent coupling between isolated neutral atoms and mesoscopic conductors. The coupling is achieved by exciting atoms trapped above the surface of a superconducting transmission line into Rydberg states with large electric dipole moments, that induce voltage fluctuations in the transmission line. Using a mechanism analogous to cavity quantum electrodynamics an atomic state can be transferred to a long-lived mode of the fluctuating voltage, atoms separated by millimeters can be entangled, or the quantum state of a solid state device can be mapped onto atomic or photonic states.

id: quant-ph/0308146
title: Sealing quantum message by quantum code
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 4 pages in revtex 4 plus 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308146
abstract: Quantum error correcting code is a useful tool to combat noise in quantum computation. It is also an important ingredient in a number of unconditionally secure quantum key distribution schemes. Here, I am going to show that quantum code can also be used to seal a quantum message. Specifically, every one can still read the content of the sealed quantum message. But, any such attempt can be detected by an authorized verifier with an exponentially close to one probability

id: quant-ph/0308147
title: Entropic uncertainty relations for the ground state of a coupled system
authors: M. S. Santhanam
comments: 8 pages, 6 figs., revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042301 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308147
abstract: There is a renewed interest in the uncertainty principle, reformulated from the information theoretic point of view, called the entropic uncertainty relations. They have been studied for various integrable systems as a function of their quantum numbers. In this work, focussing on the ground state of a nonlinear, coupled Hamiltonian system, we show that approximate eigenstates can be can be constructed within the framework of adiabatic theory. Using the adiabatic eigenstates, we estimate the information entropies and their sum as a function of the the nonlinearity parameter. We also briefly look at the information entropies for the highly excited states in the system.

id: quant-ph/0308148
title: Control-target inversion property on Abelian groups
authors: Massoud Amini
comments: 9 pages, no figures, MSC: 81P68
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308148
abstract: We show that the quantum Fourier transform on finite fields used to solve query problems is a special case of the usual quantum Fourier transform on finite abelian groups. We show that the control/target inversion property holds in general. We apply this to get a sharp query complexity separation between classical and quantum algorithms for a hidden homomorphism problem on finite Abelian groups.

id: quant-ph/0308149
title: Quantum error-correction codes on Abelian groups
authors: Massoud Amini
comments: 13 pages, no figures, MSC: 81P68
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308149
abstract: We prove a general form of bit flip formula for the quantum Fourier transform on finite abelian groups and use it to encode some general CSS codes on these groups.

id: quant-ph/0308150
title: Statistical Model with Measurement Degree of Freedom and Quantum Physics
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: This is an English translation of the manuscript which appeared in Surikaiseki Kenkyusho Kokyuroku No. 1055 (1998)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308150
abstract: This is an English translation of the manuscript which appeared in Surikaiseki Kenkyusho Kokyuroku No. 1055 (1998). The asymptotic efficiency of statistical estimate of unknown quantum states is discussed, both in adaptive and collective settings. Aaptive bounds are written in sigle letterized form, and collective bounds are written in limitting expression. Our arguments clarify mathematical regularity conditions.

id: quant-ph/0308151
title: Graphical description of the action of local Clifford transformations on graph states
authors: Maarten Van den Nest, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. Former title: "The evolution of graph states under local Clifford operations as graph transformations". Replaced with revised version. Minor changes. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022316 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308151
abstract: We translate the action of local Clifford operations on graph states into transformations on their associated graphs - i.e. we provide transformation rules, stated in purely graph theoretical terms, which completely characterize the evolution of graph states under local Clifford operations. As we will show, there is essentially one basic rule, successive application of which generates the orbit of any graph state under local unitary operations within the Clifford group.

id: quant-ph/0308152
title: A Pulse Shaping Algorithm of a Coherent Matter Wave. Controlling Reaction Dynamics
authors: Solvejg Jorgensen, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308152
abstract: A pulse shaping algorithm for a matter wave with the purpose of controlling a binary reaction has been designed. The scheme is illustrated for an Eley-Rideal reaction where an impinging matter-wave atom recombines with an adsorbed atom on a metal surface. The wave function of the impinging atom is shaped such that the desorbing molecule leaves the surface in a specific vibrational state.

id: quant-ph/0308153
title: Limit to non-destructive optical detection of atoms
authors: J. J. Hope, J. D. Close
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308153
abstract: All optical techniques used to probe the properties of Bose-Einstein condensates have been based on dispersion and absorption that can be described by a two-level atom. Both phenomena lead to spontaneous emission that is destructive. Recently, both were shown to lead to the same limit to the signal to noise ratio for a given destruction. We generalise this result to show that no single-pass optical technique using classical light, based on any number of lasers or coherences between any number of levels, can exceed the limit imposed by the two-level atom. This puts significant restrictions on potential non-destructive measurement schemes.

id: quant-ph/0308154
title: Crossover from classical to quantum behavior of Duffing oscillator through "pseudo-Lyapunov exponent"
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Ichiro Ohba
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 015201 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308154
abstract: We discuss the quantum--classical correspondence in a specific dissipative chaotic system, Duffing oscillator. We quantize it on the basis of quantum state diffusion (QSD) which is a certain formulation for open quantum systems and an effective tool for analyzing complex problems numerically. We consider a sensitivity to initial conditions, `` pseudo-Lyapunov exponent '', and investigate it in detail, varying Planck constant effectively. We show that in a dissipative system there exists a certain critical stage in which the crossover from classical to quantum behavior occurs. Furthermore, we show that an effect of dissipation suppresses the occurrence of chaos in the quantum region, while it, combined with the periodic external force, plays a crucial role in the chaotic behaviors of classical system.

id: quant-ph/0308155
title: Coherent interaction of laser pulses in a resonant optically dense extended medium under the regime of strong field-matter coupling
authors: V. S. Egorov, V. N. Lebedev, I. B. Mekhov, P. V. Moroshkin, I. A. Chekhonin, S. N. Bagayev
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, p. 033804 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308155
abstract: Nonstationary pump-probe interaction between short laser pulses propagating in a resonant optically dense coherent medium is considered. A special attention is paid to the case, where the density of two-level particles is high enough that a considerable part of the energy of relatively weak external laser-fields can be coherently absorbed and reemitted by the medium. Thus, the field of medium reaction plays a key role in the interaction processes, which leads to the collective behavior of an atomic ensemble in the strongly coupled light-matter system. Such behavior results in the fast excitation interchanges between the field and a medium in the form of the optical ringing, which is analogous to polariton beating in the solid-state optics. This collective oscillating response, which can be treated as successive beats between light wave-packets of different group velocities, is shown to significantly affect propagation and amplification of the probe field under its nonlinear interaction with a nearly copropagating pump pulse. Depending on the probe-pump time delay, the probe transmission spectra show the appearance of either specific doublet or coherent dip. The widths of these features are determined by the density-dependent field-matter coupling coefficient and increase during the propagation. Besides that, the widths of the coherent features, which appear close to the resonance in the broadband probe-spectrum, exceed the absorption-line width, since, under the strong-coupling regime, the frequency of the optical ringing exceeds the rate of incoherent relaxation. Contrary to the stationary strong-field effects, the density- and coordinate-dependent transmission spectra of the probe manifest the importance of the collective oscillations and cannot be obtained in the framework of the single-atom model.

id: quant-ph/0308156
title: Quantum Entanglement under Lorentz Boost
authors: Daeho Lee, Ee Chang-Young
comments: LaTeX file, 24 pages, a version to appear in New Journal of Physics, Add a further specific case and comment on the spin state transformation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308156
abstract: In order to understand the characteristics of quantum entanglement of massive particles under Lorentz boost, we first introduce a relevant relativistic spin observable, and evaluate its expectation values for the Bell states under Lorentz boost. Then we show that maximal violation of the Bell's inequality can be achieved by properly adjusting the directions of the spin measurement even in a relativistically moving inertial frame. Based on this we infer that the entanglement information is preserved under Lorentz boost as a form of correlation information determined by the transformation characteristic of the Bell state in use.

id: quant-ph/0308157
title: Novel Identification of Symmetric and Anti-Symmetric Quantum Functions
authors: John Robert Burger
comments: Material is repeated in another paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308157
abstract: Procedures are given below to construct symmetric and anti-symmetric quantum functions. If hidden in an oracle, such functions can be identified exactly, without iterative interrogation. This is another example of quantum search. The resulting positive (or negative) functions also serve to uniquely reorganize a superposition of states to give a basis state for testing purposes.

id: quant-ph/0308158
title: New Approachs to Quantum Computer Simulaton in a Classical Supercomputer
authors: John Robert Burger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308158
abstract: Classical simulation is important because it sets a benchmark for quantum computer performance. Classical simulation is currently the only way to exercise larger numbers of qubits. To achieve larger simulations, sparse matrix processing is emphasized below while trading memory for processing. It performed well within NCSA supercomputers, giving a state vector in convenient continuous portions ready for post processing.

id: quant-ph/0308159
title: Separability and entanglement in 2x3xN composite quantum systems
authors: S.M. Fei, X.H. Gao, X.H. Wang, Z.X. Wang, K. Wu
comments: Latex, 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 022315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308159
abstract: The separability and entanglement of quantum mixed states in $\Cb^2 \otimes \Cb^3 \otimes \Cb^N$ composite quantum systems are investigated. It is shown that all quantum states $\rho$ with positive partial transposes and rank $r(\rho)\leq N$ are separable.

id: quant-ph/0308160
title: Indistinguishability and the external correlation of mixtures
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 13pp. Replaces quant-ph/0110052 v2: Numerous small edits. Thm 6 proof improved. Main reason for post: My working e-mail address, <kirkpatrick@nmhu.edu> (address on abstract page may be broken)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308160
abstract: Experimental evidence, the heuristics of indistinguishability, and its logical inconsistency with quantum formalism all argue against the existence of a quantum mixture uncorrelated with the exterior, that is, argue for the postulate "The state of a system uncorrelated with its exterior is pure." This is shown to be equivalent with "The state of a system describable in terms of indistinguishable pure states is pure," and with "The state of the universe is pure"; further, it yields a quantitative expression of the traditional relation of welcher Weg information to partial coherence. It is concluded that all mixtures are "improper," the trace-reduction of a composite system's pure state.

id: quant-ph/0308161
title: Nonclassical degree of states of single and bipartite systems
authors: A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia, J. M. C. Malbouisson
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308161
abstract: We consider experimental routes to determine the nonclassical degree of states of a field mode. We adopt a distance-type criterium based on the Hilbert-Schmidt metric to quantify the nonclassicality. The concept of nonclassical degree is extended for states of bipartite systems, allowing us to discuss a possible connection between nonclassicality and entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0308162
title: Intrinsic Decoherence and Irreversibility in the Quasiperiodic Kicked Rotor
authors: A.C. Sicardi Shifino, G. Abal, R. Siri, A. Romanelli, R. Donangelo
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308162
abstract: We show that some classically chaotic quantum systems uncoupled from noisy environments may generate intrinsic decoherence with all its associated effects. In particular, we have observed time irreversibility and high sensitivity to small perturbations in the initial conditions in a quasiperiodic version of the kicked rotor. The existence of simple quantum systems with intrinsic decoherence clarifies the quantum--classical correspondence in chaotic systems.

id: quant-ph/0308163
title: Quantum Darwinism and Envariance
authors: W. H. Zurek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308163
abstract: Effective classicality of a property of a quantum system can be defined using redundancy of its record in the environment. This allows quantum physics to approximate the situation encountered in the classical world: The information about a classical system can exist independently from its state. In quantum theory this is no longer possible: In an isolated quantum system the state and the information about it are inextricably linked, and any measurement may -- and usually will -- reset that state. However, when the information about the state of a quantum system is spread throughout the environment, it can be treated (almost) as in classical physics.

id: quant-ph/0308164
title: Estimation of the Local Density of States on a Quantum Computer
authors: Joseph Emerson, Seth Lloyd, David Poulin, David Cory
comments: 4 pages (revtex) including 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 050305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308164
abstract: We report an efficient quantum algorithm for estimating the local density of states (LDOS) on a quantum computer. The LDOS describes the redistribution of energy levels of a quantum system under the influence of a perturbation. Sometimes known as the ``strength function'' from nuclear spectroscopy experiments, the shape of the LDOS is directly related to the survivial probability of unperturbed eigenstates, and has recently been related to the fidelity decay (or ``Loschmidt echo'') under imperfect motion-reversal. For quantum systems that can be simulated efficiently on a quantum computer, the LDOS estimation algorithm enables an exponential speed-up over direct classical computation.

id: quant-ph/0308165
title: Quantum entanglement and fixed-point bifurcations
authors: Andrew P. Hines, G.J. Milburn, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: v2: Structure of the paper changed for clarity, reduced length, now 9 pages with 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308165
abstract: How does the classical phase space structure for a composite system relate to the entanglement characteristics of the corresponding quantum system? We demonstrate how the entanglement in nonlinear bipartite systems can be associated with a fixed point bifurcation in the classical dynamics. Using the example of coupled giant spins we show that when a fixed point undergoes a supercritical pitchfork bifurcation, the corresponding quantum state - the ground state - achieves its maximum amount of entanglement near the critical point. We conjecture that this will be a generic feature of systems whose classical limit exhibits such a bifurcation.

id: quant-ph/0308166
title: No "No-Go"
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308166
abstract: In spite of the very common opinion we show that QM is not complete and that it is possible to create prequantum models providing finer description of physical reality than QM. There exists (at least in theoretical models) dispersion free states and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle can be violated. Thus in spite of all ``No-Go'' theorems (e.g., von Neumann, Kochen and Specker,..., Bell) we found a realist basis of quantum mechanics. I think that our model would totally satisfy A. Einstein who was sure that QM is not complete and a finer description is possible.

id: quant-ph/0308167
title: Optimal quantum circuit synthesis from Controlled-U gates
authors: Jun Zhang, Jiri Vala, Shankar Sastry, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: A revised version is published as Phys. Rev. A 69, 042309 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308167
abstract: From a geometric approach, we derive the minimum number of applications needed for an arbitrary Controlled-Unitary gate to construct a universal quantum circuit. A new analytic construction procedure is presented and shown to be either optimal or close to optimal. This result can be extended to improve the efficiency of universal quantum circuit construction from any entangling gate. Specifically, for both the Controlled-NOT and Double-CNOT gates, we develop simple analytic ways to construct universal quantum circuits with three applications, which is the least possible.

id: quant-ph/0308168
title: On the additivity conjecture for channels with arbitrary constraints
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308168
abstract: Recently Shor proved equivalence of several open (sub)additivity problems related to the Holevo capacity and the entanglement of formation [15]. In our previous note [6] equivalence of these to the additivity of the Holevo capacity for channels with arbitrary linear constraints was shown. This note is the development of the previous one in the direction of channels with general constraints. Introducing input constraints provides greater flexibility in the treatment of the additivity conjecture. The Holevo capacity of arbitrarily constrained channel is considered and the characteristic property of an optimal ensemble for such channel is derived, generalizing the maximal distance property of Schumacher and Westmoreland (proposition 1). It is shown that the additivity conjecture for two channels with single linear constraints is equivalent to the similar conjecture for two arbitrarily constrained channels and, hence, to an interesting subadditivity property of the $\chi$-function for the tensor product of these channels (theorem 1). We also propose an alternative way of proving that the additivity conjecture for any two unconstrained channels implies strong superadditivity of the entanglement of formation. The arguments from the convex analysis provide another characterization of channels for which subadditivity of the $\chi $-function holds (theorem 3). This characterization and some modification of Shor's channel extension provide a simple way of proving that global additivity of the minimum output entropy for unconstrained channels implies global subadditivity of the $\chi $-function and strong superadditivity of the entanglement of formation.

id: quant-ph/0308169
title: Resonance fluorescence of a trapped three-level atom
authors: Marc Bienert, Wolfgang Merkel, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 11 pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 013405 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308169
abstract: We investigate theoretically the spectrum of resonance fluorescence of a harmonically trapped atom, whose internal transitions are $\Lambda$--shaped and driven at two-photon resonance by a pair of lasers, which cool the center--of--mass motion. For this configuration, photons are scattered only due to the mechanical effects of the quantum interaction between light and atom. We study the spectrum of emission in the final stage of laser--cooling, when the atomic center-of-mass dynamics is quantum mechanical and the size of the wave packet is much smaller than the laser wavelength (Lamb--Dicke limit). We use the spectral decomposition of the Liouville operator of the master equation for the atomic density matrix and apply second order perturbation theory. We find that the spectrum of resonance fluorescence is composed by two narrow sidebands -- the Stokes and anti-Stokes components of the scattered light -- while all other signals are in general orders of magnitude smaller. For very low temperatures, however, the Mollow--type inelastic component of the spectrum becomes visible. This exhibits novel features which allow further insight into the quantum dynamics of the system. We provide a physical model that interprets our results and discuss how one can recover temperature and cooling rate of the atom from the spectrum. The behaviour of the considered system is compared with the resonance fluorescence of a trapped atom whose internal transition consists of two-levels.

id: quant-ph/0308170
title: L'argument Einstein Podolsky Rosen (EPR) : Paradoxe, Alternative, Demonstration
authors: Pierre Roussel
comments: publication interne IPNO DR 02-20 (2002-2003) en liaison avec un seminaire : "Le chat de Schrodinger : un agent retourne." IPNO juin 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308170
abstract: The EPR (Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen) argument and the Schrodinger cat paradox are revisited in relation with modern quantum optics and atomic physics and with the concept of decoherence. It is shown that the questions raised fifty years ago are still at the heart of our understanding of quantum physics today.

id: quant-ph/0308171
title: Implementing Shor's algorithm on Josephson Charge Qubits
authors: Juha J. Vartiainen, Antti O. Niskanen, Mikio Nakahara, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 12 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308171
abstract: We investigate the physical implementation of Shor's factorization algorithm on a Josephson charge qubit register. While we pursue a universal method to factor a composite integer of any size, the scheme is demonstrated for the number 21. We consider both the physical and algorithmic requirements for an optimal implementation when only a small number of qubits is available. These aspects of quantum computation are usually the topics of separate research communities; we present a unifying discussion of both of these fundamental features bridging Shor's algorithm to its physical realization using Josephson junction qubits. In order to meet the stringent requirements set by a short decoherence time, we accelerate the algorithm by decomposing the quantum circuit into tailored two- and three-qubit gates and we find their physical realizations through numerical optimization.

id: quant-ph/0308172
title: Controlled order rearrangement encryption for quantum key distribution
authors: Fe-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 5 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A68, 042315 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308172
abstract: A novel technique is devised to perform orthogonal state quantum key distribution. In this scheme, entangled parts of a quantum information carrier are sent from Alice to Bob through two quantum channels. However before the transmission, the orders of the quantum information carrier in one channel is reordered so that Eve can not steal useful information. At the receiver's end, the order of the quantum information carrier is restored. The order rearrangement operation in both parties is controlled by a prior shared control key which is used repeatedly in a quantum key distribution session.

id: quant-ph/0308173
title: A Two-Step Quantum Direct Communication Protocol Using Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Pair Block
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long, Xiao-Shu Liu
comments: 8 pages and 2 figures. To appear in Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A68, 042317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308173
abstract: A protocol for quantum secure direct communication using blocks of EPR pairs is proposed. A set of ordered $N$ EPR pairs is used as a data block for sending secret message directly. The ordered $N$ EPR set is divided into two particle sequences, a checking sequence and a message-coding sequence. After transmitting the checking sequence, the two parties of communication check eavesdropping by measuring a fraction of particles randomly chosen, with random choice of two sets of measuring bases. After insuring the security of the quantum channel, the sender, Alice encodes the secret message directly on the message-coding sequence and send them to Bob. By combining the checking and message-coding sequences together, Bob is able to read out the encoded messages directly. The scheme is secure because an eavesdropper cannot get both sequences simultaneously. We also discuss issues in a noisy channel.

id: quant-ph/0308174
title: Proof-of-Concept Experiments for Quantum Physics in Space
authors: Rainer Kaltenbaek, Markus Aspelmeyer, Thomas Jennewein, Caslav Brukner, Martin Pfennigbauer, Walter R. Leeb, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, to appear in: SPIE Proceedings on Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0308174
abstract: Quantum physics experiments in space using entangled photons and satellites are within reach of current technology. We propose a series of fundamental quantum physics experiments that make advantageous use of the space infrastructure with specific emphasis on the satellite-based distribution of entangled photon pairs. The experiments are feasible already today and will eventually lead to a Bell-experiment over thousands of kilometers, thus demonstrating quantum correlations over distances which cannot be achieved by purely earth-bound experiments.

id: cond-mat/0308025
title: Multi-level quantum description of decoherence in superconducting qubits
authors: Guido Burkard, Roger H. Koch, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures; v2: important simplification of results added, Appendix added, new figure, typos corrected; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 064503 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308025
abstract: We present a multi-level quantum theory of decoherence for a general circuit realization of a superconducting qubit. Using electrical network graph theory, we derive a Hamiltonian for the circuit. The dissipative circuit elements (external impedances, shunt resistors) are described using the Caldeira-Leggett model. The master equation for the superconducting phases in the Born-Markov approximation is derived and brought into the Bloch-Redfield form in order to describe multi-level dissipative quantum dynamics of the circuit. The model takes into account leakage effects, i.e. transitions from the allowed qubit states to higher excited states of the system. As a special case, we truncate the Hilbert space and derive a two-level (Bloch) theory with characteristic relaxation (T_1) and decoherence (T_2) times. We apply our theory to the class of superconducting flux qubits; however, the formalism can be applied for both superconducting flux and charge qubits.

id: cond-mat/0308107
title: Compensation of decoherence from telegraph noise by means of bang-bang control
authors: H. Gutmann, F.K. Wilhelm, W.M. Kaminsky, S. Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; update of references, slight changes of figure layout
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308107
abstract: With the growing efforts in isolating solid-state qubits from external decoherence sources, the origins of noise inherent to the material start to play a relevant role. One representative example are charged impurities in the device material or substrate, which typically produce telegraph noise and can hence be modelled as bistable fluctuators. In order to demonstrate the possibility of the active suppression of the disturbance from a {\em single} fluctuator, we theoretically implement an elementary bang-bang control protocol. We numerically simulate the random walk of the qubit state on the Bloch sphere with and without bang-bang compensation by means of the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation and compare it with an analytical saddle point solution of the corresponding Langevin equation in the long-time limit. We find that the deviation with respect to the noiseless case is significantly reduced when bang-bang pulses are applied, being scaled down approximately by the ratio of the bang-bang period and the typical flipping time of the bistable fluctuation. Our analysis gives not only the effect of bang-bang control on the variance of these deviations, but also their entire distribution. As a result, we expect that bang-bang control works as a high-pass filter on the spectrum of noise sources. This indicates how the influence of $1/f$-noise ubiquitous to the solid state world can be reduced.

id: cond-mat/0308113
title: Optical detection of fractional particle number in an atomic Fermi-Dirac gas
authors: Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 150404
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308113
abstract: We study theoretically a Fermi-Dirac atomic gas in a one-dimensional optical lattice coupled to a coherent electromagnetic field with a topologically nontrivial soliton phase profile. We argue that the resulting fractional eigenvalues of the particle number operator can be detected via light scattering. This could be a truly quantum mechanical measurement of the particle number fractionalization in a dilute atomic gas.

id: cond-mat/0308118
title: Spin Qubits in Multi-Electron Quantum Dots
authors: Serguei Vorojtsov, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, Harold U. Baranger
comments: RevTex, 6 pages, 5 figures. v3: two figures added, more details provided. Accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 115329 (2004) (6 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308118
abstract: We study the effect of mesoscopic fluctuations on the magnitude of errors that can occur in exchange operations on quantum dot spin-qubits. Mid-size double quantum dots, with an odd number of electrons in the range of a few tens in each dot, are investigated through the constant interaction model using realistic parameters. It is found that the constraint of having short pulses and small errors implies keeping accurate control, at the few percent level, of several electrode voltages. In practice, the number of independent parameters per dot that one should tune depends on the configuration and ranges from one to four.

id: cond-mat/0308124
title: Numerical study of hydrogenic effective mass theory for an impurity P donor in Si in the presence of an electric field and interfaces
authors: L.M. Kettle, H.S. Goan, Sean C. Smith, C.J. Wellard, L.C.L. Hollenberg, C.I. Pakes
comments: 7 pages, 2 tables, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 68, 075317 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308124
abstract: In this paper we examine the effects of varying several experimental parameters in the Kane quantum computer architecture: A-gate voltage, the qubit depth below the silicon oxide barrier, and the back gate depth to explore how these variables affect the electron density of the donor electron. In particular, we calculate the resonance frequency of the donor nuclei as a function of these parameters. To do this we calculated the donor electron wave function variationally using an effective mass Hamiltonian approach, using a basis of deformed hydrogenic orbitals. This approach was then extended to include the electric field Hamiltonian and the silicon host geometry. We found that the phosphorous donor electron was very sensitive to all the experimental variables studied in our work, and thus to optimise the operation of these devices it is necessary to control all parameters varied in this paper.

id: cond-mat/0308210
title: A Quantum Non-demolition measurement of Fock states of mesoscopic mechanical oscillators
authors: D.H. Santamore, A.C. Doherty, M.C. Cross
comments: revised, 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 144301 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308210
abstract: We investigate a scheme that makes a quantum non-demolition measurement of the excitation level of a mesoscopic mechanical oscillator by utilizing the anharmonic coupling between two elastic beam bending modes. The non-linear coupling between the two modes shifts the resonant frequency of the readout oscillator proportionate to the excitation of the system oscillator. This frequency shift may be detected as a phase shift of the readout oscillation when driven on resonance. We show that in an appropriate regime this measurement approaches a quantum non-demolition measurement of the phonon number of the system oscillator. As phonon energies in micromechanical oscillators become comparable to or greater than the thermal energy, the individual phonon dynamics within each mode can be resolved. As a result it should be possible to monitor jumps between Fock states caused by the coupling of the system to the thermal reservoirs.

id: cond-mat/0308297
title: Dephasing of solid-state qubits at optimal points
authors: Yuriy Makhlin, Alexander Shnirman
comments: minor corrections and clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 178301 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308297
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments with Josephson-junction circuits, we analyze the influence of various noise sources on the dynamics of two-level systems at optimal operation points where the linear coupling to low-frequency fluctuations is suppressed. We study the decoherence due to nonlinear (quadratic) coupling, focusing on the experimentally relevant 1/f and Ohmic noise power spectra. For 1/f noise strong higher-order effects influence the evolution.

id: cond-mat/0308302
title: Charge shelving and bias spectroscopy for the readout of a charge-qubit on the basis of superposition states
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, A. R. Hamilton, F. Green
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, note slightly changed title, replaced with journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 041305(R) (2004)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308302
abstract: Charge-based qubits have been proposed as fundamental elements for quantum computers. One commonly proposed readout device is the single-electron transistor (SET). SETs can distinguish between localized charge states, but lack the sensitivity to directly distinguish superposition states, which have greatly enhanced coherence times compared with position states. We propose introducing a third dot, and exploiting energy dependent tunnelling from the qubit into this dot (bias spectroscopy) for pseudo-spin to charge conversion and superposition basis readout. We introduce an adiabatic fast passage-style charge pumping technique which enables efficient and robust readout via charge shelving, avoiding problems due to finite SET measurement time.

id: cond-mat/0308323
title: Sub-microsecond correlations in photoluminescence from InAs quantum dots
authors: Charles Santori, David Fattal, Jelena Vuckovic, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 205324 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308323
abstract: Photon correlation measurements reveal memory effects in the optical emission of single InAs quantum dots with timescales from 10 to 800 ns. With above-band optical excitation, a long-timescale negative correlation (antibunching) is observed, while with quasi-resonant excitation, a positive correlation (blinking) is observed. A simple model based on long-lived charged states is presented that approximately explains the observed behavior, providing insight into the excitation process. Such memory effects can limit the internal efficiency of light emitters based on single quantum dots, and could also be problematic for proposed quantum-computation schemes.

id: cond-mat/0308369
title: Interior gap superfluidity in a two-component Fermi gas of atoms
authors: Bimalendu Deb, Amruta Mishra, Hiranmaya Mishra, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A70:011604,2004
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308369
abstract: A new superfluid phase in Fermi matter, termed as "interior gap" (IG) or "breached pair", has been recently predicted by Liu and Wilczek [Phys.Rev.Lett. {\bf 90}, 047002 (2003)]. This results from pairing between fermions of two species having essentially different Fermi surfaces. Using a nonperturbative variational approach, we analyze the features, such as energy gap, momentum distributions, and elementary excitations associated with the predicted phase. We discuss possible realization of this phase in two-component Fermi gases in an optical trap.

id: cond-mat/0308377
title: Saturation of dephasing time in mesoscopic devices produced by a ferromagnetic state
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 10 pages, no figure. Changed title. Revised version accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Phys.Rev. B68 (2003) 193413
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308377
abstract: We consider an exchange model of itinerant electrons in a Heisenberg ferromagnet and we assume that the ferromagnet is in a fully polarized state. Using the Holstein-Primakoff transformation we are able to obtain a boson-fermion Hamiltonian that is well-known in the interaction between light and matter. This model describes the spontaneous emission in two-level atoms that is the proper decoherence mechanism when the number of modes of the radiation field is taken increasingly large, the vacuum acting as a reservoir. In the same way one can see that the interaction between the bosonic modes of spin waves and an itinerant electron produces decoherence by spin flipping with a rate proportional to the size of the system. In this way we are able to show that the experiments on quantum dots, described in D. K. Ferry et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 82}, 4687 (1999)], and nanowires, described in D. Natelson et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 86}, 1821 (2001)], can be understood as the interaction of itinerant electrons and an electron gas in a fully polarized state.

id: cond-mat/0308412
title: Towards a Theory of Molecular Forces between Deformed Media
authors: Rauno Buescher, Thorsten Emig
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nucl.Phys. B696 (2004) 468-491
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0308412
abstract: A macroscopic theory for the molecular or Casimir interaction of dielectric materials with arbitrarily shaped surfaces is developed. The interaction is generated by the quantum and thermal fluctuations of the electromagnetic field which depend on the dielectric function of the materials. Using a path integral approach for the electromagnetic gauge field, we derive an effective Gaussian action which can be used to compute the force between the objects. No assumptions about the independence of the shape and material dependent contributions to the interaction are made. In the limiting case of flat surfaces our approach yields a simple and compact derivation of the Lifshitz theory for molecular forces. For ideal metals with arbitrarily deformed surfaces the effective action can be calculated explicitly. For the general case of deformed dielectric materials the applicability of perturbation theory and numerical techniques to the evaluation of the force from the effective action is discussed.

id: cs/0308043
title: Note on Needle in a Haystack
authors: John Robert Burger
comments: Edited and clarified; upgraded statements about use of Grover's quantum algorithm
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0308043
abstract: Introduced below is a quantum database method, not only for retrieval but also for creation. It uses a particular structure of true's and false's in a state vector of n qubits, permitting up to 2**2**n words, vastly more than for classical bits. Several copies are produced so that later they can be destructively observed and a word determined with high probability. Grover's algorithm is proposed below to read out, nondestructively the unknown contents of a given stored state vector using only one state vector.

id: gr-qc/0308021
title: Lorentz invariant intrinsic decoherence
authors: G.J.Milburn
comments: This paper generalises an earlier model published as Phys. Rev. A vol44, 5401 (1991)
journal: New J.Phys.8:96,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0308021
abstract: Quantum decoherence can arise due to classical fluctuations in the parameters which define the dynamics of the system. In this case decoherence, and complementary noise, is manifest when data from repeated measurement trials are combined. Recently a number of authors have suggested that fluctuations in the space-time metric arising from quantum gravity effects would correspond to a source of intrinsic noise, which would necessarily be accompanied by intrinsic decoherence. This work extends a previous heuristic modification of Schr\"{o}dinger dynamics based on discrete time intervals with an intrinsic uncertainty. The extension uses unital semigroup representations of space and time translations rather than the more usual unitary representation, and does the least violence to physically important invariance principles. Physical consequences include a modification of the uncertainty principle and a modification of field dispersion relations, in a way consistent with other modifications suggested by quantum gravity and string theory .

id: gr-qc/0308028
title: Passage of Time in a Planck Scale Rooted Local Inertial Structure
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 17 pages; Diagram depicting "the objective flow of time" is replaced with a much-improved diagram
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D13 (2004) 1037-1072
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0308028
abstract: It is argued that the `problem of time' in quantum gravity necessitates a refinement of the local inertial structure of the world, demanding a replacement of the usual Minkowski line element by a 4+2n dimensional pseudo-Euclidean line element, with the extra 2n being the number of internal phase space dimensions of the observed system. In the refined structure, the inverse of the Planck time takes over the role of observer-independent conversion factor usually played by the speed of light, which now emerges as an invariant but derivative quantity. In the relativistic theory based on the refined structure, energies and momenta turn out to be invariantly bounded from above, and lengths and durations similarly bounded from below, by their respective Planck scale values. Along the external timelike world-lines, the theory naturally captures the `flow of time' as a genuinely structural attribute of the world. The theory also predicts expected deviations--suppressed quadratically by the Planck energy--from the dispersion relations for free fields in the vacuum. The deviations from the special relativistic Doppler shifts predicted by the theory are also suppressed quadratically by the Planck energy. Nonetheless, in order to estimate the precision required to distinguish the theory from special relativity, an experiment with a binary pulsar emitting TeV range gamma-rays is considered in the context of the predicted deviations from the second-order shifts.

id: gr-qc/0308029
title: Wave Function of the Universe and Its Meaning
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 9 pages, contributed to the First International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics, held in Prag June 2003
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 54 (2004) 93-99
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0308029
abstract: For a FRW-spacetime coupled to an arbitrary real scalar field, we endow the solution space of the associated Wheeler-DeWitt equation with a Hilbert-space structure, construct the observables, and introduce the physical wave functions of the universe that admit a genuine probabilistic interpretation. We also discuss a proposal for the formulation of the dynamics. The approach to quantum cosmology outlined in this article is based on the results obtained within the theory of pseudo-Hermitian operators.

id: gr-qc/0308030
title: Quantum particle on hyperboloid
authors: Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 7 pages, no figures, revtex4
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 21 (2004) 331-336
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0308030
abstract: We present quantization of particle dynamics on one-sheet hyperboloid embedded in three dimensional Minkowski space. Taking account of all global symmetries enables unique quantization. Making use of topology of canonical variables not only simplifies calculations but also gives proper framework for analysis.

id: gr-qc/0308039
title: Novel approach to the study of quantum effects in the early universe
authors: A. Geralico, G. Landolfi, G. Ruggeri, G. Soliani
comments: 20 pages, to appear on PRD. Already published background material has been either settled up in a more compact form or eliminated
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 043504
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0308039
abstract: We develop a theoretical frame for the study of classical and quantum gravitational waves based on the properties of a nonlinear ordinary differential equation for a function $\sigma(\eta)$ of the conformal time $\eta$, called the auxiliary field equation. At the classical level, $\sigma(\eta)$ can be expressed by means of two independent solutions of the ''master equation'' to which the perturbed Einstein equations for the gravitational waves can be reduced. At the quantum level, all the significant physical quantities can be formulated using Bogolubov transformations and the operator quadratic Hamiltonian corresponding to the classical version of a damped parametrically excited oscillator where the varying mass is replaced by the square cosmological scale factor $a^{2}(\eta)$. A quantum approach to the generation of gravitational waves is proposed on the grounds of the previous $\eta-$dependent Hamiltonian. An estimate in terms of $\sigma(\eta)$ and $a(\eta)$ of the destruction of quantum coherence due to the gravitational evolution and an exact expression for the phase of a gravitational wave corresponding to any value of $\eta$ are also obtained. We conclude by discussing a few applications to quasi-de Sitter and standard de Sitter scenarios.

id: hep-ph/0308192
title: Entropy for Colored Quark States at Finite Temperature
authors: David E. Miller, Abdel-Nasser Tawfik
comments: 19 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: FizikaB16:17-38,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0308192
abstract: The quantum entropy at finite temperatures is analyzed by using models for colored quarks making up the physical states of the hadrons. We explicitly work out some special models for the structure of the states of SU(2) and SU(3) relating to the effects of the temperature on the quantum entropy. We show that the entropy of the singlet states monotonically decreases meaning that the mixing of these states continually diminishes with the temperature. It has been found that the structure of the octet states is more complex so that it can be best characterized by two parts. One part is very similar to that of the singlet states. The other one reflects the existence of strong correlations between two of the three color states. Furthermore, we work out the entropy for the {\it classical} Ising and the {\it quantum} XY spin chains. In Ising model the quantum (ground state) entropy does not directly enter into the canonical partition function. It also does not depend on the number of spatial dimensions, but only on the number of quantum states making up the ground state. Whereas, the XY spin chain has a finite entropy at vanishing temperature. The results from the spin models qualitatively analogous to our models for the states of SU(2) and SU(3).

id: hep-th/0308033
title: PT-Symmetric Quantum Field Theory
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 4 pages, uses czjphys.cls, to appear in the Proceedings of the 12th International Colloquium on Quantum Groups and Integrable Systems
journal: Czech.J.Phys.53:1069-1072,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308033
abstract: In the context of the PT-symmetric version of quantum electrodynamics, it is argued that the C operator introduced in order to define a unitary inner product has nothing to do with charge conjugation.

id: hep-th/0308035
title: Anomalies in PT-Symmetric Quantum Field Theory
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 7 pages, uses czjphys.cls, to appear in proceedings of Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 54 (2004) 85-91
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308035
abstract: It is shown that a version of PT-symmetric electrodynamics based on an axial-vector current coupling massless fermions to the photon possesses anomalies and so is rendered nonrenormalizable. An alternative theory is proposed based on the conventional vector current constructed from massive Dirac fields, but in which the PT transformation properties of electromagnetic fields are reversed. Such a theory seems to possess many attractive features.

id: hep-th/0308052
title: Quantum & Classical Eigenfunctions in Calogero & Sutherland Systems
authors: I. Loris, R. Sasaki
comments: LaTeX2e 37 pages, references added, typo corrected, a few paragraphs added
journal: J.Phys.A37:211-238,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308052
abstract: An interesting observation was reported by Corrigan-Sasaki that all the frequencies of small oscillations around equilibrium are " quantised" for Calogero and Sutherland (C-S) systems, typical integrable multi-particle dynamics. We present an analytic proof by applying recent results of Loris-Sasaki. Explicit forms of `classical' and quantum eigenfunctions are presented for C-S systems based on any root systems.

id: hep-th/0308093
title: Dirac fermions in a magnetic-solenoid field
authors: S.P. Gavrilov, D.M. Gitman, A.A. Smirnov, B.L. Voronov
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures, LaTex file; misprints corrected
journal: published in "Focus on Mathematical Physics Research" (Nova Science Publishers, New York, 2004), pp. 131-168
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308093
abstract: We consider the Dirac equation with a magnetic-solenoid field (the superposition of the Aharonov--Bohm solenoid field and a collinear uniform magnetic field). Using von Neumann's theory of the self-adjoint extensions of symmetric operators, we construct a one-parameter family and a two-parameter family of self-adjoint Dirac Hamiltonians in the respective 2+1 and 3+1 dimensions. Each Hamiltonian is specified by certain asymptotic boundary conditions at the solenoid. We find the spectrum and eigenfunctions for all values of the extension parameters. We also consider the case of a regularized magnetic-solenoid field (with a finite-radius solenoid field component) and study the dependence of the eigenfunctions on the behavior of the magnetic field inside the solenoid. The zero-radius limit yields a concrete self-adjoint Hamiltonian for the case of the magnetic-solenoid field. In addition, we consider the spinless particle in the regularized magnetic-solenoid field. By the example of the radial Dirac Hamiltonian with the magnetic-solenoid field, we present an alternative, more simple and efficient, method for constructing self-adjoint extensions applicable to a wide class of singular differential operators.

id: hep-th/0308108
title: On the energy-momentum tensor for a scalar field on manifolds with boundaries
authors: Aram A. Saharian
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, section and appendix on the surface energy for a spherical shell are added, references added, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 085005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308108
abstract: We argue that already at classical level the energy-momentum tensor for a scalar field on manifolds with boundaries in addition to the bulk part contains a contribution located on the boundary. Using the standard variational procedure for the action with the boundary term, the expression for the surface energy-momentum tensor is derived for arbitrary bulk and boundary geometries. Integral conservation laws are investigated. The corresponding conserved charges are constructed and their relation to the proper densities is discussed. Further we study the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor in the corresponding quantum field theory. It is shown that the surface term in the energy-momentum tensor is essential to obtain the equality between the vacuum energy, evaluated as the sum of the zero-point energies for each normal mode of frequency, and the energy derived by the integration of the corresponding vacuum energy density. As an application, by using the zeta function technique, we evaluate the surface energy for a quantum scalar field confined inside a spherical shell.

id: hep-th/0308157
title: Dynamical Casimir effect with Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions
authors: D. T. Alves, C. Farina, P. A. Maia Neto
comments: 12 pages
journal: J.Phys.A36:11333-11342,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0308157
abstract: We derive the radiation pressure force on a non-relativistic moving plate in 1+1 dimensions. We assume that a massless scalar field satisfies either Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions (BC) at the instantaneous position of the plate. We show that when the state of the field is invariant under time translations, the results derived for Dirichlet and Neumann BC are equal. We discuss the force for a thermal field state as an example for this case. On the other hand, a coherent state introduces a phase reference, and the two types of BC lead to different results.

id: math-ph/0308026
title: Polynomial Algebras and their Applications
authors: Bindu A. Bambah
comments: Invited talk at "The International conference on Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics, Valladolid Spain (July 15-20, 2003),. Work done with Dr. V. SuniKumar IOP, Bhubaneshwar and Prof. R. Jagannathan, IMSC, Chennai. 12 pages LATEX with JHEP3.cls Macro included
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0308026
abstract: A way to construct and classify the three dimensional polynomially deformed algebras is given and the irreducible representations is presented. for the quadratic algebras 4 different algebras are obtained and for cubic algebras 12 different classes are constructed. Applications to quantum mechanical systems including supersymmetric quantum mechanics are discussed

id: math-ph/0308040
title: One-dimensional models for atoms in strong magnetic fields, II: Anti-Symmetry in the Landau Levels
authors: Raymond Brummelhuis, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Submitted to special issue of J. Stat. Phys. in honor of E. Lieb's 70th birthday. (latex, 25 pages)
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 116, 547-570 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0308040
abstract: Electrons in strong magnetic fields can be described by one-dimensional models in which the Coulomb potential and interactions are replaced by regularizations associated with the lowest Landau band. For a large class of models of these type, we show that the maximum number of electrons that can be bound is less than a Z + Z f(Z). The function f(Z) represents a small non-linear growth which is quadratic in log Z when the magnetic field strength grows polynomially with the nuclear charge Z. In contrast to earlier work, the models considered here include those arising from realistic cases in which the full trial wave function for N-electrons is the product of an N-electron trial function in one-dimension and an antisymmetric product of states in the lowest Landau level.

id: math/0308077
title: On the Chernoff bound for efficiency of quantum hypothesis testing
authors: Vladislav Kargin
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Annals of Statistics, 2005, 33, 959-976
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0308077
abstract: The paper estimates the Chernoff rate for the efficiency of quantum hypothesis testing. For both joint and separable measurements, approximate bounds for the rate are given if both states are mixed and exact expressions are derived if at least one of the states is pure. The efficiency of tests with separable measurements is found to be close to the efficiency of tests with joint measurements. The results are illustrated by a test of quantum entanglement.

id: physics/0308016
title: Modes of wave-chaotic dielectric resonators
authors: Hakan E. Tureci, Harald G. L. Schwefel, Philippe Jacquod, A. Douglas Stone
comments: 33 pages, 16 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Progress in Optics, Vol 47: 75-137 (2005)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0308016
abstract: Dielectric optical micro-resonators and micro-lasers represent a realization of a wave-chaotic system, where the lack of symmetry in the resonator shape leads to non-integrable ray dynamics. Modes of such resonators display a rich spatial structure, and cannot be classified through mode indices which would require additional constants of motion in the ray dynamics. Understanding and controlling the emission properties of such resonators requires the investigation of the correspondence between classical phase space structures of the ray motion inside the resonator and resonant solutions of the wave equations. We first discuss the breakdown of the conventional eikonal approximation in the short wavelength limit, and motivate the use of phase-space ray tracing and phase space distributions. Next, we introduce an efficient numerical method to calculate the quasi-bound modes of dielectric resonators, which requires only two diagonalizations per N states, where N is approximately equal to the number of half-wavelengths along the perimeter. The relationship between classical phase space structures and modes is displayed via the Husimi projection technique. Observables related to the emission pattern of the resonator are calculated with high efficiency.

id: physics/0308049
title: An application of interpolating scaling functions to wave packet propagation
authors: Andrei G. Borisov, Sergei V. Shabanov
comments: plain Latex, 11 pages, 4 figures attached in the JPEG format
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0308049
abstract: Wave packet propagation in the basis of interpolating scaling functions (ISF) is studied. The ISF are well known in the multiresolution analysis based on spline biorthogonal wavelets. The ISF form a cardinal basis set corresponding to an equidistantly spaced grid. They have compact support of the size determined by the underlying interpolating polynomial that is used to generate ISF. In this basis the potential energy matrix is diagonal and the kinetic energy matrix is sparse and, in the 1D case, has a band-diagonal structure. An important feature of the basis is that matrix elements of a Hamiltonian are exactly computed by means of simple algebraic transformations efficiently implemented numerically. Therefore the number of grid points and the order of the underlying interpolating polynomial can easily be varied allowing one to approach the accuracy of pseudospectral methods in a regular manner, similar to high order finite difference methods. The results of numerical simulations of an H+H_2 collinear collision show that the ISF provide one with an accurate and efficient representation for use in the wave packet propagation method.

id: math-ph/0308033
title: Quantum Dynamical Entropies in Discrete Classical Chaos
authors: F. Benatti, V. Cappellini, F. Zertuche
comments: LaTeX, 37 pages, 12 figures; v2: Corrected typos
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., Vol. 37 Num. 1 (9 January 2004) 105-130
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0308033
abstract: We discuss certain analogies between quantization and discretization of classical systems on manifolds. In particular, we will apply the quantum dynamical entropy of Alicki and Fannes to numerically study the footprints of chaos in discretized versions of hyperbolic maps on the torus.

