id: quant-ph/0309001
title: Capacity of nonlinear bosonic systems
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309001
abstract: We analyze the role of nonlinear Hamiltonians in bosonic channels. We show that the information capacity as a function of the channel energy is increased with respect to the corresponding linear case, although only when the energy used for driving the nonlinearity is not considered as part of the energetic cost and when dispersive effects are negligible.

id: quant-ph/0309002
title: An Explicit Universal Gate-set for Exchange-Only Quantum Computation
authors: M. Hsieh, J. Kempe, S. Myrgren, K. B. Whaley
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, new appendix and figures, revised version as accepted for publication
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 2 (4), p. 289-307, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309002
abstract: A single physical interaction might not be universal for quantum computation in general. It has been shown, however, that in some cases it can generate universal quantum computation over a subspace. For example, by encoding logical qubits into arrays of multiple physical qubits, a single isotropic or anisotropic exchange interaction can generate a universal logical gate-set. Recently, encoded universality for the exchange interaction was explicitly demonstrated on three-qubit arrays, the smallest nontrivial encoding. We now present the exact specification of a discrete universal logical gate-set on four-qubit arrays. We show how to implement the single qubit operations exactly with at most 3 nearest neighbor exchange operations and how to generate the encoded controlled-not with 29 parallel nearest neighbor exchange interactions or 54 serial gates, obtained from extensive numerical optimization using genetic algorithms and Nelder-Mead searches. Our gate-sequences are immediately applicable to implementations of quantum circuits with the exchange interaction.

id: quant-ph/0309003
title: Squeezed States of the Generalized Minimum Uncertainty State for the Caldirola-Kanai Hamiltonian
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex4, 9 pages, no fingure; to be published in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 12089-12095
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309003
abstract: We show that the ground state of the well-known pseudo-stationary states for the Caldirola-Kanai Hamiltonian is a generalized minimum uncertainty state, which has the minimum allowed uncertainty $\Delta q \Delta p = \hbar \sigma_0/2$, where $\sigma_0 (\geq 1)$ is a constant depending on the damping factor and natural frequency. The most general symmetric Gaussian states are obtained as the one-parameter squeezed states of the pseudo-stationary ground state. It is further shown that the coherent states of the pseudo-stationary ground state constitute another class of the generalized minimum uncertainty states.

id: quant-ph/0309004
title: Quantum Entanglement in Heisenberg Antiferromagnets
authors: V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A69, 022311 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309004
abstract: Entanglement sharing among pairs of spins in Heisenberg antiferromagnets is investigated using the concurrence measure. For a nondegenerate S=0 ground state, a simple formula relates the concurrence to the diagonal correlation function. The concurrence length is seen to be extremely short. A few finite clusters are studied numerically, to see the trend in higher dimensions. It is argued that nearest-neighbour concurrence is zero for triangular and Kagome lattices. The concurrences in the maximal-spin states are explicitly calculated, where the concurrence averaged over all pairs is larger than the S=0 states.

id: quant-ph/0309005
title: The Quantum Self-eraser
authors: Jesus Martinez-Linares, Julio Vargas-Medina
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309005
abstract: A scheme for an atomic beam quantum self-eraser is presented. The proposal is based on time reversal invariance on a quantum optical Ramsey fringes experiment, where a realization of complementarity for atomic coherence can be achieved. It consists of two high finesse resonators that are pumped and probed by the same atom. This property relates quantum erasing with time reversal symmetry, allowing for a full quantum erasing of the which-way information stored in the cavity fields. The outlined scheme also prepares and observes a non-local state in the fields of the resonators: a coherent superposition between correlated states of macroscopically separated quantum systems. The proposed scheme emphasizes the role of entanglement swapping in delayed-choice experiments. Finally, we show that the quantum self-eraser violates temporal Bell inequalities and analyze the relation between this violation and the erasability of which-way information.

id: quant-ph/0309006
title: Duality in asymmetric Quantum optical Ramsey interferometers
authors: Jesus Martinez-Linares, Julio Vargas-Medina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309006
abstract: A formalism have been recently derived [J. Martinez-Linares and D. Harmin, quantum-ph/0306057] allowing one to separate different sources of which-way information contributing to the total distinguishability D of the ways in a two-way interferometer. Here we apply the formalism to a Quantum Optical Ramsey Interferometer where both sources, the a-priori predictability of the ways P and the quantum "Quality" Q of the which-way detector, stems from the same physical interaction. We show that the formalism is able to separate both sources of which-way information. Moreover, it is shown that Q succeeds in quantifying the amount of quantum which-way information stored in the which-way detector even in cases where D does not.

id: quant-ph/0309007
title: An Experimental Realization of Quantum-vacuum Geometric Phases by Using the Gyrotropic-medium Optical Fiber
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: The European Physical Journal D, vol. 30: 259-264 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309007
abstract: The connection between the quantum-vacuum geometric phases (which originates from the vacuum zero-point electromagnetic fluctuation) and the non-normal product procedure is considered in the present Letter. In order to investigate this physically interesting geometric phases at quantum-vacuum level, we suggest an experimentally feasible scheme to test it by means of a noncoplanarly curved fiber made of gyrotropic media. A remarkable feature of the present experimental realization is that one can easily extract the nonvanishing and nontrivial quantum-vacuum geometric phases of left- and/or right- handed circularly polarized light from the vanishing and trivial total quantum-vacuum geometric phases.

id: quant-ph/0309008
title: A Supplement: on the Quantum-vacuum Geometric Phases
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 5 pages, Latex; The present paper is a supplement to the paper: arXiv: quant-ph/0309007 (entitled: An experimental realization of quantum-vacuum geometric phases by using the gyrotropic-medium optical fiber). It is a supplement to the paper: Quantum-vacuum geometric phases in the noncoplanarly curved fiber system, J.Q. Shen, The European Physical Journal D, vol. 30: 259-264 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309008
abstract: Three related topics on the quantum-vacuum geometric phases in a noncoplanarly curved optical fiber is presented: (i) a brief review: the investigation of vacuum effect and its experimental realization; (ii) the sequence of ideas of geometric phases in the fiber; (iii) three derivations of effective Hamiltonian that describes the wave propagation of photon field in a curved fiber.

id: quant-ph/0309009
title: Atom-photon entanglement generation and distribution
authors: B. Sun, M. S. Chapman, L. You
comments: 7 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309009
abstract: We extend an earlier model by Law {\it et al.} \cite{law} for a cavity QED based single-photon-gun to atom-photon entanglement generation and distribution. We illuminate the importance of a small critical atom number on the fidelity of the proposed operation in the strong coupling limit. Our result points to a promisingly high purity and efficiency using currently available cavity QED parameters, and sheds new light on constructing quantum computing and communication devices with trapped atoms and high Q optical cavities.

id: quant-ph/0309010
title: Experimental Scheme to Test the Fair Sampling Assumption in EPR-Bell Experiments
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: Revtex4, 2 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309010
abstract: We propose here an experimental test of the fair sampling assumption in two-channel EPR-Bell experiments for which the detection loophole holds.

id: quant-ph/0309011
title: Optimal control theory for unitary transformations
authors: Jose P. Palao, R. Kosloff
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309011
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum system driven by an external field is well described by a unitary transformation generated by a time dependent Hamiltonian. The inverse problem of finding the field that generates a specific unitary transformation is the subject of study. The unitary transformation which can represent an algorithm in a quantum computation is imposed on a subset of quantum states embedded in a larger Hilbert space. Optimal control theory (OCT) is used to solve the inversion problem irrespective of the initial input state. A unified formalism, based on the Krotov method is developed leading to a new scheme. The schemes are compared for the inversion of a two-qubit Fourier transform using as registers the vibrational levels of the $X^1\Sigma^+_g$ electronic state of Na$_2$. Raman-like transitions through the $A^1\Sigma^+_u$ electronic state induce the transitions. Light fields are found that are able to implement the Fourier transform within a picosecond time scale. Such fields can be obtained by pulse-shaping techniques of a femtosecond pulse. Out of the schemes studied the square modulus scheme converges fastest. A study of the implementation of the $Q$ qubit Fourier transform in the Na$_2$ molecule was carried out for up to 5 qubits. The classical computation effort required to obtain the algorithm with a given fidelity is estimated to scale exponentially with the number of levels. The observed moderate scaling of the pulse intensity with the number of qubits in the transformation is rationalized.

id: quant-ph/0309012
title: Interference as a statistical consequence of conjecture on time quant
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Yaroslav Volovich
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309012
abstract: We analyze statistical consequences of a conjecture that there exists a fundamental (indivisible) quant of time. We study particle dynamics with discrete time. We show that a quantum-like interference pattern could appear as a statistical effect for deterministic particles, i.e. particles that have trajectories and obey deterministic dynamical equations, if one introduces a discrete time. As a demonstration of this concept we consider particle scattering on a screen with a slit. We study how resulting interference picture depends on the parameters of the model. The resulting interference picture has a nontrivial minimum-maximum distribution which vanishes, as the time discreteness parameter goes to zero. This picture is qualitatively the same as one obtained in quantum experiments. The picture includes some interesting nonclassical properties such as a 'black' region behind the center of the slit.

id: quant-ph/0309013
title: A characterization of continuous variable entanglement
authors: W. P. Bowen, R. Schnabel, P. K. Lam, T. C. Ralph
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures, published with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309013
abstract: We present an experimental analysis of quadrature entanglement produced from a pair of amplitude squeezed beams. The correlation matrix of the state is characterized within a set of reasonable assumptions, and the strength of the entanglement is gauged using measures of the degree of inseparability and the degree of EPR paradox. We introduce controlled decoherence in the form of optical loss to the entangled state, and demonstrate qualitative differences in the response of the degrees of inseparability and EPR paradox to this loss. The entanglement is represented on a photon number diagram that provides an intuitive and physically relevant description of the state. We calculate efficacy contours for several quantum information protocols on this diagram, and use them to predict the effectiveness of our entanglement in those protocols.

id: quant-ph/0309014
title: Hydrogen atom in strong magnetic field revisited
authors: I.B. Khriplovich, G.Yu. Ruban
comments: 4 pages; misprint in formula (5) corrected, results unchanged
journal: Laser Physics 14 (2004) 426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309014
abstract: We derive in a straightforward way the spectrum of a hydrogen atom in a strong magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0309015
title: Entanglement Measure for Composite Systems
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: 6 pages, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 167905-4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309015
abstract: A general description of entanglement is suggested as an action realized by an arbitrary operator over given disentangled states. The related entanglement measure is defined. Because of its generality, this definition can be employed for any physical systems, pure or mixed, equilibrium or nonequilibrium, and characterized by any type of operators, whether these are statistical operators, field operators, spin operators, or anything else. Entanglement of any number of parts from their total ensemble forming a multiparticle composite system can be determined. Interplay between entanglement and ordering, occurring under phase transitions, is analysed by invoking the concept of operator order indices.

id: quant-ph/0309016
title: The wave nature of biomolecules and fluorofullerenes
authors: Lucia Hackermueller, Stefan Uttenthaler, Klaus Hornberger, Elisabeth Reiger, Bjoern Brezger, Anton Zeilinger, Markus Arndt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 090408 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309016
abstract: We demonstrate quantum interference for tetraphenylporphyrin, the first biomolecule exhibiting wave nature, and for the fluorofullerene C60F48 using a near-field Talbot-Lau interferometer. For the porphyrins, which are distinguished by their low symmetry and their abundant occurence in organic systems, we find the theoretically expected maximal interference contrast and its expected dependence on the de Broglie wavelength. For C60F48 the observed fringe visibility is below the expected value, but the high contrast still provides good evidence for the quantum character of the observed fringe pattern. The fluorofullerenes therefore set the new mark in complexity and mass (1632 amu) for de Broglie wave experiments, exceeding the previous mass record by a factor of two.

id: quant-ph/0309017
title: Noncontextuality, Finite Precision Measurement and the Kochen-Specker Theorem
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Adrian Kent
comments: 27 pages; published version; minor changes from previous version
journal: Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 35 (2004) pp. 151-176.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309017
abstract: Meyer recently queried whether non-contextual hidden variable models can, despite the Kochen-Specker theorem, simulate the predictions of quantum mechanics to within any fixed finite experimental precision. Clifton and Kent have presented constructions of non-contextual hidden variable theories which, they argued, indeed simulate quantum mechanics in this way. These arguments have evoked some controversy. One aim of this paper is to respond to and rebut criticisms of the MCK papers. We thus elaborate in a little more detail how the CK models can reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics to arbitrary precision. We analyse in more detail the relationship between classicality, finite precision measurement and contextuality, and defend the claims that the CK models are both essentially classical and non-contextual. We also examine in more detail the senses in which a theory can be said to be contextual or non-contextual, and in which an experiment can be said to provide evidence on the point. In particular, we criticise the suggestion that a decisive experimental verification of contextuality is possible, arguing that the idea rests on a conceptual confusion.

id: quant-ph/0309018
title: Treatment of sound on quantum computers
authors: Jae Weon Lee, Alexei Chepelianskii, Dima Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, research at Quantware MIPS Center this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Sound (cs.SD); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309018
abstract: We study numerically how a sound signal stored in a quantum computer can be recognized and restored with a minimal number of measurements in presence of random quantum gate errors. A method developed uses elements of MP3 sound compression and allows to recover human speech and sound of complex quantum wavefunctions.

id: quant-ph/0309019
title: Entanglement preservation in quantum cloning
authors: Pawe? Masiak
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, vol. 50, no. 12, 1873-1881 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309019
abstract: Recently Galv\~{a}o and Hardy have shown that quantum cloning can improve the performance of some quantum computation tasks. However such performance enhancement is possible only if quantum correlations survive the cloning process. We investigate preservation of the quantum correlations in the process of non--local cloning of entangled pairs of two--level systems. We consider different kinds of quantum cloning machines and compare their effectiveness in the cloning of non--maximally entangled pure states. A mean entanglement is introduced in order to obtain a quantitative evaluation of an average efficiency for the different cloning machines. We show that a reduction of the quantum correlations is significant and it strongly depends upon the kind of cloning machine used. Losses of the entanglement are largest in the case of the universal quantum cloning machine. Generally, in all cases considered the losses of the entanglement are so drastic that the method of enhancement for the performance of the quantum computation using the quantum cloning seems to be questionable.

id: quant-ph/0309020
title: John Bell Across Space and Time
authors: Nino Zanghi, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 4 pages LaTeX
journal: American Scientist 91(5), 461-462 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309020
abstract: This is a review of the book Quantum [Un]speakables: From Bell to Quantum Information. Reinhold A. Bertlmann and Anton Zeilinger (editors).

id: quant-ph/0309021
title: On the Distribution of the Wave Function for Systems in Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 31 pages LaTeX, 1 figure; v3 minor improvements; v2 completely revised with major extensions
journal: J. Statist. Phys. 125 (2006) 1193-1221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309021
abstract: For a quantum system, a density matrix rho that is not pure can arise, via averaging, from a distribution mu of its wave function, a normalized vector belonging to its Hilbert space H. While rho itself does not determine a unique mu, additional facts, such as that the system has come to thermal equilibrium, might. It is thus not unreasonable to ask, which mu, if any, corresponds to a given thermodynamic ensemble? To answer this question we construct, for any given density matrix rho, a natural measure on the unit sphere in H, denoted GAP(rho). We do this using a suitable projection of the Gaussian measure on H with covariance rho. We establish some nice properties of GAP(rho) and show that this measure arises naturally when considering macroscopic systems. In particular, we argue that it is the most appropriate choice for systems in thermal equilibrium, described by the canonical ensemble density matrix rho_beta = (1/Z) exp(- beta H). GAP(rho) may also be relevant to quantum chaos and to the stochastic evolution of open quantum systems, where distributions on H are often used.

id: quant-ph/0309022
title: Quantum Aspects of Semantic Analysis and Symbolic Artificial Intelligence
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: version accepted in J. Phys. A (Letter to the Editor)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) L123-L132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computation and Language (cs.CL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309022
abstract: Modern approaches to semanic analysis if reformulated as Hilbert-space problems reveal formal structures known from quantum mechanics. Similar situation is found in distributed representations of cognitive structures developed for the purposes of neural networks. We take a closer look at similarites and differences between the above two fields and quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0309023
title: Uncertainty, trajectories, and duality
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: Latex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309023
abstract: We show explicitly how uncertainty can arise in a trajectory representation. Then we show that the formal utilization of the WKB like hierarchy structure of dKdV in the description of (X,psi) duality does not encounter norm constraints.

id: quant-ph/0309024
title: Decoherence Rate of Semiconductor Charge Qubit Coupled to Acoustic Phonon Reservoir
authors: L. Fedichkin, A. Fedorov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, typos corrected, fig. 2 replaced by the improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032311 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309024
abstract: We analyze decoherence of an electron in a double-dot due to the interaction with acoustic phonons. For large tunneling rates between the quantum dots, the main contribution to decoherence comes from the phonon emission relaxation processes, while for small tunneling rates, the virtual-phonon, dephasing processes dominate. Our results show that in common semiconductors, such as Si and GaAs, the latter mechanism determines the upper limit for the double-dot charge qubit performance measure.

id: quant-ph/0309025
title: Nonclassical Properties of Coherent States
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 4 pages. Some arguments rewritten, reference added to quant-ph/0402050. Conclusion unchanged
journal: Phys. Lett. A 329 (2004) 184-187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309025
abstract: It is demonstrated that a weak measurement of the squared quadrature observable may yield negative values for coherent states. This result cannot be reproduced by a classical theory where quadratures are stochastic $c$-numbers. The real part of the weak value is a conditional moment of the Margenau-Hill distribution. The nonclassicality of coherent states can be associated with negative values of the Margenau-Hill distribution. A more general type of weak measurement is considered, where the pointer can be in an arbitrary state, pure or mixed.

id: quant-ph/0309026
title: Adiabatic Time Evolution in Spin-Systems
authors: V. Murg, J. I. Cirac
comments: 11 pages, 9 EPS figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042320 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309026
abstract: Adiabatic processes in the quantum Ising model and the anisotropic Heisenberg model are discussed. The adiabatic processes are assumed to consist in the slow variation of the strength of the magnetic field that environs the spin-systems. These processes are of current interest in the treatment of cold atoms in optical lattices and in Adiabatic Quantum Computation. We determine the probability that, during an adiabatic passage starting from the ground state, states with higher energy are excited.

id: quant-ph/0309027
title: Entanglement and the Phase Transition in Single Mode Superradiance
authors: Neill Lambert, Clive Emary, Tobias Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 2 figues
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.92:073602,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309027
abstract: We consider the entanglement properties of the quantum phase transition in the single-mode superradiance model, involving the interaction of a boson mode and an ensemble of atoms. For infinite system size, the atom-field entanglement of formation diverges logarithmically with the correlation length exponent. Using a continuous variable representation, we compare this to the divergence of the entropy in conformal field theories, and derive an exact expression for the scaled concurrence and the cusp-like non-analyticity of the momentum squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0309028
title: Quantum statistics of overlapping modes in open resonators
authors: Gregor Hackenbroich, Carlos Viviescas, Fritz Haake
comments: 6 pages, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063805 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309028
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of optical fields in weakly confining resonators with overlapping modes. Employing a recently developed quantization scheme involving a discrete set of resonator modes and continua of external modes we derive Langevin equations and a master equation for the resonator modes. Langevin dynamics and the master equation are proved to be equivalent in the Markovian limit. Our open-resonator dynamics may be used as a starting point for a quantum theory of random lasers.

id: quant-ph/0309029
title: Rule (4) and Continuous Observation
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 8 pages, 5 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309029
abstract: The effect of rule (4) on a series or parallel sequence of quantum mechanical steps is to insure that a conscious observer does not skip a step. This rule effectively places the observer in continuous contact with the system. Key Words: brain states, continuous observation, conscious observer, measurement, probability current, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: quant-ph/0309030
title: Action scales for quantum decoherence and their relation to structures in phase space
authors: Daniel Alonso, S. Brouard, Jose P. Palao, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309030
abstract: A characteristic action $\Delta S$ is defined whose magnitude determines some properties of the expectation value of a general quantum displacement operator. These properties are related to the capability of a given environmental `monitoring' system to induce decoherence in quantum systems coupled to it. We show that the scale for effective decoherence is given by $\Delta S\approx\hbar$. We relate this characteristic action with a complementary quantity, $\Delta Z$, and analyse their connection with the main features of the pattern of structures developed by the environmental state in different phase space representations. The relevance of the $\Delta S$-action scale is illustrated using both a model quantum system solved numerically and a set of model quantum systems for which analytical expressions for the time-averaged expectation value of the displacement operator are obtained explicitly.

id: quant-ph/0309031
title: Proof of Partial Equivalence of Classical and Quantum Dynamics in Bosonic Systems
authors: Paul J. Werbos
comments: 19 pages. The pdf text contains the title and long abstract as published in IJBC, 10/2002. The IJBC original was next to a paper by Chua&Roska arguing that Cellular Neural Networks attain the limits of PDE computing. The revision on 9/4/3 fixes small typos in equations 73&92 of the original
journal: P.Werbos, Classical ODE and PDE Which Obey Quantum Dynamics, International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos, Vol. 12, No. 10 (2002) 2031-2049
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309031
abstract: Quantum Field Theory (QFT) makes predictions by combining assumptions about (1) quantum dynamics, typically a Schrodinger or Liouville equation; (2) quantum measurement, usually via a collapse formalism. Here I define a "classical density matrix" rho to describe ensembles of states of ordinary second-order classical systems (ODE or PDE). I prove that the dynamics of the field observables, phi and pi, defined as operators over rho, obey precisely the usual Louiville equation for the same field operators in QFT, following Weinberg's treatment. I discuss implications in detail - particularly the implication that the difference between quantum computing and quantum mechanics versus classical systems lies mainly on the measurement side, not the dynamic side. But what if measurement itself were to be derived from dynamics and boundary conditions? An heretical realistic approach to building finite field theory is proposed, linked to the backwards time interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0309032
title: Collinear optical weak measurements with photonic crystals
authors: D. R. Solli, C. F. McCormick, S. Popescu, R. Y. Chiao, J. M. Hickmann
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures, submitted May 7, 2003, and presented June 5, 2003 at CLEO/QELS 2003 conference, Baltimore, postdeadline paper QThPDB4
journal: OSA Trends in Optics and Photonics, vol. 90, Quantum Electronics and Laser Science Conference, OSA Technical Digest (Optical Society of America, Washington, DC, 2003), paper QThPDB4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309032
abstract: We present a theoretical and experimental study of a photonic crystal based optical system in terms of weak values that map polarization states onto longitudinal spatial position and show fast and slow light behavior.

id: quant-ph/0309033
title: Correlated Equilibria of Classical Strategic Games with Quantum Signals
authors: Pierfrancesco La Mura
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform., 03, 183 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309033
abstract: Correlated equilibria are sometimes more efficient than the Nash equilibria of a game without signals. We investigate whether the availability of quantum signals in the context of a classical strategic game may allow the players to achieve even better efficiency than in any correlated equilibrium with classical signals, and find the answer to be positive.

id: quant-ph/0309034
title: Closed-loop Quantum Parameter Estimation: Spins in a Magnetic Field
authors: JM Geremia, John K. Stockton, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309034
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of closed-loop quantum parameter estimation in which real-time feedback is used to achieve robustness to modeling uncertainty. By performing broadband estimation of a magnetic field acting on hyperfine spins in a cold atom ensemble, we show that accuracy is not compromised by fluctuations in total atom number even though the measured signal in our canonical configuration depends only on the product of the field and atom number. This methodology could be essential for efforts to utilize conditional squeezing in spin-resonance measurements.

id: quant-ph/0309035
title: Comment on "Entanglement Measure for Composite Systems"
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 1 page, comment on quant-ph/0309015
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309035
abstract: A recent paper claimed to give an entanglement measure for composite systems, including Bose condensation and superconductivity. It is not an entanglement measure. It does not distinguish entanglement and non-factorization merely due to (anti)symmetrization for identical particles. In fact, the nature of entanglement, beyond the effect of (anti)symmetrization, in important states of many identical particles such as Bose condensation and superconductivity, had already been studied earlier.

id: quant-ph/0309036
title: One-qubit fingerprinting schemes
authors: J. Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 9 pages; Fixed some typos; changed order of bibliographical references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309036
abstract: Fingerprinting is a technique in communication complexity in which two parties (Alice and Bob) with large data sets send short messages to a third party (a referee), who attempts to compute some function of the larger data sets. For the equality function, the referee attempts to determine whether Alice's data and Bob's data are the same. In this paper, we consider the extreme scenario of performing fingerprinting where Alice and Bob both send either one bit (classically) or one qubit (in the quantum regime) messages to the referee for the equality problem. Restrictive bounds are demonstrated for the error probability of one-bit fingerprinting schemes, and show that it is easy to construct one-qubit fingerprinting schemes which can outperform any one-bit fingerprinting scheme. The author hopes that this analysis will provide results useful for performing physical experiments, which may help to advance implementations for more general quantum communication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0309037
title: Evolutional Entanglement in Nonequilibrium Processes
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 17 (2003) 95-103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309037
abstract: Entanglement in nonequilibrium systems is considered. A general definition for entanglement measure is introduced, which can be applied for characterizing the level of entanglement produced by arbitrary operators. Applying this definition to reduced density matrices makes it possible to measure the entanglement in nonequilibrium as well as in equilibrium statistical systems. An example of a multimode Bose-Einstein condensate is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309038
title: Coherent states for exactly solvable potentials
authors: T. Shreecharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, J. Banerji
comments: 11 pages, 4 eps figures, uses graphicx package
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309038
abstract: A general algebraic procedure for constructing coherent states of a wide class of exactly solvable potentials e.g., Morse and P{\"o}schl-Teller, is given. The method, {\it a priori}, is potential independent and connects with earlier developed ones, including the oscillator based approaches for coherent states and their generalizations. This approach can be straightforwardly extended to construct more general coherent states for the quantum mechanical potential problems, like the nonlinear coherent states for the oscillators. The time evolution properties of some of these coherent states, show revival and fractional revival, as manifested in the autocorrelation functions, as well as, in the quantum carpet structures.

id: quant-ph/0309039
title: Intertwining technique for a system of difference Schroedinger equations and new exactly solvable multichannel potentials
authors: L.M. Nieto, B.F. Samsonov, A.A. Suzko
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 12293-12304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309039
abstract: The intertwining operator technique is applied to difference Schroedinger equations with operator-valued coefficients. It is shown that these equations appear naturally when a discrete basis is used for solving a multichannel Schroedinger equation. New families of exactly solvable multichannel Hamiltonians are found.

id: quant-ph/0309040
title: Solvable model of a strongly-driven micromaser
authors: P. Lougovski, F. Casagrande, A. Lulli, B.-G. Englert, E. Solano, H. Walther
comments: 9 pages, 16 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 023812 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309040
abstract: We study the dynamics of a micromaser where the pumping atoms are strongly driven by a resonant classical field during their transit through the cavity mode. We derive a master equation for this strongly-driven micromaser, involving the contributions of the unitary atom-field interactions and the dissipative effects of a thermal bath. We find analytical solutions for the temporal evolution and the steady-state of this system by means of phase-space techniques, providing an unusual solvable model of an open quantum system, including pumping and decoherence. We derive closed expressions for all relevant expectation values, describing the statistics of the cavity field and the detected atomic levels. The transient regime shows the build-up of mixtures of mesoscopic fields evolving towards a superpoissonian steady-state field that, nevertheless, yields atomic correlations that exhibit stronger nonclassical features than the conventional micromaser.

id: quant-ph/0309041
title: Decoherence-Free Quantum Information Processing with Four-Photon Entangled States
authors: Mohamed Bourennane, Manfred Eibl, Sascha Gaertner, Christian Kurtsiefer, Adan Cabello, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 4 eps figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 107901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309041
abstract: Decoherence-free states protect quantum information from collective noise, the predominant cause of decoherence in current implementations of quantum communication and computation. Here we demonstrate that spontaneous parametric down-conversion can be used to generate four-photon states which enable the encoding of one qubit in a decoherence-free subspace. The immunity against noise is verified by quantum state tomography of the encoded qubit. We show that particular states of the encoded qubit can be distinguished by local measurements on the four photons only.

id: quant-ph/0309042
title: Algebraic solution of master equations
authors: R. Rangel, L. Carvalho
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309042
abstract: We present a simple analytical method to solve master equations for finite temperatures and any initial conditions, which consists in the expansion of the density operator into normal modes. These modes and the expansion coefficients are obtained algebraically by using ladder superoperators. This algebraic technique is successful in cases in which the Liouville superoperator is quadratic in the creation and annihilation operators.

id: quant-ph/0309043
title: Witnessing multipartite entanglement
authors: Mohamed Bourennane, Manfred Eibl, Christian Kurtsiefer, Sascha Gaertner, Harald Weinfurter, Otfried Guehne, Philipp Hyllus, Dagmar Bruss, Maciej Lewenstein, Anna Sanpera
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 087902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309043
abstract: We present the experimental detection of genuine multipartite entanglement using entanglement witness operators. To this aim we introduce a canonical way of constructing and decomposing witness operators so that they can be directly implemented with present technology. We apply this method to three- and four-qubit entangled states of polarized photons, giving experimental evidence that the considered states contain true multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0309044
title: Orbital angular momentum of the down converted photons
authors: Xi-Feng Ren, Guo-Ping Guo, Bo Yu, Jian Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309044
abstract: We calculate the relative amplitude of orbital angular momentum (OAM) entangled photon pairs from the spontaneous parametric down conversion. The results show that the amplitude depends on both the two Laguerre indices l, p. We also discuss the influences of the mostly used holograms and mono-mode fibers for mode analyzation. We conclude that only a few dimensions can be explored from the infinite OAM modes of the down-converted photon pairs.

id: quant-ph/0309045
title: Precis: Quantum Feedback
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 1 page. This work was executed in 1994 in response to the challenge of emulating the (almost certainly apocryphal) achievement of a one-page PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309045
abstract: The following is the body of page ix of the PhD thesis Quantum Trajectories and Feedback by H.M. Wiseman (Physics Department, University of Queensland, 1994), which is downloadable as a postscript file at this http URL . It is (as it described itself) a very brief technical summary of the most important results therein.

id: quant-ph/0309046
title: Ferreting out the Fluffy Bunnies: Entanglement constrained by Generalized superselection rules
authors: Howard M. Wiseman, Stephen D. Bartlett, John A. Vaccaro
comments: 8 pages, proceedings paper for an invited talk at 16th International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309046
abstract: Entanglement is a resource central to quantum information (QI). In particular, entanglement shared between two distant parties allows them to do certain tasks that would otherwise be impossible. In this context, we study the effect on the available entanglement of physical restrictions on the local operations that can be performed by the two parties. We enforce these physical restrictions by generalized superselection rules (SSRs), which we define to be associated with a given group of physical transformations. Specifically the generalized SSR is that the local operations must be covariant with respect to that group. Then we operationally define the entanglement constrained by a SSR, and show that it may be far below that expected on the basis of a naive (or ``fluffy bunny'') calculation. We consider two examples. The first is a particle number SSR. Using this we show that for a two-mode BEC (with Alice owning mode $A$ and Bob mode $B$), the useful entanglement shared by Alice and Bob is identically zero. The second, a SSR associated with the symmetric group, is applicable to ensemble QI processing such as in liquid-NMR. We prove that even for an ensemble comprising many pairs of qubits, with each pair described by a pure Bell state, the entanglement per pair constrained by this SSR goes to zero for a large ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0309047
title: A redefinition of Concurrence and its generalisation to bosonic subsystems of N qubit systems
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, V. Ravishankar
comments: 4 pages, double column, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309047
abstract: We refine the notion of concurrence in this paper by a redefinition of the concept. The new definition is simpler, computationally straight forward, and allows the concurrence to be directly read off from the state. It has all the positive features of the definiton given by Wootters over and above which it can discriminate between different systems to which the Wootters prescription would assign the same value. Finally, the definiton leads to a natural extension of the notion to multiqubit concurrence, which we illustrate with examples from quantum error correction codes.

id: quant-ph/0309048
title: The Case Against Objective Measurement
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 5 pages, 1 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309048
abstract: We consider two straightforward rules that govern the stochastic choice in a single quantum mechanical event. They are shown to lead to absurd results if an objective state reduction is allowed to compete with an observer state reduction. Since the latter collapse is empirically verifiable, the existence of the former is thrown into question. Key Words: Born Interpretation, brain states, continuous observation, conscious observer, objective measurement, observer measurement, probability current, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: quant-ph/0309049
title: A position and a time for the photon
authors: J. Leon
comments: 24 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309049
abstract: This paper gives a constructive answer to the question whether photon states can contain or not, and to what extent, the readings of rulers and clocks. The paper first shows explicitly that, along with the momentum representation, there is room in the one photon Hilbert space for an alternative position representation. This is made possible by the existence of a self-adjoint, involutive, position operator conjugate to the momentum operator (due to M. Hawton). Position and momenta are shown to satisfy the Heisenberg-Weyl quantization rules in the helicity basis, which is analyzed anew from this point of view. The paper then turns to the photon's time of arrival. By picking an appropriate photon Hamiltonian - using Maxwell equations as the photon Schroedinger equation - a conjugate time of arrival operator is built. Its interpretation, including the probability densities for the instant of arrival (at arbitrary points of 3-D space) of photon states with different helicities coming from arbitrary places, is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309050
title: Symmetric Autocompensating Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Zachary D. Walton, Alexander V. Sergienko, Lev B. Levitin, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 4 pages, 2 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309050
abstract: We present quantum key distribution schemes which are autocompensating (require no alignment) and symmetric (Alice and Bob receive photons from a central source) for both polarization and time-bin qubits. The primary benefit of the symmetric configuration is that both Alice and Bob may have passive setups (neither Alice nor Bob is required to make active changes for each run of the protocol). We show that both the polarization and the time-bin schemes may be implemented with existing technology. The new schemes are related to previously described schemes by the concept of advanced waves.

id: quant-ph/0309051
title: Implementing a Quantum Algorithm with Exchange-Coupled Quantum Dots: a Feasibility study
authors: E. Simon Myrgren, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 24 pages, 19 figures, revised version with an expanded appendix. to be published in Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309051
abstract: We present Monte Carlo wavefunction simulations for quantum computations employing an exchange-coupled array of quantum dots. Employing a combination of experimentally and theoretically available parameters, we find that gate fidelities greater than 98 % may be obtained with current experimental and technological capabilities. Application to an encoded 3 qubit (nine physical qubits) Deutsch-Josza computation indicates that the algorithmic fidelity is more a question of the total time to implement the gates than of the physical complexity of those gates.

id: quant-ph/0309052
title: Cavity QED with optically transported atoms
authors: J. A. Sauer, K. M. Fortier, M. S. Chang, C. D. Hamley, M. S. Chapman
comments: 4 figures, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309052
abstract: Ultracold $^{87}$Rb atoms are delivered into a high-finesse optical micro-cavity using a translating optical lattice trap and detected via the cavity field. The atoms are loaded into an optical lattice from a magneto-optic trap (MOT) and transported 1.5 cm into the cavity. Our cavity satisfies the strong-coupling requirements for a single intracavity atom, thus permitting real-time observation of single atoms transported into the cavity. This transport scheme enables us to vary the number of intracavity atoms from 1 to $>$100 corresponding to a maximum atomic cooperativity parameter of 5400, the highest value ever achieved in an atom--cavity system. When many atoms are loaded into the cavity, optical bistability is directly measured in real-time cavity transmission.

id: quant-ph/0309053
title: Berry phase in a composite system
authors: X. X. Yi, L. C. Wang, T. Y. Zheng
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: PRL 92,150406(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309053
abstract: The Berry phase in a composite system with only one subsystem being driven has been studied in this Letter. We choose two spin-$\frac 1 2 $ systems with spin-spin couplings as the composite system, one of the subsystems is driven by a time-dependent magnetic field. We show how the Berry phases depend on the coupling between the two subsystems, and what is the relation between these Berry phases of the whole system and those of the subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0309054
title: Quantifying Entanglement Production of Quantum Operations
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: 20 pages, Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 022109-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309054
abstract: The problem of entanglement produced by an arbitrary operator is formulated and a related measure of entanglement production is introduced. This measure of entanglement production satisfies all properties natural for such a characteristic. A particular case is the entanglement produced by a density operator or a density matrix. The suggested measure is valid for operations over pure states as well as over mixed states, for equilibrium as well as nonequilibrium processes. Systems of arbitrary nature can be treated, described either by field operators, spin operators, or any other kind of operators, which is realized by constructing generalized density matrices. The interplay between entanglement production and phase transitions in statistical systems is analysed by the examples of Bose-Einstein condensation, superconducting transition, and magnetic transitions. The relation between the measure of entanglement production and order indices is analysed.

id: quant-ph/0309055
title: Optical telecom networks as weak measurements with post-selection
authors: Nicolas Brunner
comments: extended version of quant-ph/0306108, diploma thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309055
abstract: In this work we establish a link between two apparently unrelated subjects: polarization effects in optical fibers and devices, and the quantum theory of weak measurements. We show that the abstract concept of weak measurements followed by post-selection, introduced a decade ago by quantum theorists, naturally appears in the everyday physics of telecom networks.

id: quant-ph/0309056
title: Quantum Flows as Markovian Limit of Emission, Absorption and Scattering Interactions
authors: John Gough
comments: 30 pages, several in-built figures (Includes limit theorems for unitary and Heisenberg flow. Diagrams have been added to elucidate the Dyson series expansions and estimation procedures. There is a new section on resumming the Dyson series. The proof of the convergence of the Heisenberg dynamics has been revised
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. Vol. 254, no.2, 489-512, March 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309056
abstract: We consider a Markovian approximation, of weak coupling type, to an open system perturbation involving emission, absorption and scattering by reservoir quanta. The result is the general form for a quantum stochastic flow driven by creation, annihilation and gauge processes. A weak matrix limit is established for the convergence of the interaction-picture unitary to a unitary, adapted quantum stochastic process and of the Heisenberg dynamics to the corresponding quantum stochastic flow: the convergence strategy is similar to the quantum functional central limits introduced by Accardi, Frigerio and Lu$^{[ 1]}$. The principal terms in the Dyson series expansions are identified and re-summed after the limit to obtain explicit quantum stochastic differential equations with renormalized coefficients. An extension of the Pul\UNICODE{0xe9} inequalities$^{[ 2]}$ allows uniform estimates for the Dyson series expansion for both the unitary operator and the Heisenberg evolution to be obtained.

id: quant-ph/0309057
title: Quantum Markovian Approximations for Fermionic Reservoirs
authors: John Gough, Andrei Sobolev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309057
abstract: We establish a quantum functional central limit for the dynamics of a system coupled to a Fermionic bath with a general interaction linear in the creation, annihilation and scattering of the bath reservoir. Following a quantum Markovian limit, we realize the open dynamical evolution of the system as an adapted quantum stochastic process driven by Fermionic Noise.

id: quant-ph/0309058
title: Tailoring photonic entanglement in high-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Hugues de Riedmatten, Ivan Marcikic, Valerio Scarani, Wolfgang Tittel, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 050304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309058
abstract: We present an experiment where two photonic systems of arbitrary dimensions can be entangled. The method is based on spontaneous parametric down conversion with trains of d pump pulses with a fixed phase relation, generated by a mode-locked laser. This leads to a photon pair created in a coherent superposition of $d$ discrete emission times, given by the successive laser pulses. Entanglement is shown by performing a two-photon interference experiment and by observing the visibility of the interference fringes increasing as a function of the dimension d. Factors limiting the visibility, such as the presence of multiple pairs in one train, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309059
title: The geometry of quantum learning
authors: Markus Hunziker, David A. Meyer, Jihun Park, James Pommersheim, Mitch Rothstein
comments: 20 pages, plain TeX with amssym.tex, related work at this http URL and this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309059
abstract: Concept learning provides a natural framework in which to place the problems solved by the quantum algorithms of Bernstein-Vazirani and Grover. By combining the tools used in these algorithms--quantum fast transforms and amplitude amplification--with a novel (in this context) tool--a solution method for geometrical optimization problems--we derive a general technique for quantum concept learning. We name this technique "Amplified Impatient Learning" and apply it to construct quantum algorithms solving two new problems: BATTLESHIP and MAJORITY, more efficiently than is possible classically.

id: quant-ph/0309060
title: Improving Gate-Level Simulation of Quantum Circuits
authors: George F. Viamontes, Igor L. Markov, John P. Hayes
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures. Earlier work was reported in quant-ph/0208003; this document shows significantly improved empirical results, matching complexity analyses and a description of the kinds of matrices and vectors that can be simulated in polynomial time and space with QuIDDPro
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 2(5), pp. 347-380, October 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309060
abstract: Simulating quantum computation on a classical computer is a difficult problem. The matrices representing quantum gates, and the vectors modeling qubit states grow exponentially with an increase in the number of qubits. However, by using a novel data structure called the Quantum Information Decision Diagram (QuIDD) that exploits the structure of quantum operators, a useful subset of operator matrices and state vectors can be represented in a form that grows polynomially with the number of qubits. This subset contains, but is not limited to, any equal superposition of n qubits, any computational basis state, n-qubit Pauli matrices, and n-qubit Hadamard matrices. It does not, however, contain the discrete Fourier transform (employed in Shor's algorithm) and some oracles used in Grover's algorithm. We first introduce and motivate decision diagrams and QuIDDs. We then analyze the runtime and memory complexity of QuIDD operations. Finally, we empirically validate QuIDD-based simulation by means of a general-purpose quantum computing simulator QuIDDPro implemented in C++. We simulate various instances of Grover's algorithm with QuIDDPro, and the results demonstrate that QuIDDs asymptotically outperform all other known simulation techniques. Our simulations also show that well-known worst-case instances of classical searching can be circumvented in many specific cases by data compression techniques.

id: quant-ph/0309061
title: The Connection Between Density Matrix Method, Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Lewis-Riesenfeld Invariant Theory
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309061
abstract: This paper is concerned with the connection between density matrix method, supersymmetric quantum mechanics and Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory. It is shown that these three formulations share the common mathematical structure: specifically, all of them have the invariant operators which satisfies the Liouville-Von Neumann equation and the solutions to the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation and/or Schr\"{o}dinger eigenvalue equation can be constructed in terms of the eigenstates of the invariants.

id: quant-ph/0309062
title: Characterization of pure quantum states of multiple qubits using the Groverian entanglement measure
authors: Yishai Shimoni, Daniel Shapira, Ofer Biham
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309062
abstract: The Groverian entanglement measure, G(psi), is applied to characterize a variety of pure quantum states |psi> of multiple qubits. The Groverian measure is calculated analytically for certain states of high symmetry, while for arbitrary states it is evaluated using a numerical procedure. In particular, it is calculated for the class of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, the W states as well as for random pure states of n qubits. The entanglement generated by Grover's algorithm is evaluated by calculating G(psi) for the intermediate states that are obtained after t Grover iterations, for various initial states and for different sets of the marked states.

id: quant-ph/0309063
title: One dimensional quantum walk with unitary noise
authors: Daniel Shapira, Ofer Biham, A.J. Bracken, Michelle Hackett
comments: 28 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309063
abstract: The effect of unitary noise on the discrete one-dimensional quantum walk is studied using computer simulations. For the noiseless quantum walk, starting at the origin (n=0) at time t=0, the position distribution Pt(n) at time t is very different from the Gaussian distribution obtained for the classical random walk. Furthermore, its standard deviation, sigma(t) scales as sigma(t) ~ t, unlike the classical random walk for which sigma(t) ~ sqrt{t}. It is shown that when the quantum walk is exposed to unitary noise, it exhibits a crossover from quantum behavior for short times to classical-like behavior for long times. The crossover time is found to be T ~ alpha^(-2) where alpha is the standard deviation of the noise.

id: quant-ph/0309064
title: On the Quantum Computational Complexity of the Ising Spin Glass Partition Function and of Knot Invariants
authors: Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 8 pages, incl. 2 figures. v2: Substantially rewritten
journal: New J. Phys. 6 (2004) 167
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309064
abstract: It is shown that the canonical problem of classical statistical thermodynamics, the computation of the partition function, is in the case of +/-J Ising spin glasses a particular instance of certain simple sums known as quadratically signed weight enumerators (QWGTs). On the other hand it is known that quantum computing is polynomially equivalent to classical probabilistic computing with an oracle for estimating QWGTs. This suggests a connection between the partition function estimation problem for spin glasses and quantum computation. This connection extends to knots and graph theory via the equivalence of the Kauffman polynomial and the partition function for the Potts model.

id: quant-ph/0309065
title: Contextualist viewpoint to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger paradox
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: By taking into account contextualism of probabilities, i.e., dependence on complexes of experimental physical conditions, we resolve GHZ-paradox
journal: Physics Letters A, v. 278, p.307-314, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309065
abstract: We present probabilistic analysis of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) scheme in the contextualist framework, namely under the assumption that distributions of hidden variables depend on settings of measurement devices. On one hand, we found classes of probability distributions of hidden variables for that the GHZ scheme does not imply a contradiction between the local realism and quantum formalism. On the other hand, we found classes of probability distributions of hidden variables for that the GHZ scheme still induce such a contradiction (despite variations of distributions). It is also demonstrated that (well known in probability theory) singularity/absolute continuity dichotomy for probability distributions is closely related to the GHZ paradox. Our conjecture is that this GHZ-coupling between singularity/absolute continuity dichotomy and incompatible/compatible measurements might be a general feature of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0309066
title: Probabilistic foundations of quantum mechanics and quantum information
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Contextual probabilistic viewpoint to quantum cryptography project
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309066
abstract: We discuss foundation of quantum mechanics (interpretations, superposition, principle of complementarity, locality, hidden variables) and quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0309067
title: Measuring the Density Matrix by Local Addressing
authors: Z. Kis, S. Stenholm
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 64, 065401 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309067
abstract: We introduce a procedure to measure the density matrix of a material system. The density matrix is addressed locally in this scheme by applying a sequence of delayed light pulses. The procedure is based on the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) technique. It is shown that a series of population measurements on the target state of the population transfer process yields unambiguous information about the populations and coherences of the addressed states, which therefore can be determined.

id: quant-ph/0309068
title: Quantum lower bounds for the set equality problems
authors: Gatis Midrijanis
comments: 7 pages, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309068
abstract: The set equality problem is to decide whether two sets $A$ and $B$ are equal or disjoint, under the promise that one of these is the case. Some other problems, like the Graph Isomorphism problem, is solvable by reduction to the set quality problem. It was an open problem to find any $w(1)$ query lower bound when sets $A$ and $B$ are given by quantum oracles with functions $a$ and $b$. We will prove $\Omega(\frac{n^{1/3}}{\log^{1/3} n})$ lower bound for the set equality problem when the set of the preimages are very small for every element in $A$ and $B$.

id: quant-ph/0309069
title: Generation of entangled 3D localized quantum wave-packets via optical parametric amplification
authors: Claudio Conti
comments: 7 pages, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309069
abstract: In the framework of the paraxial and of the slowly varying envelope approximations, with reference to a normally dispersive medium or to vacuum, the electromagnetic field is given as a continuous quantum superposition of non-dispersive and non-diffracting wave-packets (namely X-waves). Entangled states as pairs of elementary excitations traveling at (approximately) the same velocity are found in optical parametric amplification.

id: quant-ph/0309070
title: Quantum convolution and quantum correlation algorithms are physically impossible
authors: Chris Lomont
comments: 10 pages. Added reference to similar work, and fixed two typos from DCT to DFT
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309070
abstract: The key step in classical convolution and correlation algorithms, the componentwise multiplication of vectors after initial Fourier Transforms, is shown to be physically impossible to do on quantum states. Then this is used to show that computing the convolution or correlation of quantum state coefficients violates quantum mechanics, making convolution and correlation of quantum coefficients physically impossible.

id: quant-ph/0309071
title: Generation of ultrabright tunable polarization entanglement without spatial, spectral, or temporal constraints
authors: Marco Fiorentino, Gaetan Messin, Christopher E. Kuklewicz, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309071
abstract: The need for spatial and spectral filtering in the generation of polarization entanglement is eliminated by combining two coherently-driven type-II spontaneous parametric downconverters. The resulting ultrabright source emits photon pairs that are polarization entangled over the entire spatial cone and spectrum of emission. We detect a flux of $\sim$12 000 polarization-entangled pairs/s per mW of pump power at 90% quantum-interference visibility, and the source can be temperature tuned for 5 nm around frequency degeneracy. The output state is actively controlled by precisely adjusting the relative phase of the two coherent pumps.

id: quant-ph/0309072
title: About economic qubit cloning
authors: Thomas Durt, Jiangfeng Du
comments: No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309072
abstract: In this paper we establish a deep connection between the 3 qubit one-to-two phase-covariant quantum cloning network of Fuchs et al. [C. Fuchs, N. Gisin, R.B. Griffiths, C.S. Niu, and A. Peres, Phys. Rev. A 56 no 4, 1163 (1997)], and its economic 2 qubit counterpart due to Niu and Griffiths [Phys.Rev. A 60 no 4, 2764 (1999)]. A general, necessary and sufficient criterion is derived in order to characterize the reducibility of 3 qubit cloners to 2 qubit cloners. When this criterion is fulfilled, economic cloning is possible. We show that the optimal isotropic or universal 3 qubit cloning machine is not reducible to a 2 qubit cloner.

id: quant-ph/0309073
title: Entanglement for a two-parameter class of states in $2\otimes n$ quantum system
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Soojoon Lee
comments: 10 pages, including 4 figures, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 36, 11503 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309073
abstract: We exhibit a two-parameter class of states $\rho_{(\alpha,\gamma)}$, in $2\otimes n$ quantum system for $n\ge 3$, which can be obtained from an arbitrary state by means of local quantum operations and classical communication, and which are invariant under all bilateral %unitary operations %of the form $U\otimes U$ on $2\otimes n$ quantum system. We calculate the negativity of $\rho_{(\alpha,\gamma)}$, and a lower bound and a tight upper bound on its entanglement of formation. It follows from this calculation that the entanglement of formation of $\rho_{(\alpha,\gamma)}$ cannot exceed its negativity.

id: quant-ph/0309074
title: Adiabatic creation of coherent superposition states via multiple intermediate states
authors: A. Karpati, Z Kis
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. B-At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 36, 905-919 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309074
abstract: We consider an adiabatic population transfer process that resembles the well established stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP). In our system, the states have nonzero angular momentums $J$, therefore, the coupling laser fields induce transitions among the magnetic sublevels of the states. In particular, we discuss the possibility of creating coherent superposition states in a system with coupling pattern $J=0\Leftrightarrow J=1$ and $J=1\Leftrightarrow J=2$. Initially, the system is in the J=0 state. We show that by two delayed, overlapping laser pulses it is possible to create any final superposition state of the magnetic sublevels $|2,-2>$, $|2,0>$, $|2,+2>$. Moreover, we find that the relative phases of the applied pulses influence not only the phases of the final superposition state but the probability amplitudes as well. We show that if we fix the shape and the time-delay between the pulses, the final state space can be entirely covered by varying the polarizations and relative phases of the two pulses. Performing numerical simulations we find that our transfer process is nearly adiabatic for the whole parameter set.

id: quant-ph/0309075
title: Analytic calculation of nonadiabatic transition probabilities from monodromy of differential equations
authors: T. Kato, K. Nakamura, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 5803-5815
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309075
abstract: The nonadiabatic transition probabilities in the two-level systems are calculated analytically by using the monodromy matrix determining the global feature of the underlying differential equation. We study the time-dependent 2x2 Hamiltonian with the tanh-type plus sech-type energy difference and with constant off-diagonal elements as an example to show the efficiency of the monodromy approach. The application of this method to multi-level systems is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309076
title: Two interacting hard disks within a circular cavity: towards a quantal equation of states
authors: T. Kato, N. Nakazono, K. Nakamura
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309076
abstract: We investigate a circular cavity billiard within which a pair of identical hard disks of smaller but finite size is confined. Each disk shows a free motion except when bouncing elastically with its partner and with the boundary wall. Despite its circular symmetry, this system is nonintegrable and almost chaotic because of the (short-range) interaction between the disks. We quantize the system by incorporating the excluded volume effect for the wavefunction. Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are obtained by tuning the relative size between the disks and the billiard. We define the volume V of the cavity and the pressure P, i.e., the derivative of each eigenvalue with respect to V. Reflecting the fact that the energy spectra of eigenvalues versus the disk size show a multitude of level repulsions, P-V characteristics shows the anomalous fluctuations accompanied by many van der Waals-like peaks in each of individual excited eigenstates taken as a quasi-equilibrium. For each eigenstate, we calculate the expectation values of the square distance between two disks, and point out their relationship with the pressure fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0309077
title: A Constant Complexity Algorithm for Solving the Boolean Satisfiability Problem on Quantum Computers
authors: Ahmed Younes, Julian Miller
comments: This paper has been withdrawn. Please refer to quant-ph/0311171
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309077
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author(s). Please refer to quant-ph/0311171.

id: quant-ph/0309078
title: Continuous variable entanglement and quantum state teleportation between optical and macroscopic vibrational modes through radiation pressure
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062317 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309078
abstract: We study an isolated, perfectly reflecting, mirror illuminated by an intense laser pulse. We show that the resulting radiation pressure efficiently entangles a mirror vibrational mode with the two reflected optical sideband modes of the incident carrier beam. The entanglement of the resulting three-mode state is studied in detail and it is shown to be robust against the mirror mode temperature. We then show how this continuous variable entanglement can be profitably used to teleport an unknown quantum state of an optical mode onto the vibrational mode of the mirror.

id: quant-ph/0309079
title: Coherent oscillations in a single electron spin at room temperature
authors: F. Jelezko, T. Gaebel, I. Popa, A. Gruber, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309079
abstract: Rabi nutations of a single electron spin in a single defect center have been detected. The coherent evolution of the spin quantum state is followed via optical detection of the spin state. Coherence times up to several microseconds at room temperature have been measured. Optical readout of the spin states leads to decoherence, equivalent to the so-called Zeno effect. Quantum beats between electron spin transitions in a single spin Hahn echo experiment are observed. A closer analysis reveals that beats also result from the hyperfine coupling of the electron spin to a single 14N nuclear spin. The results are analysed in terms of a density matrix approach of an electron spin interacting with two oscillating fields.

id: quant-ph/0309080
title: The Complexity of Probabilistic versus Quantum Finite Automata
authors: Gatis Midrijanis
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: SOFSEM 2002 Proceedings,, pp. 273-278
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309080
abstract: We present a language $L_n$ which is recognizable by a probabilistic finite automaton (PFA) with probability $1 - \epsilon$ for all $\epsilon > 0$ with $O(log^2n)$ states, with a deterministic finite automaton (DFA) with O(n) states, but a quantum finite automaton (QFA) needs at least $2^{\Omega(n/ \log n)}$ states.

id: quant-ph/0309081
title: Completely positive maps with memory
authors: Sonja Daffer, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz, James D. Cresser, John K. McIver
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 010304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309081
abstract: The prevailing description for dissipative quantum dynamics is given by the Lindblad form of a Markovian master equation, used under the assumption that memory effects are negligible. However, in certain physical situations, the master equation is essentially of a non-Markovian nature. This paper examines master equations that possess a memory kernel, leading to a replacement of white noise by colored noise. The conditions under which this leads to a completely positive, trace-preserving map are discussed for an exponential memory kernel. A physical model that possesses such an exponential memory kernel is presented. This model contains a classical, fluctuating environment based on random telegraph signal stochastic variables.

id: quant-ph/0309082
title: Decoherence in strongly coupled quantum oscillators
authors: M. A. de Ponte, M. C. de Oliveira, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309082
abstract: In this paper we present a comprehensive analysis of the coherence phenomenon of two coupled dissipative oscillators. The action of a classical driving field on one of the oscillators is also analyzed. Master equations are derived for both regimes of weakly and strongly interacting oscillators from which interesting results arise concerning the coherence properties of the joint and the reduced system states. The strong coupling regime is required to achieve a large frequency shift of the oscillator normal modes, making it possible to explore the whole profile of the spectral density of the reservoirs. We show how the decoherence process may be controlled by shifting the normal mode frequencies to regions of small spectral density of the reservoirs. Different spectral densities of the reservoirs are considered and their effects on the decoherence process are analyzed. For oscillators with different damping rates, we show that the worse-quality system is improved and vice-versa, a result which could be useful for quantum state protection. State recurrence and swap dynamics are analyzed as well as their roles in delaying the decoherence process.

id: quant-ph/0309083
title: Dynamics of quantum trajectories in chaotic systems
authors: D. A. Wisniacki, F. Borondo, R. M. Benito
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 64, 441 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309083
abstract: Quantum trajectories defined in the de Broglie--Bohm theory provide a causal way to interpret physical phenomena. In this Letter, we use this formalism to analyze the short time dynamics induced by unstable periodic orbits in a classically chaotic system, a situation in which scars are known to play a very important role. We find that the topologies of the quantum orbits are much more complicated than that of the scarring and associated periodic orbits, since the former have quantum interference built in. Thus scar wave functions are necessary to analyze the corresponding dynamics. Moreover, these topologies imply different return routes to the vicinity of the initial positions, and this reflects in the existence of different contributions in each peak of the survival probability function.

id: quant-ph/0309084
title: Low-light-level nonlinear optics with slow light
authors: Danielle A. Braje, Vlatko Balic, G. Y. Yin, S. E. Harris
comments: to be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309084
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency in an optically thick, cold medium creates a unique system where pulse-propagation velocities may be orders of magnitude less than $c$ and optical nonlinearities become exceedingly large. As a result, nonlinear processes may be efficient at low-light levels. Using an atomic system with three, independent channels, we demonstrate a quantum interference switch where a laser pulse with an energy density of $\sim23$ photons per $\lambda^2/(2\pi)$ causes a 1/e absorption of a second pulse.

id: quant-ph/0309085
title: Wavelength Teleportation via Distant Quantum Entanglement
authors: M.S. Shahriar, P. Pradhan, V. Gopal, G. Pati, G.C. Cardoso
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309085
abstract: Recently, we have shown theoretically [1] as well as experimentally [2] how the phase of an electromagnetic field can be determined by measuring the population of either of the two states of a two-level atomic system excited by this field, via the so-called Bloch-Siegert oscillation resulting from the interference between the co- and counter-rotating excitations. Here, we show how a degenerate entanglement, created without transmitting any timing signal, can be used to teleport this phase information. This phase-teleportation process may be applied to achieve wavelength teleportation, which in turn may be used for frequency-locking of remote oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0309086
title: Long-time and unitary properties of semiclassical initial value representations
authors: C. Harabati, J. M. Rost, F. Grossmann
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, corrected typos and figure 1 (d)
journal: J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 120, No. 1, 1 January 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309086
abstract: We numerically compare the semiclassical ``frozen Gaussian'' Herman-Kluk propagator [Chem. Phys. 91, 27 (1984)] and the ``thawed Gaussian'' propagator put forward recently by Baranger et al. [J. Phys. A 34, 7227 (2001)] by studying the quantum dynamics in some nonlinear one-dimensional potentials. The reasons for the lack of long time accuracy and norm conservation in the latter method are uncovered. We amend the thawed Gaussian propagator with a global harmonic approximation for the stability of the trajectories and demonstrate that this revised propagator is a true alternative to the Herman-Kluk propagator with similar accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0309087
title: Equivalence of Classical Statistics and Quantum Dynamics of Well-Posed Bosonic Field Theories
authors: Paul J. Werbos, Ludmila Dolmatova Werbos
comments: 40 pages, published version, small clarifications, new appendix results
journal: Problems of Nonlinear Analysis in Engineering Systems, No.3, Vol.9, 2003, IFNA-ANS journal
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309087
abstract: Quantum Field Theory (QFT) makes predictions by combining two sets of assumptions: (1) quantum dynamics, such as a Schrodinger or Liouville equation; (2) quantum measurement, such as stochastic collapse to an eigenfunction of a measurement operator. A previous paper defined a classical density matrix R encoding the statistical moments of an ensemble of states of classical second-order Hamiltonian field theory. It proved Tr(RQ)=E(Q), etc., for the usual field operators as defined by Weinberg, and it proved that those observables of the classical system obey the usual Heisenberg dynamic equation. However, R itself obeys dynamics different from the usual Liouville equation! This paper derives those dynamics and the discrepancy between CFT and normal form QFT in predicting any observables g(Q,P). There is some preliminary evidence for the conjecture that the discrepancies disappear in equilibrium states (bound states and scattering states) for finite bosonic field theories. Even if not, they appear small enough to warrant reconsideration of CFT as a theory of dynamics. Appendix proposes alternative closure of turbulence based on modified Bogliubov transforms, an application where ordinary ones become undefined.

id: quant-ph/0309088
title: Entropy as a function of Geometric Phase
authors: Julian Hartley, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309088
abstract: We give a closed-form solution of von Neumann entropy as a function of geometric phase modulated by visibility and average distinguishability in Hilbert spaces of two and three dimensions. We show that the same type of dependence also exists in higher dimensions. We also outline a method for measuring both the entropy and the phase experimentally using a simple Mach-Zehnder type interferometer which explains physically why the two concepts are related.

id: quant-ph/0309089
title: Berry phase in entangled systems: a proposed experiment with single neutrons
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Katharina Durstberger, Yuji Hasegawa, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, Introduction extended, References added
journal: Phys.Rev.A69:032112,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309089
abstract: The influence of the geometric phase, in particular the Berry phase, on an entangled spin-1/2 system is studied. We discuss in detail the case, where the geometric phase is generated only by one part of the Hilbert space. We are able to cancel the effects of the dynamical phase by using the ``spin-echo'' method. We analyze how the Berry phase affects the Bell angles and the maximal violation of a Bell inequality. Furthermore we suggest an experimental realization of our setup within neutron interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0309090
title: Optimal State Discrimination Using Particle Statistics
authors: S. Bose, A. Ekert, Y. Omar, N. Paunkovic, V. Vedral
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052309 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309090
abstract: We present an application of particle statistics to the problem of optimal ambiguous discrimination of quantum states. The states to be discriminated are encoded in the internal degrees of freedom of identical particles, and we use the bunching and antibunching of the external degrees of freedom to discriminate between various internal states. We show that we can achieve the optimal single-shot discrimination probability using only the effects of particle statistics. We discuss interesting applications of our method to detecting entanglement and purifying mixed states. Our scheme can easily be implemented with the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0309091
title: Prior information: how to circumvent the standard joint-measurement uncertainty relation
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: revtex4, no figures, much improved exposition of optimal estimates (thanks to excellent referee), to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (2004) 052113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309091
abstract: The principle of complementarity is quantified in two ways: by a universal uncertainty relation valid for arbitrary joint estimates of any two observables from a given measurement setup, and by a general uncertainty relation valid for the_optimal_ estimates of the same two observables when the state of the system prior to measurement is known. A formula is given for the optimal estimate of any given observable, based on arbitrary measurement data and prior information about the state of the system, which generalises and provides a more robust interpretation of previous formulas for ``local expectations'' and ``weak values'' of quantum observables. As an example, the canonical joint measurement of position X and momentum P corresponds to measuring the commuting operators X_J=X+X', P_J=P-P', where the primed variables refer to an auxilary system in a minimum-uncertainty state. It is well known that Delta X_J Delta P_J >= hbar. Here it is shown that given the_same_ physical experimental setup, and knowledge of the system density operator prior to measurement, one can make improved joint estimates X_est and P_est of X and P. These improved estimates are not only statistically closer to X and P: they satisfy Delta X_est Delta P_est >= hbar/4, where equality can be achieved in certain cases. Thus one can do up to four times better than the standard lower bound (where the latter corresponds to the limit of_no_ prior information). Other applications include the heterodyne detection of orthogonal quadratures of a single-mode optical field, and joint measurements based on Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations.

id: quant-ph/0309092
title: Higher Order Measures, Generalized Quantum Mechanics and Hopf Algebras
authors: Chryssomalis Chryssomalakos, Micho Durdevich
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 197-212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309092
abstract: We study Sorkin's proposal of a generalization of quantum mechanics and find that the theories proposed derive their probabilities from $k$-th order polynomials in additive measures, in the same way that quantum mechanics uses a probability bilinear in the quantum amplitude and its complex conjugate. Two complementary approaches are presented, a $C^*$ and a Hopf-algebraic one, illuminating both algebraic and geometric aspects of the problem.

id: quant-ph/0309093
title: The transition to classical chaos in a coupled quantum system through continuous measurement
authors: Shohini Ghose, Paul Alsing, Ivan Deutsch, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A69 (2004) 052116
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309093
abstract: Continuous observation of a quantum system yields a measurement record that faithfully reproduces the classically predicted trajectory provided that the measurement is sufficiently strong to localize the state in phase space but weak enough that quantum backaction noise is negligible. We investigate the conditions under which classical dynamics emerges, via continuous position measurement, for a particle moving in a harmonic well with its position coupled to internal spin. As a consequence of this coupling we find that classical dynamics emerges only when the position and spin actions are both large compared to $\hbar$. These conditions are quantified by placing bounds on the size of the covariance matrix which describes the delocalized quantum coherence over extended regions of phase space. From this result it follows that a mixed quantum-classical regime (where one subsystem can be treated classically and the other not) does not exist for a continuously observed spin 1/2 particle. When the conditions for classicallity are satisfied (in the large-spin limit), the quantum trajectories reproduce both the classical periodic orbits as well as the classically chaotic phase space regions. As a quantitative test of this convergence we compute the largest Lyapunov exponent directly from the measured quantum trajectories and show that it agrees with the classical value.

id: quant-ph/0309094
title: Model study on the photoassociation of a pair of trapped atoms into an ultralong-range molecule
authors: B. Deb, L. You
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A (September, 2003)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 033408 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309094
abstract: Using the method of quantum-defect theory, we calculate the ultralong-range molecular vibrational states near the dissociation threshold of a diatomic molecular potential which asymptotically varies as $-1/R^3$. The properties of these states are of considerable interest as they can be formed by photoassociation (PA) of two ground state atoms. The Franck-Condon overlap integrals between the harmonically trapped atom-pair states and the ultralong-range molecular vibrational states are estimated and compared with their values for a pair of untrapped free atoms in the low-energy scattering state. We find that the binding between a pair of ground-state atoms by a harmonic trap has significant effect on the Franck-Condon integrals and thus can be used to influence PA. Trap-induced binding between two ground-state atoms may facilitate coherent PA dynamics between the two atoms and the photoassociated diatomic molecule.

id: quant-ph/0309095
title: Quantum force due to distinct boundary conditions
authors: Tamas Fulop, Hitoshi Miyazaki, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: Tex, 10 pages; first version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309095
abstract: We calculate the quantum statistical force acting on a partition wall that divides a one dimensional box into two halves. The two half boxes contain the same (fixed) number of noninteracting bosons, are kept at the same temperature, and admit the same boundary conditions at the outer walls; the only difference is the distinct boundary conditions imposed at the two sides of the partition wall. The net force acting on the partition wall is nonzero at zero temperature and remains almost constant for low temperatures. As the temperature increases, the force starts to decrease considerably, but after reaching a minimum it starts to increase, and tends to infinity with a square-root-of-temperature asympotics. This example demonstrates clearly that distinct boundary conditions cause remarkable physical effects for quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0309096
title: Binary optical communication in single-mode and entangled quantum noisy channels
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. Vol. 6, 69 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309096
abstract: We address binary optical communication in single-mode and entangled quantum noisy channels. For single-mode we present a systematic comparison between direct photodetection and homodyne detection in realistic conditions, i.e. taking into account the noise that occurs both during the propagation and the detection of the signals. We then consider entangled channels based on twin-beam state of radiation, and show that with realistic heterodyne detection the error probability at fixed channel energy is reduced in comparison to the single-mode cases for a large range of values of quantum efficiency and noise parameters.

id: quant-ph/0309097
title: Optimized teleportation in Gaussian noisy channels
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris, Andrea R. Rossi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A Vol. 319, 32 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309097
abstract: We address continuous variable quantum teleportation in Gaussian quantum noisy channels, either thermal or squeezed-thermal. We first study the propagation of twin-beam and evaluate a threshold for its separability. We find that the threshold for purely thermal channels is always larger than for squeezed-thermal ones. On the other hand, we show that squeezing the channel improves teleportation of squeezed states and, in particular, we find the class of squeezed states that are better teleported in a given noisy channel. Finally, we find regimes where optimized teleportation of squeezed states improves amplitude-modulated communication in comparison with direct transmission.

id: quant-ph/0309098
title: The Stochastic Sector of Interacting-Free Quantum Field Theory
authors: John Gough
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 38 (1997) 867-881
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309098
abstract: The Quantum Stochastic Limit of a quantum mechanical particle coupled to a quantum field without the neglect of the response details of the interaction (i.e. not making the dipole approximation) is made following the treatment of Accardi and Lu [6] and the corresponding Quantum Stochastic Structure is derived. The stochastic sector for the noise is constructed and is shown to be of a qualitatively new type. We also include a physical discussion on the limit noise which obeys Interacting-Free statistics and include a new shorter proof of the noise convergence and also a new construction of Interacting-Free Fock Space.

id: quant-ph/0309099
title: Anticrossings in Foerster Coupled Quantum Dots
authors: Ahsan Nazir, Brendon Lovett, Sean Barrett, John H. Reina, Andrew Briggs
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures. Published version. Substantially revised, new sections on decay rates, absorption spectra, and tunneling
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 045334 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309099
abstract: We consider two coupled generic quantum dots, each modelled by a simple potential which allows the derivation of an analytical expression for the inter-dot Foerster coupling, in the dipole-dipole approximation. We investigate the energy level behaviour of this coupled two-dot system under the influence of an external applied electric field and predict the presence of anticrossings in the optical spectra due to the Foerster interaction.

id: quant-ph/0309100
title: Experiments in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: talk presented during the 1st Int. Workshop ``Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics" (Prague, June 16-17, 2003)(revised: 7 pages)
journal: Czechosl. J. Phys. 54 (2004) 151-156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309100
abstract: Extended quantum mechanics using non-Hermitian, pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians is briefly reviewed. Supersymmetric regularizations, solvable simulations and large-N expansion techniques are recollected as suitable means for the study of non-local quasi-particles. Their many-particle or even, perhaps, unstable and decaying generalizations are also considered. Picking up the Klein-Gordon equation and its Feshbach-Villars' Hamiltonian for definiteness, we argue that the PT symmetry might help to clarify experimental aspects of relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0309101
title: Robust quantum parameter estimation: coherent magnetometry with feedback
authors: John K. Stockton, JM Geremia, Andrew C. Doherty, H. Mabuchi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032109 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309101
abstract: We describe the formalism for optimally estimating and controlling both the state of a spin ensemble and a scalar magnetic field with information obtained from a continuous quantum limited measurement of the spin precession due to the field. The full quantum parameter estimation model is reduced to a simplified equivalent representation to which classical estimation and control theory is applied. We consider both the tracking of static and fluctuating fields in the transient and steady state regimes. By using feedback control, the field estimation can be made robust to uncertainty about the total spin number.

id: quant-ph/0309102
title: Quantum Stochastic Generators
authors: John Gough
comments: 18 pages, no figures, updated with discussion on various notions of time-ordered exponentials (Ito/Stratonovich/exponentiated)and their distinct role in quantum stochastic limits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309102
abstract: We discuss stochastic derivations, stochastic Hamiltonians and the flows that they generate, algebraic fluctuaion-dissipation theorems, etc., in a language common to both classical and quantum algebras. It is convenient to define distinct notions of time-ordered exponentials to take account of the breakdown of the Leibniz rule in the Ito calculus. We introduce a notion of quantum Stratonovich calculus and show how it relates to Stratonovich-Dyson time ordered exponentials. We then use it to demonstrate a natural way to add stochastic derivations.

id: quant-ph/0309103
title: Quantum White Noises and The Master Equation for Gaussian Reference States
authors: John Gough
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2003, pp. 142-148
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309103
abstract: We show that a basic quantum white noise process formally reproduces quantum stochastic calculus when the appropriate normal / chronological orderings are prescribed. By normal ordering techniques for integral equations and a generalization of the Araki-Woods representation, we derive the master and random Heisenberg equations for an arbitrary Gaussian state: this includes thermal and squeezed states.

id: quant-ph/0309104
title: Canonical Decompositions of n-qubit Quantum Computations and Concurrence
authors: Stephen S. Bullock, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: v2 corrects odd qubit CCD misstatements, reference chapter for KAK v3 notation change to coincide with sequel, typos. 20 pages, 0 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol 45, issue 6, pp. 2447-2467 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309104
abstract: The two-qubit canonical decomposition SU(4) = [SU(2) \otimes SU(2)] Delta [SU(2) \otimes SU(2)] writes any two-qubit quantum computation as a composition of a local unitary, a relative phasing of Bell states, and a second local unitary. Using Lie theory, we generalize this to an n-qubit decomposition, the concurrence canonical decomposition (C.C.D.) SU(2^n)=KAK. The group K fixes a bilinear form related to the concurrence, and in particular any computation in K preserves the tangle |<phi^*|(-i sigma^y_1)...(-i sigma^y_n)|phi>|^2 for n even. Thus, the C.C.D. shows that any n-qubit quantum computation is a composition of a computation preserving this n-tangle, a computation in A which applies relative phases to a set of GHZ states, and a second computation which preserves it. As an application, we study the extent to which a large, random unitary may change concurrence. The result states that for a randomly chosen a in A within SU(2^{2p}), the probability that a carries a state of tangle 0 to a state of maximum tangle approaches 1 as the even number of qubits approaches infinity. Any v=k_1 a k_2 for such an a \in A has the same property. Finally, although |<phi^*|(-i sigma^y_1)...(-i sigma^y_n)|phi>|^2 vanishes identically when the number of qubits is odd, we show that a more complicated C.C.D. still exists in which K is a symplectic group.

id: quant-ph/0309105
title: Time-frequency bases for BB84 protocol
authors: S. F. Yelin, Bing C. Wang
comments: 4 pages revtex, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309105
abstract: The bases traditionally used for quantum key distribution (QKD) are a 0 or pi/2 polarization or alternatively a 0 or pi/2 phase measured by interferometry. We introduce a new set of bases, i.e. pulses sent in either a frequency or time basis if the pulses are assumed to be transform limited. In addition it is discussed how this scheme can be easily generalized from a binary to an N-dimensional system, i.e., to ``quNdits.'' Optimal pulse distribution and the chances for eavesdropping are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309106
title: Mesoscopic Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics with Quantum Dots
authors: L.I. Childress, A.S. Sorensen, M.D. Lukin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309106
abstract: We describe an electrodynamic mechanism for coherent, quantum mechanical coupling between spacially separated quantum dots on a microchip. The technique is based on capacitive interactions between the electron charge and a superconducting transmission line resonator, and is closely related to atomic cavity quantum electrodynamics. We investigate several potential applications of this technique which have varying degrees of complexity. In particular, we demonstrate that this mechanism allows design and investigation of an on-chip double-dot microscopic maser. Moreover, the interaction may be extended to couple spatially separated electron spin states while only virtually populating fast-decaying superpositions of charge states. This represents an effective, controllable long-range interaction, which may facilitate implementation of quantum information processing with electron spin qubits and potentially allow coupling to other quantum systems such as atomic or superconducting qubits.

id: quant-ph/0309107
title: Universal Signature of Non-Quantum Systems
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 11 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 332 (2004) 187--193
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309107
abstract: It is shown that 'non-quantum systems', with anomalous statistical properties, would carry a distinctive experimental signature. Such systems can exist in deterministic hidden-variables theories (such as the pilot-wave theory of de Broglie and Bohm). The signature consists of non-additive expectations for non-commuting observables, breaking the sinusoidal modulation of quantum probabilities for two-state systems. This effect is independent of the quantum state (pure or mixed), or of the details of the hidden-variables model. Experiments are proposed, testing polarisation probabilities for single photons.

id: quant-ph/0309108
title: An one-time-pad key communication protocol with entanglement
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: 4 pages;PACS: 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ud
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309108
abstract: We present an one-time-pad key communication protocol that allows secure direct communication with entanglement. Alice can send message to Bob in a deterministic manner by using local measurements and public communication. The theoretical efficiency of this protocol is double compared with BB84 protocol. We show this protocol is unconditional secure under arbitrary quantum attack. And we discuss that this protocol can be perfectly implemented with current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0309109
title: Experimental observation of superluminal group velocities in bulk two-dimensional photonic bandgap crystals
authors: D. R. Solli, C. F. McCormick, R. Y. Chiao, J. M. Hickmann
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: D. R. Solli, C. F. McCormick, R. Y. Chiao, and J. M. Hickmann, "Experimental observation of superluminal group velocities in bulk two-dimensional photonic bandgap crystals," Ieee Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics 9(1), 40-42 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309109
abstract: We have experimentally observed superluminal and infinite group velocities in bulk hexagonal two-dimensional photonic bandgap crystals with bandgaps in the microwave region. The group velocities depend on the polarization of the incident radiation and the air-filling fraction of the crystal.

id: quant-ph/0309110
title: Secure key from bound entanglement
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 4 pages, no figures, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 160502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309110
abstract: We characterize the set of shared quantum states which contain a cryptographically private key. This allows us to recast the theory of privacy as a paradigm closely related to that used in entanglement manipulation. It is shown that one can distill an arbitrarily secure key from bound entangled states. There are also states which have less distillable private key than the entanglement cost of the state. In general the amount of distillable key is bounded from above by the relative entropy of entanglement. Relationships between distillability and distinguishability are found for a class of states which have Bell states correlated to separable hiding states. We also describe a technique for finding states exhibiting irreversibility in entanglement distillation.

id: quant-ph/0309111
title: "Local Realism", Bell's Theorem and Quantum "Locally Realistic" Inequalities
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 20 pages, contribution to the special issue of Foundations of Physics in honor of Asher Peres' 70th birthday; v2,3 are substantially improved and extended; v4 contains strengthened theorems
journal: Foundations of Physics 35, N 12, 2051-2072 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309111
abstract: Based on the new general framework for the probabilistic description of experiments, introduced in quant-ph/0305126, quant-ph/0312199, we analyze in mathematical terms the link between the validity of Bell-type inequalities under joint experiments upon a system of any type and the physical concept of "local realism". We prove that the violation of Bell-type inequalities in the quantum case has no connection with the violation of "local realism". In a general setting, we formulate in mathematical terms a condition on "local realism" under a joint experiment and consider examples of quantum "locally realistic" joint experiments. We, in particular, show that quantum joint experiments of the Alice/Bob type are "locally realistic". For an arbitrary bipartite quantum state, we derive quantum analogs of the original Bell inequality. In view of our results, we argue that the violation of Bell-type inequalities in the quantum case cannot be a valid argument in the discussion on locality or non-locality of quantum interactions.

id: quant-ph/0309112
title: Remarks on the Bose description of the Pauli spin operators
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Hai-liang Lu
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309112
abstract: Using both the fermionic-like and the bosonic-like properties of the Pauli spin operators we discuss the Bose description of the Pauli spin operators firstly proposed by Shigefumi Naka, and derive another new bosonic representation of the Pauli spin operators. The eigenvector of $\sigma_{-}$ in the bosonic representation is a nonlinear coherent state with the eigenvalues being the Grassmann numbers.

id: quant-ph/0309113
title: Classical and quantum: some mutual clarifications
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: 13 pages; Proceedings of the Workshop "Multiscale Methods in Quantum Mechanics", Rome, 16-20 December, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309113
abstract: This paper presents two unconventional links between quantum and classical physics. The first link appears in the study of quantum cryptography. In the presence of a spy, the quantum correlations shared by Alice and Bob are imperfect. One can either process the quantum information, recover perfect correlations and finally measure the quantum systems; or, one can perform the measurements first and then process the classical information. These two procedures tolerate exactly the same error rate for a wide class of attacks by the spy. The m second link is drawn between the quantum notions of "no-cloning theorem" and "weak-measurements with post-selection", and simple experiments using classical polarized light and ordinary telecom devices.

id: quant-ph/0309114
title: The non-Markovian quantum behavior of open systems: An exact Monte Carlo method employing stochastic product states
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 29, 105-118 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309114
abstract: It is shown that the exact dynamics of a composite quantum system can be represented through a pair of product states which evolve according to a Markovian random jump process. This representation is used to design a general Monte Carlo wave function method that enables the stochastic treatment of the full non-Markovian behavior of open quantum systems. Numerical simulations are carried out which demonstrate that the method is applicable to open systems strongly coupled to a bosonic reservoir, as well as to the interaction with a spin bath. Full details of the simulation algorithms are given, together with an investigation of the dynamics of fluctuations. Several potential generalizations of the method are outlined.

id: quant-ph/0309115
title: A Dirac Particle in a Complex Potential
authors: Khaled Saaidi
comments: 9 pages, no figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309115
abstract: It has been observed that a quantum mechanical theory need not to be Hermitian to have a real spectrum. In this paper we obtain the eigenvalues of a Dirac charged particle in a complex static and spherically symmetric potential. Furthermore, we study the Complex Morse and complex Coulomb potentials.

id: quant-ph/0309116
title: Eigenvalue Spectrum of a Dirac Particle in Static and Spherical Complex Potential
authors: Khaled Saaidi
comments: 9 pages, no fiugres, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309116
abstract: It has been observed that a quantum theory need not to be Hermitian to have a real spectrum. We study the non-Hermitian relativistic quantum theories for many complex potentials, and we obtain the real relativistic energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions of a Dirac charged particle in complex static and spherically symmetric potentials. Complex Dirac-Eckart, complex Dirac-Rosen-Morse II, complex Dirac-Scarf and complex Dirac-Poschl-Teller potential are investigated.

id: quant-ph/0309117
title: Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Sympathetic Crystallization of Molecular Ions
authors: S. Schiller, C. Laemmerzahl
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309117
abstract: It is shown that the translational degrees of freedom of a large variety of molecules, from light diatomic to heavy organic ones, can be cooled sympathetically and brought to rest (crystallized) in a linear Paul trap. The method relies on endowing the molecules with an appropriate positive charge, storage in a linear radiofrequency trap, and sympathetic cooling. Two well--known atomic coolant species, ${}^9{\hbox{Be}}^+$ and ${}^{137}{\hbox{Ba}}^+$, are sufficient for cooling the molecular mass range from 2 to 20,000 amu. The large molecular charge required for simultaneous trapping of heavy molecules and of the coolant ions can easily be produced using electrospray ionization. Crystallized molecular ions offer vast opportunities for novel studies.

id: quant-ph/0309118
title: The Hilbert-Space Structure of Non-Hermitian Theories with Real Spectra
authors: R. Kretschmer, L. Szymanowski
comments: 5 pages, uses iopart.cls. Talk given by R. Kretschmer at the 1st International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics, Prague, Czech Republic, June 16-17, 2003. To appear in the proceedings
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 54 (2004) 71
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309118
abstract: We investigate the quantum-mechanical interpretation of models with non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and real spectra. After describing a general framework to reformulate such models in terms of Hermitian Hamiltonians defined on the Hilbert space $L_2(-\infty,\infty)$, we discuss the significance of the algebra of physical observables.

id: quant-ph/0309119
title: Unusual quantum states: nonlocality, entropy, Maxwell's daemon, and fractals
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 9 Figures
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society London A461, 733-753 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309119
abstract: This paper analyses the mathematical properties of some unusual quantum states that are constructed by inserting an impenetrable barrier into a chamber confining a single particle.

id: quant-ph/0309120
title: Constructions of Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 8 pages latex
journal: Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Finite Fields (Fq7), Toulouse, France, Springer LNCS, pp. 137-144, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309120
abstract: Two orthonormal bases B and B' of a d-dimensional complex inner-product space are called mutually unbiased if and only if |<b|b'>|^2=1/d holds for all b in B and b' in B'. The size of any set containing (pairwise) mutually unbiased bases of C^d cannot exceed d+1. If d is a power of a prime, then extremal sets containing d+1 mutually unbiased bases are known to exist. We give a simplified proof of this fact based on the estimation of exponential sums. We discuss conjectures and open problems concerning the maximal number of mutually unbiased bases for arbitrary dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0309121
title: Quantum Software Reusability
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 20 pages latex, 11 postscript figures
journal: International Journal on Foundations of Computer Science, 14(5), pages 777-796, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309121
abstract: The design of efficient quantum circuits is an important issue in quantum computing. It is in general a formidable task to find a highly optimized quantum circuit for a given unitary matrix. We propose a quantum circuit design method that has the following unique feature: It allows to construct efficient quantum circuits in a systematic way by reusing and combining a set of highly optimized quantum circuits. Specifically, the method realizes a quantum circuit for a given unitary matrix by implementing a linear combination of representing matrices of a group, which have known fast quantum circuits. We motivate and illustrate this method by deriving extremely efficient quantum circuits for the discrete Hartley transform and for the fractional Fourier transforms. The sound mathematical basis of this design method allows to give meaningful and natural interpretations of the resulting circuits. We demonstrate this aspect by giving a natural interpretation of known teleportation circuits.

id: quant-ph/0309122
title: Momentum-position realization of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox
authors: John C. Howell, Ryan S. Bennink, Sean J. Bentley, R. W. Boyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309122
abstract: We report on a momentum-position realization of the EPR paradox using direct detection in the near and far fields of the photons emitted by collinear type-II phase-matched parametric downconversion. Using this approach we achieved a measured two-photon momentum-position variance product of $0.01\hbar^2$, which dramatically violates the bounds for the EPR and separability criteria.

id: quant-ph/0309123
title: How significant are the known collision and element distinctness quantum algorithms?
authors: Lov Grover, Terry Rudolph
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 4, 201 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309123
abstract: Quantum search is a technique for searching N possibilities in only O(sqrt(N)) steps. It has been applied in the design of quantum algorithms for several structured problems. Many of these algorithms require significant amount of quantum hardware. In this paper we observe that if an algorithm requires O(P) hardware, it should be considered significant if and only if it produces a speedup of at least O(sqrt(P)) over a simple quantum search algorithm. This is because a speedup of $O(sqrt(P)) $ can be trivially obtained by dividing the search space into $O(P)$ separate parts and handing the problem to independent processors that do a quantum search. We argue that the known algorithms for collision and element distinctness fail to be non-trivial in this sense.

id: quant-ph/0309124
title: NuRules and Objective/Observer Measurement
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309124
abstract: New rules are proposed to govern the collapse of a wave function during measurement. These rules apply with or without an observer in the system. They overcome an absurdity that was previous found when an objective state reduction is combined with an observer-based state reduction. Key Words: brain states, conscious observer, detector, measurement, florescent pulsing, probability current, state reduction, three-level atom, von Neumann, wave collapse.

id: quant-ph/0309125
title: NuRule (4) and the 3-Level Atom
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309125
abstract: When a weak decay competes with a strong decay in a 3-level atom, some mechanism is necessary to occasionally stop the strong decay so the weak decay can be completed. Rule (4) provides that mechanism. Using this rule, a weak photon is emitted at the correct time for both the V and L configurations, as well as for the two cascade configurations. Key Words: observer, detector, measurement, florescent pulsing, probability current, state reduction, three-level atom.

id: quant-ph/0309126
title: Rabi spectra - a simple tool for analyzing the limitations of RWA in modelling of the selective population transfer in many-level quantum systems
authors: Duje Bonacci
comments: Formated for a submission to PRA, title slightly changed to better reflect the main result of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309126
abstract: The controlled manipulation of quantum systems is becoming an important technological tool. Rabi oscillations are one of the simplest, yet quite useful mechanisms for achieving such manipulation. However, the validity of simple Rabi theory is limited and its upgrades are usually both technically involved, as well as limited to the simple two-level systems. The aim of this paper is to demonstrate a simple method for analyzing the applicability of the RWA Rabi solutions to the controlled population transfer in complex many-level quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0309127
title: Some Attacks On Quantum-based Cryptographic Protocols
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, Tsz-Mei Ko
comments: Replaced with revised version. 8 pages. No figure. Abstract truncated because of the 24-line limit in quant-ph
journal: Quantum Information and Computation. Vol. 5, No.1 (2005) 40-47.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309127
abstract: Quantum-based cryptographic protocols are often said to enjoy security guaranteed by the fundamental laws of physics. However, even carefully designed quantum-based cryptographic schemes may be susceptible to subtle attacks that are outside the original design. As an example, we give attacks against a recently proposed ``secure communication using mesoscopic coherent states'', which employs mesoscopic states, rather than single-photon states. Our attacks can be used either as a known-plaintext attack or in the case where the plaintext has not been randomized. One of our attacks requires beamsplitters and the replacement of a lossy channel by a lossless one. It is successful provided that the original loss in the channel is so big that Eve can obtain 2^k copies of what Bob receives, where k is the length of the seed key pre-shared by Alice and Bob. Substantial improvements over such an exhaustive key search attack can be made, whenever a key is reused. Furthermore, we remark that, under the same assumption of a known or non-random plaintext, Grover's exhaustive key search attack can be applied directly to "secure communication using mesoscopic coherent states", whenever the channel loss is more than 50 percent. Therefore, as far as information-theoretic security is concerned, optically amplified signals necessarily degrade the security of the proposed scheme, when the plaintext is known or non-random. Our attacks apply even if the mesoscopic scheme is used only for key generation with a subsequent use of the key for one-time-pad encryption.

id: quant-ph/0309128
title: Why Quantum Information Processing
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: This brief note summarizes my personal perspective on the subject. Comments and criticisms are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309128
abstract: In this brief note, I will consider the following questions: (1) What is QIP? (2) Why QIP is interesting? (3) What QIP can do? (4) What QIP cannot do? (5) What are the major challenges in QIP?

id: quant-ph/0309129
title: Certain conclusions of Gordon decomposition
authors: Elena V. Palesheva
comments: 
journal: Mathematical Structures and Modeling. - Omsk, 2002, V. 10, P. 124-129
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309129
abstract: We use a new view to the our reality which is presented by Guts-Deutsch multiverse. In this article, we consider some conclusions of Gordon decomposition of Dirac current.

id: quant-ph/0309130
title: Relation between geometric phases of entangled bi-partite systems and their subsystems
authors: D.M. Tong, E. Sj?qvist, L.C. Kwek, C.H. Oh, M. Ericsson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 022106 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309130
abstract: This paper focuses on the geometric phase of entangled states of bi-partite systems under bi-local unitary evolution. We investigate the relation between the geometric phase of the system and those of the subsystems. It is shown that (1) the geometric phase of cyclic entangled states with non-degenerate eigenvalues can always be decomposed into a sum of weighted non-modular pure state phases pertaining to the separable components of the Schmidt decomposition, though the same cannot be said in the non-cyclic case, and (2) the geometric phase of the mixed state of one subsystem is generally different from that of the entangled state even by keeping the other subsystem fixed, but the two phases are the same when the evolution operator satisfies conditions where each component in the Schmidt decomposition is parallel transported.

id: quant-ph/0309131
title: Perfect state transfer in quantum spin networks
authors: Matthias Christandl, Nilanjana Datta, Artur Ekert, Andrew J. Landahl
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309131
abstract: We propose a class of qubit networks that admit perfect transfer of any quantum state in a fixed period of time. Unlike many other schemes for quantum computation and communication, these networks do not require qubit couplings to be switched on and off. When restricted to N-qubit spin networks of identical qubit couplings, we show that 2 log_3 N is the maximal perfect communication distance for hypercube geometries. Moreover, if one allows fixed but different couplings between the qubits then perfect state transfer can be achieved over arbitrarily long distances in a linear chain.

id: quant-ph/0309132
title: Quantum Optical Construction of Generalized Pauli and Walsh-Hadamard Matrices in Three Level Systems
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex File, 47 pages. This is written in a textbook style which may be readable to graduate students
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309132
abstract: A set of generators of generalized Pauli matrices play a crucial role in quantum computation based on n level systems of an atom. In this paper we show how to construct them by making use of Rabi oscillations. We also construct the generalized Walsh-Hadamard matrix in the case of three level systems and present some related problems.

id: quant-ph/0309133
title: Comparison of Theory and Experiment for a One-Atom Laser in a Regime of Strong Coupling
authors: A. D. Boozer, A. Boca, J. R. Buck, J. McKeever, H. J. Kimble
comments: 19 pages, 14 figures. Added sections on: scaling properties, vacum-Rabi splitting, and optical spectrum
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309133
abstract: Our recent paper reports the experimental realization of a one-atom laser in a regime of strong coupling (Ref. [1]). Here we provide the supporting theoretical analysis relevant to the operating regime of our experiment. By way of a simplified four-state model, we investigate the passage from the domain of conventional laser theory into the regime of strong coupling for a single intracavity atom pumped by coherent external fields. The four-state model is also employed to exhibit the vacuum-Rabi splitting and to calculate the optical spectrum. We next extend this model to incorporate the relevant Zeeman hyperfine states as well as a simple description of the pumping processes in the presence of polarization gradients and atomic motion. This extended model is employed to make quantitative comparisons with the measurements of Ref. [1] for the intracavity photon number versus pump strength and for the photon statistics as expressed by the intensity correlation function g2(tau).

id: quant-ph/0309134
title: Matter waves from localized quantum sources
authors: Tobias Kramer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, to be published in the proceedings of the ICSSUR 2003, Puebla, Mexico
journal: "Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations", Rinton Press (2003), editors: H. Moya-Cessa et al, pp. 210-217
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309134
abstract: Matter waves originating from a localized region in space appear commonly in physics. Examples are photo-electrons, ballistic electrons in nanotechnology devices (scanning-tunneling microscopy, quantum Hall effect), or atoms released from a coherent source (atom laser). We introduce the energy-dependent Green function as a suitable tool to calculate the arising currents. For some systems experimental data is available and in excellent agreement with the presented results.

id: quant-ph/0309135
title: Weak limits for quantum random walks
authors: Geoffrey Grimmett, Svante Janson, Petra Scudo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309135
abstract: We formulate and prove a general weak limit theorem for quantum random walks in one and more dimensions. With $X_n$ denoting position at time $n$, we show that $X_n/n$ converges weakly as $n \to \infty$ to a certain distribution which is absolutely continuous and of bounded support. The proof is rigorous and makes use of Fourier transform methods. This approach simplifies and extends certain preceding derivations valid in one dimension that make use of combinatorial and path integral methods.

id: quant-ph/0309136
title: Comment on "Critical assessment of the Schrodinger picture of quantum mechanics"
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages, revised, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A325:435-437,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309136
abstract: Recently, Faria et al [Phys. Lett. A 305 (2002) 322] discussed an example in which the Heisenberg and the Schrodinger pictures of quantum mechanics gave different results. We identify the mistake in their reasoning and conclude that the example they discussed does not support the inequivalence of these two pictures.

id: quant-ph/0309137
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for quantum-generated correlations
authors: Ll. Masanes
comments: 5 pages, 2 postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309137
abstract: We present a non-linear inequality that completely characterizes the set of correlation functions obtained from bipartite quantum systems, for the case in which measurements on each subsystem can be chosen between two arbitrary dichotomic observables. This necessary and sufficient condition is the maximal strengthening of Cirel'son's bound.

id: quant-ph/0309138
title: Quantum key distribution based on time coding
authors: Thierry Debuisschert, William Boucher
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings from the QELS conference, may 19-24, 2002, QThG4 pp 201-202
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309138
abstract: A quantum key distribution protocol based on time coding uses delayed one photon pulses with minimum time-frequency uncertainty product. Possible overlap between the pulses induces an ambiguous delay measurement and ensures a secure key exchange.

id: quant-ph/0309139
title: 4 states protocol for time coding quantum key distribution
authors: Thierry Debuisschert, William Boucher
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings from the QELS conference, june 1-6, 2003, QTuB2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309139
abstract: Coherent one photon pulses are sent with four possible time delays with respect to a reference. Ambiguity of the photon time detection resulting from pulses overlap combined with interferometric measurement allows for secure key exchange.

id: quant-ph/0309140
title: On improving single photon sources via linear optics and photodetection
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Stefan Scheel, Barry C. Sanders, Peter L. Knight
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 031806(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309140
abstract: In practice, single photons are generated as a mixture of vacuum with a single photon with weights 1-p and p, respectively; here we are concerned with increasing p by directing multiple copies of the single photon-vacuum mixture into a linear optic device and applying photodetection on some outputs to conditionally prepare single photon states with larger p. We prove that it is impossible, under certain conditions, to increase p via linear optics and conditional preparation based on photodetection, and we also establish a class of photodetection events for which p can be improved. In addition we prove that it is not possible to obtain perfect (p=1) single photon states via this method from imperfect (p<1) inputs.

id: quant-ph/0309141
title: Physical solution of 1D quantum N-boson system with zero-range pair interaction
authors: Wenhua Hai, Guishu Chong, Qiongtao Xie
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309141
abstract: The mathematically exact solution of a one-dimensional (1D) quantum N-identical-boson system with zero-range pair interaction has been well known. We find that this solution is non-physical, since there exists a paradox of its energy expectation value, leading a basic contradiction to the mean-field theory of the system. A new integral equation that is equivalent to the corresponding Schrodinger one is established and its formally physical solution is derived. Energy correction from the average potential and harmonic waves of different momentums are demonstrated, and scattering amplitude of the physical solution and mean-field theory of the system are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309142
title: Z_N Gauge Theories on a Lattice and Quantum Memory
authors: Gaku Arakawa, Ikuo Ichinose
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 311 (2004) 152
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309142
abstract: In the present paper we shall study (2+1) dimensional Z_N gauge theories on a lattice. It is shown that the gauge theories have two phases, one is a Higgs phase and the other is a confinement phase. We investigate low-energy excitation modes in the Higgs phase and clarify relationship between the Z_N gauge theories and Kitaev's model for quantum memory and quantum computations. Then we study effects of random gauge couplings(RGC) which are identified with noise and errors in quantum computations by Kitaev's model. By using a duality transformation, it is shown that time-independent RGC give no significant effects on the phase structure and the stability of quantum memory and computations. Then by using the replica methods, we study Z_N gauge theories with time-dependent RGC and show that nontrivial phase transitions occur by the RGC.

id: quant-ph/0309143
title: Extension of the de Broglie-Bohm theory to the Ginzburg-Landau equation
authors: Jorge Berger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309143
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm approach permits to assign well defined trajectories to particles that obey the Schroedinger equation. We extend this approach to electron pairs in a superconductor. In the stationary regime this extension is completely natural; in the general case additional postulates are required. This approach gives enlightening views for the absence of Hall effect in the stationary regime and for the formation of permanent currents.

id: quant-ph/0309144
title: Spatial Localization and Relativistic Transformation of Quantum Spins
authors: Hui Li, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012111 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309144
abstract: The purity of a reduced state for spins that is pure in the rest frame will most likely appear to degrade because spin and momentum become mixed when viewed by a moving observer. We show that such a boost-induced decrease in spin purity observed in a moving reference frame is intrinsically related to the spatial localization properties of the wave package observed in the rest frame. Furthermore, we prove that, for any localized pure state with separable spin and momentum in the rest frame, its reduced density matrix for spins inevitably appears to be mixed whenever viewed from a moving reference frame.

id: quant-ph/0309145
title: All information-theoretically secure key establishing protocols are quantum protocols
authors: Mario Stipcevic
comments: 4 pages, 2 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309145
abstract: A theorem is proved which states that no classical key generating protocol could ever be provably secure. Consequently, candidates for provably secure protocols must rely on some quantum effect. Theorem relies on the fact that BB84 Quantum key distribution protocol has been proven secure.

id: quant-ph/0309146
title: Entanglement Echoes in Quantum Computation
authors: Davide Rossini, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052317 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309146
abstract: We study the stability of entanglement in a quantum computer implementing an efficient quantum algorithm, which simulates a quantum chaotic dynamics. For this purpose, we perform a forward-backward evolution of an initial state in which two qubits are in a maximally entangled Bell state. If the dynamics is reversed after an evolution time $t_r$, there is an echo of the entanglement between these two qubits at time $t_e=2t_r$. Perturbations attenuate the pairwise entanglement echo and generate entanglement between these two qubits and the other qubits of the quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0309147
title: Continuously Guided Atomic Interferometry Using a Single-Zone Optical Excitation: Theoretical Analysis
authors: M.S. Shahriar, M. Jheeta, Y. Tan, P. Pradhan, A. Gangat
comments: 34 pages
journal: Opt. Commun. 243, 183 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309147
abstract: In an atomic interferometer, the phase shift due to rotation is proportional to the area enclosed by the split components of the atom. However, this model is unclear for an atomic interferometer demonstrated recently by Shahriar et al., for which the atom simply passes through a single-zone optical beam, consisting of a pair of bichromatic counter-propagating beams. During the passage, the atomic wave packets in two distinct internal states couple to each other continuously. The two internal states trace out a complicated trajectory, guided by the optical beams, with the amplitude and spread of each wavepacket varying continuously. Yet, at the end of the single-zone excitation, there is an interference with fringe amplitudes that can reach a visibility close to unity. For such a situation, it is not clear how one would define the area of the interferometer, and therefore, what the rotation sensitivity of such an interferometer would be. In this paper we analyze this interferometer in order to determine its rotation sensitivity, and thereby determine its effective area. In many ways, the continuous interferometer (CI) can be thought of as a limiting version of the Borde-Chu Interferometer (BCI). We identify a quality factor that can be used to compare the performance of these interferometers. Under conditions of practical interest, we show that the rotation sensitivity of the CI can be comparable to that of the BCI. The relative simplicity of the CI (e.g., elimination of the task of precise angular alignment of the three zones) then makes it a potentially better candidate for practical atom interferometry for rotation sensing.

id: quant-ph/0309148
title: Exploiting entanglement in communication channels with correlated noise
authors: Jonathan Ball, Andrzej Dragan, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A Vol. 69, 042324 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309148
abstract: We develop a model for a noisy communication channel in which the noise affecting consecutive transmissions is correlated. This model is motivated by fluctuating birefringence of fiber optic links. We analyze the role of entanglement of the input states in optimizing the classical capacity of such a channel. Assuming a general form of an ensemble for two consecutive transmissions, we derive tight bounds on the classical channel capacity depending on whether the input states used for communication are separable or entangled across different temporal slots. This result demonstrates that by an appropriate choice, the channel capacity may be notably enhanced by exploiting entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0309149
title: Directed motion for delta-kicked atoms with broken symmetries: comparison between theory and experiment
authors: P. H. Jones, M. Goonasekera, D. R. Meacher, T. Jonckheere, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures Now includes experimental data on time evolution and comparison with theory
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 98 073002 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309149
abstract: We report an experimental investigation of momentum diffusion in the delta-function kicked rotor where time symmetry is broken by a two-period kicking cycle and spatial symmetry by an alternating linear potential. We exploit this, and a technique involving a moving optical potential, to create an asymmetry in the momentum diffusion that is due to the classical chaotic diffusion. This represents a realization of a type of Hamiltonian quantum ratchet.

id: quant-ph/0309150
title: Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm and Large Spin Tunnelling
authors: A. Boulatov, V.N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309150
abstract: We provide a theoretical study of the quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm with different evolution paths proposed in [E. Farhi, et al., arXiv:quant-ph/0208135]. The algorithm is applied to a random binary optimization problem (a version of the 3-Satisfiability problem) where the n-bit cost function is symmetric with respect to the permutation of individual bits. The evolution paths are produced, using the generic control Hamiltonians H(\tau) that preserve the bit symmetry of the underlying optimization problem. In the case where the ground state of H(0) coincides with the totally-symmetric state of an n-qubit system the algorithm dynamics is completely described in terms of the motion of a spin-n/2. We show that different control Hamiltonians can be parameterized by a set of independent parameters that are expansion coefficients of H(\tau) in a certain universal set of operators. Only one of these operators can be responsible for avoiding the tunnelling in the spin-n/2 system during the quantum adiabatic algorithm. We show that it is possible to select a coefficient for this operator that guarantees a polynomial complexity of the algorithm for all problem instances. We show that a successful evolution path of the algorithm always corresponds to the trajectory of a classical spin-n/2 and provide a complete characterization of such paths.

id: quant-ph/0309151
title: Absorption resonance and large negative delay in Rb vapor with buffer gas
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, George R. Welch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: JOSA B, Volume 21, Issue 2, 425-428 February 2004 (http://josab.osa.org/abstract.cfm?id=78824)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309151
abstract: We observe a narrow, isolated, two-photon absorption resonance in Rb for large one-photon detuning in the presence of a buffer gas. In the absence of buffer gas, a standard Lambda configuration of two laser frequencies gives rise to electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) for all values of one-photon detuning throughout the inhomogeneously (Doppler) broadened line. However, when a buffer gas is added and the one-photon detuning is comparable to or greater than the Doppler width, an absorption resonance appears instead of the usual EIT resonance. We also observe large negative group delay (~ -300 us for a Gaussian pulse propagating through the media with respect to a reference pulse not affected by the media), corresponding to a superluminal group velocity v_g= -c/(3.6x10^6)=-84 m/s.

id: quant-ph/0309152
title: Blind Quantum Computation
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Louis Salvail
comments: 8 pages, revtex, revised content
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 5, (2006), pp883-898
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309152
abstract: We investigate the possibility of "having someone carry out the work of executing a function for you, but without letting him learn anything about your input". Say Alice wants Bob to compute some known function f upon her input x, but wants to prevent Bob from learning anything about x. The situation arises for instance if client Alice has limited computational resources in comparison with mistrusted server Bob, or if x is an inherently mobile piece of data. Could there be a protocol whereby Bob is forced to compute f(x) "blindly", i.e. without observing x? We provide such a blind computation protocol for the class of functions which admit an efficient procedure to generate random input-output pairs, e.g. factorization. The cheat-sensitive security achieved relies only upon quantum theory being true. The security analysis carried out assumes the eavesdropper performs individual attacks. Keywords: Secure Circuit Evaluation, Secure Two-party Computation, Information Hiding, Information gain vs disturbance.

id: quant-ph/0309153
title: The Low-Frequency Character of the Thermal Correction to the Casimir Force between Metallic Films
authors: J.R. Torgerson, S.K. Lamoreaux
comments: 6 pages, two figures added discussion of experiments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309153
abstract: The frequency spectrum of the finite temperature correction to the Casimir force can be determined by use of the Lifshitz formalism for metallic plates of finite conductivity. We show that the correction for the $TE$ electromagnetic modes is dominated by frequencies so low that the plates cannot be modelled as ideal dielectrics. We also address issues relating to the behavior of electromagnetic fields at the surfaces and within metallic conductors, and calculate the surface modes using appropriate low-frequency metallic boundary conditions. Our result brings the thermal correction into agreement with experimental results that were previously obtained. We suggest a series of measurements that will test the veracity of our analysis.

id: quant-ph/0309154
title: Stability of Quantum Motion: Beyond Fermi-golden-rule and Lyapunov decay
authors: Wen-ge Wang, G. Casati, Baowen Li
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E v69, 025201(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309154
abstract: We study, analytically and numerically, the stability of quantum motion for a classically chaotic system. We show the existence of different regimes of fidelity decay which deviate from Fermi Golden rule and Lyapunov decay.

id: quant-ph/0309155
title: Operator Method for Nonperturbative Calculation of the Thermodynamic Values in Quantum Statistics. Diatomic Molecular Gas
authors: I.D.Feranchuk, A.A.Ivanov
comments: 22 pages, 7 Postscript figures, accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 2004, Vol.37 P.9841-9860
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309155
abstract: Operator method and cumulant expansion are used for nonperturbative calculation of the partition function and the free energy in quantum statistics. It is shown for Boltzmann diatomic molecular gas with some model intermolecular potentials that the zeroth order approximation of the proposed method interpolates the thermodynamic values with rather good accuracy in the entire range of both the Hamiltonian parameters and temperature. The systematic procedure for calculation of the corrections to the zeroth order approximation is also considered.

id: quant-ph/0309156
title: Entanglement bounds for squeezed non-symmetric thermal state
authors: Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309156
abstract: I study the three parameters bipartite quantum Gaussian state called squeezed asymmetric thermal state, calculate Gaussian entanglement of formation analytically and the up bound of relative entropy of entanglement, compare them with coherent information of the state.Based on the result obtained, one can determine the relative entropy of entanglement of the state with infinitive squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0309157
title: Wave equations with energy dependent potentials
authors: J. Formanek, R. J. Lombard, J. Mares
comments: 33 pages, 5 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309157
abstract: We study wave equations with energy dependent potentials. Simple analytical models are found useful to illustrate difficulties encountered with the calculation and interpretation of observables. A formal analysis shows under which conditions such equations can be handled as evolution equation of quantum theory with an energy dependent potential. Once these conditions are met, such theory can be transformed into ordinary quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0309158
title: Can differently prepared mixed states be distinguished?
authors: Jiri Tolar, Petr Hajicek
comments: 5 pages. This version published in Physics Letters A contains improvements made according to detailed critical comments by Professor B. d'Espagnat
journal: Physics Letters A 353 (2006), No.1, pp.19-23
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309158
abstract: A measurement has been proposed by B. d'Espagnat that would distinguish from one another some ensembles that are differently prepared but correspond to the same density matrix. Here, the idea is modified so that it becomes applicable to much more general situations. The method is illustrated in simple examples. Some matter of concern might then be that information could be transmitted by methods based on our idea in the EPR kind of experiments. A simple proof is given that this is impossible.

id: quant-ph/0309159
title: Integrable systems as quantum mechanics
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: Latex, 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309159
abstract: This is a mainly expository sketch showing how some integrable systems (e.g. KP or KdV) can be viewed as quantum mechanical in nature.

id: quant-ph/0309160
title: Review of studies about quantum communication and foundations of quantum mechanics at IENGF
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: to appear as invited talk in: SPIE Proceedings on Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309160
abstract: In this proceeding I review the main experimental results obtained at IENGF (Turin, Italy) by using a source of entangled photons realised superposing, by means of an optical condenser, type I PDC produced in two crystals. More in details, after having described how this source is built, I will report on a Bell inequalities test obtained with it. Then I describe a recent innovative double slit experiment realised with a similar scheme. Finally, I hint about future developments of this activity at IENGF and in particular about a quantum cryptographic scheme in d=4.

id: quant-ph/0309161
title: Optimization of quantum universal detectors
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Proceedingsof the 8th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations ICSSUR' 2003, Puebla, Mexico - June 9-13, 2003
journal: in "Proceedings of the 8th Int. Conf. on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations", ed. by H. Moya-Cessa et al., (Rinton, Princeton, 2003) p. 86
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309161
abstract: The expectation value <O> of an arbitrary operator O can be obtained via a universal measuring apparatus that is independent of O, by changing only the data-processing of the outcomes. Such a ``universal detector'' performs a joint measurement on the system and on a suitable ancilla prepared in a fixed state, and is equivalent to a positive operator valued measure (POVM) for the system that is ``informationally complete''. The data processing functions generally are not unique, and we pose the problem of their optimization, providing some examples for covariant POVM's, in particular for SU(d) covariance group.

id: quant-ph/0309162
title: Quantum Error Correction in the Zeno Regime
authors: Noam Erez, Yakir Aharonov, Benni Reznik, Lev Vaidman
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (6), 062315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309162
abstract: In order to reduce errors, error correction codes (ECCs) need to be implemented fast. They can correct the errors corresponding to the first few orders in the Taylor expansion of the Hamiltonian of the interaction with the environment. If implemented fast enough, the zeroth order error predominates and the dominant effect is of error prevention by measurement (Zeno Effect) rather than correction. In this ``Zeno Regime'', codes with less redundancy are sufficient for protection. We describe such a simple scheme, which uses two ``noiseless'' qubits to protect a large number, $n$, of information qubits from noise from the environment. The ``noisless qubits'' can be realized by treating them as logical qubits to be encoded by one of the previously introduced encoding schemes.

id: quant-ph/0309163
title: Implementing the fanout gate by a Hamiltonian
authors: Stephen A. Fenner
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309163
abstract: We show that, for even n, evolving n qubits according to a simple Hamiltonian can be used to exactly implement an (n+1)-qubit parity gate, which is equivalent in constant depth to an (n+1)-qubit fanout gate. We also observe that evolving the Hamiltonian for three qubits results in an inversion-on-three-way-equality gate, which together with single-qubit operations is universal for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0309164
title: Coherence Time of a Solid-State Nuclear Qubit
authors: T. D. Ladd, D. Maryenko, E. Abe, K. M. Itoh, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 014401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309164
abstract: We report NMR experiments using high-power, RF decoupling techniques to show that a 29-Si nuclear spin qubit in a solid silicon crystal at room temperature can preserve quantum phase for 10^9 precessional periods. The coherence times we report are longer than for any other observed solid-state qubit by more than four orders of magnitude. In high quality crystals, these times are limited by residual dipolar couplings and can be further improved by isotopic depletion. In defect-heavy samples, we provide evidence for decoherence limited by 1/f noise. These results provide insight toward proposals for solid-state nuclear-spin-based quantum memories and quantum computers based on silicon.

id: quant-ph/0309165
title: Number-phase Wigner function on extended Fock space
authors: Kiyotaka Kakazu
comments: 15 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309165
abstract: On the basis of the phase states, we present the correct integral expressions of the two number-phase Wigner functions discovered so far. These correct forms are derived from those defined in the extended Fock space with negative number states. The analogous conditions to Wigner's original ones cannot lead to the number-phase function uniquely. To show this fact explicitly, we propose another function satisfying all these conditions. It is also shown that the ununiqueness of the number-phase Wigner function result from the phase-periodicity problem.

id: quant-ph/0309166
title: "Measurement" as a neurophysical process: a hypothetical linear and deterministic scenario
authors: L. Polley
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures; v2: reference added, some points elaborated; v3: internal reference added on p12
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309166
abstract: Tunnel amplitudes of molecular configurations (like neuronal channel pores) may be very sensitive to thermal vibrations of the barrier width (vibration-assisted tunneling) resulting in pseudo-random spikes of widely varying sizes. An observer who ``lives'' behind the barrier would experience as an ``event'' an accidental minimum of the barrier width, the timing being determined by the microstate of the neuron's heat bath. In two neurons, set to detect a ``left'' or ``right'' state of an object, firing amplitudes typically differ so much as to produce a quasi-selection of one option.

id: quant-ph/0309167
title: Quantum state restoration by quantum cloning and measurement
authors: K. Maruyama, P.L. Knight
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309167
abstract: Copying information is an elementary operation in classical information processing. However, copying seems rather different in the quantum regime. Since the discovery of the universal quantum cloning machine, much has been found from the fundamental point of view about quantum copying. But a basic question as to the utility of universal quantum cloning remains. We have considered its application in quantum state restoration by using cloning circuit for state estimation. It might be expected that classical information from the state estimation might help restore the quantum state that was disturbed during transmission. We find that the fidelity of the final state is, interestingly, independent of error probabilities inside the channel. However, this also turns out to impose a severe constraint on our original aims.

id: quant-ph/0309168
title: Optical Bistability and Collective Behavior of Atoms trapped in a High-Q Ring Cavity
authors: Th. Elsaesser, B. Nagorny, A. Hemmerich
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309168
abstract: We study the collective motion of atoms confined in an optical lattice operating inside a high finesse ring cavity. A simplified theoretical model for the dynamics of the system is developed upon the assumption of adiabaticity of the atomic motion. We show that in a regime where the light shift per photon times the number of atoms exceeds the line width of the cavity resonance, the otherwise tiny retro-action of the atoms upon the light field becomes a significant feature of the system, giving rise to dispersive optical bistability of the intra-cavity field. A solution of the complete set of classical equations of motion confirms these finding, however additional non-adiabatic phenomena are predicted, as for example self-induced radial breathing oscillations. We compare these results with experiments involving laser-cooled 85Rb atoms trapped in an optical lattice inside a ring cavity with a finesse of 180000. Temperature measurements conducted for moderate values of the atom-cavity interaction demonstrate that intensity-noise induced heating is kept at a very low level, a prerequisite for our further experiments. When we operate at large values of the atom--cavity interaction we observe bistability and breathing oscillations in excellent agreement with our theoretical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0309169
title: Quantum Logic Network for Probabilistic Teleportation of Two-Particle State of General Form
authors: Gao Ting, Wang Zhi-xi, Yan Feng-li
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 20 (2003) 2094-2097
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309169
abstract: A simplification scheme of probabilistic teleportation of two-particle state of general form is given. By means of the primitive operations consisting of single-qubit gates, two-qubit controlled-not gates, Von Neumann measurement and classically controlled operations, we construct an efficient quantum logical network for implementing the new scheme of probabilistic teleportation of a two-particle state of general form.

id: quant-ph/0309170
title: Self Adjoint Extensions of Phase and Time Operators
authors: G. Gour, F. C. Khanna, M. Revzen
comments: Revtex
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 014101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309170
abstract: It is shown that any real and even function of the phase (time) operator has a self-adjoint extension and its relation to the general phase operator problem is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0309171
title: Buffer-gas induced absorption resonances in Rb vapor
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Irina Novikova, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, George R. Welch
comments: 11 pages, 15 figures; 13 pages, 17 figures, added numerical simulation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 033806 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309171
abstract: We observe transformation of the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonance into the absorption resonance in a $\Lambda$ interaction configuration in a cell filled with $^{87}$Rb and a buffer gas. This transformation occurs as a one-photon detuning of the coupling fields is varied from the atomic transition. No such absorption resonance is found in the absence of a buffer gas. The width of the absorption resonance is several times smaller than the width of the EIT resonance, and the changes of absorption near these resonances are about the same. Similar absorption resonances are detected in the Hanle configuration in a buffered cell.

id: quant-ph/0309172
title: Proposed experiment to test the bounds of quantum correlations
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 (2004) 060403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309172
abstract: Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality can give values between the classical bound, 2, and Tsirelson's bound, 2 \sqrt 2. However, for a given set of local observables, there are values in this range which no quantum state can attain. We provide the analytical expression for the corresponding bound for a parametrization of the local observables introduced by Filipp and Svozil, and describe how to experimentally trace it using a source of singlet states. Such an experiment will be useful to identify the origin of the experimental errors in Bell's inequality-type experiments and could be modified to detect hypothetical correlations beyond those predicted by quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0309173
title: Group velocity study in hot Rb vapor with buffer gas
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, George R. Welch
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 50 (15-17): 2645-2654 OCT-NOV 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309173
abstract: We study the behavior of the group velocity of light under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a Doppler broadened medium. Specifically, we show how the group delay (or group velocity) of probe and generated Stokes fields depends on the one-photon detuning of drive and probe fields. We find that for atoms in a buffer gas the group velocity decreases with positive one-photon detuning of the drive fields, and increases when the fields are red detuned. This dependence is counter-intuitive to what would be expected if the one-photon detuning resulted in an interaction of the light with the resonant velocity subgroup.

id: quant-ph/0309174
title: Lewis-Riesenfeld approach to the solutions of Schrodinger equation in the presence of the presence of a time-dependent linear potential
authors: Pi-Gang Luan, Chi-Shung Tang
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, no figure
journal: Physical Review A 71, 014101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309174
abstract: We reexamine the general solution of a Schr\"{o}dinger equation in the presence of a time-dependent linear potential in configuration space based on the Lewis-Riesenfeld framework. For comparison, we also solve the problem in momentum space and then Fourier transform the solution to get the general wave function. Appropriately choosing the weight function in the latter method, we can obtain the same wave function as the former method. It is found that non-Hermitian time-dependent linear invariant can be used to obtain Gaussian-type wave-packet (GTWP) solutions of the time-dependent system. This operator is a specific linear combination of the initial momentum and initial position operators. This fact indicates that the constants of integration such as the initial position and initial momentum that determine the classical motion play important roles in the time-dependent quantum system. The eigenfunction of the linear invariant is interpreted as a wave packet with a "center of mass" moving along the classical trajectory, while the ratio between the coefficients of the initial position and initial momentum determines the width of the wave packet.

id: quant-ph/0309175
title: Nonclassical photon pairs generated from a room-temperature atomic ensemble
authors: Wei Jiang, Chao Han, Peng Xue, L. -M. Duan, G. -C. Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309175
abstract: We report experimental generation of non-classically correlated photon pairs from collective emission in a room-temperature atomic vapor cell. The nonclassical feature of the emission is demonstrated by observing a violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality. Each pair of correlated photons are separated by a controllable time delay up to 2 microseconds. This experiment demonstrates an important step towards the realization of the Duan-Lukin-Cirac-Zoller scheme for scalable long-distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0309176
title: A practice problem for Schr{?}dinger transmission
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309176
abstract: We present the case of quantal transmission through a smooth, single-piece exponential potential, $V(x)=-V_0 e^{x/a}$, in contrast to the piece-wise continuous potentials, as a pedagogic model to demonstrate the analytic extraction of transmission (reflection) co-efficient.

id: quant-ph/0309177
title: Towards a geometrical interpretation of quantum information compression
authors: Graeme Mitchison, Richard Jozsa
comments: 11 pages, latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309177
abstract: Let S be the von Neumann entropy of a finite ensemble E of pure quantum states. We show that S may be naturally viewed as a function of a set of geometrical volumes in Hilbert space defined by the states and that S is monotonically increasing in each of these variables. Since S is the Schumacher compression limit of E, this monotonicity property suggests a geometrical interpretation of the quantum redundancy involved in the compression process. It provides clarification of previous work in which it was shown that S may be increased while increasing the overlap of each pair of states in the ensemble. As a byproduct, our mathematical techniques also provide a new interpretation of the subentropy of E.

id: quant-ph/0309178
title: Quantum theory as a statistical theory under symmetry and complementarity
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: The paper has been withdrawn because it is outdated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309178
abstract: The aim of the paper is to derive essential elements of quantum mechanics from a parametric structure extending that of traditional mathematical statistics. The main extensions, which also can be motivated from an applied statistics point of view, relate to symmetry, the choice between complementary experiments and hence complementary parametric models, and use of the fact that there for simple systems always is a limited experimental basis that is common to all potential experiments. Concepts related to transformation groups together with the statistical concept of sufficiency are used in the construction of the quantummechanical Hilbert space. The Born formula is motivated through recent analysis by Deutsch and Gill, and is shown to imply the formulae of elementary quantum probability/ quantum inference theory in the simple case. Planck's constant, and the Schroedinger equation are also derived from this conceptual framework. The theory is illustrated by one and by two spin 1/2 particles; in particular, a statistical discussion of Bell's inequality is given. Several paradoxes and related themes of conventional quantum mechanics are briefly discussed in the setting introduced here.

id: quant-ph/0309179
title: Casimir stress on lossy magnetodielectric spheres
authors: Christian Raabe, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309179
abstract: An expression for the Casimir stress on arbitrary dispersive and lossy linear magnetodielectric matter at finite temperature, including left-handed material, is derived and applied to spherical systems. To cast the relevant part of the scattering Green tensor for a general magnetodielectric sphere in a convenient form, classical Mie scattering is reformulated.

id: quant-ph/0309180
title: Decoherence-free dynamical and geometrical entangling phase gates
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Almut Beige
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, REVTEX, Eq. (20) corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 033817 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309180
abstract: It is shown that entangling two-qubit phase gates for quantum computation with atoms inside a resonant optical cavity can be generated via common laser addressing, essentially, within one step. The obtained dynamical or geometrical phases are produced by an evolution that is robust against dissipation in form of spontaneous emission from the atoms and the cavity and demonstrates resilience against fluctuations of control parameters. This is achieved by using the setup introduced by Pachos and Walther [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 187903 (2002)] and employing entangling Raman- or STIRAP-like transitions that restrict the time evolution of the system onto stable ground states.

id: quant-ph/0309181
title: The role of coherence entropy of physical twin observables in entanglement
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 19 pages, Latex+Revtex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 8479-8495
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309181
abstract: The concept of physical twin observables (PTO) for bipartite quantum states,introduced and proved relevant for quantum information theory in recent work, is substantially simplified. The relation of observable and state is studied in detail from the point of view of coherence entropy. Properties of this quantity are further explored. It is shown that, besides for pure states, quantum discord (measure of entanglement) can be expressed through the coherence entropy of a PTO complete in relation to the state.

id: quant-ph/0309182
title: Generation of entangled states of two atoms inside a leaky cavity
authors: T. W. Chen, C. K. Law, P. T. Leung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309182
abstract: An in-depth theoretical study is carried out to examine the quasi-deterministic entanglement of two atoms inside a leaky cavity. Two $\Lambda$-type three-level atoms, initially in their ground states, may become maximally entangled through the interaction with a single photon. By working out an exact analytic solution, we show that the probability of success depends crucially on the spectral function of the injected photon. With a cavity photon, one can generate a maximally entangled state with a certain probability that is always less than 50%. However, for an injected photon with a narrower spectral width, this probability can be significantly increased. In particular, we discover situations in which entanglement can be achieved in a single trial with an almost unit probability.

id: quant-ph/0309183
title: C. F. von Weizsaecker's Reconstruction of Physics: Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow
authors: Holger Lyre
comments: In: L. Castell and O. Ischebeck (eds.), "Time, Quantum and Information (Essays in Honor of C. F. von Weizsaecker)," Springer, Berlin, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309183
abstract: Carl Friedrich von Weizsaecker's thinking has always crossed the borders between physics and philosophy. Being a physicist by training he still feels at home in the physics community, as a philosopher by passion, however, his mind cannot stop thinking at the limits of physics. His physical ideas are based on the general conceptual and methodological preconditions of physical theories. Such a line of reasoning about the foundations of physics has brought Weizsaecker into an abstract program of a possible reconstruction of physics in terms of yes-no-alternatives, which he called "ur-theory." I shall start this paper with a review of the basic ideas of ur-theory: the definition of an ur and the connection between ur-spinors and spacetime. I then go over to some of ur-theory's present borders: the construction of quantized spacetime tetrads and the difficulties to incorporate gravity and gauge theories. Finally, I shall discuss the possible prospects of ur-theory -- partly with a view to modern quantum gravity approaches, but mainly in connection with its philosophical implications. Here, one of the crucial questions is, whether form, or, modern, information is an entity per se and what particular consequences this may have.

id: quant-ph/0309184
title: Uncertainty relations on the slit and Fisher information
authors: Z. Hradil, J. Rehacek
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309184
abstract: Diffraction on the slit can be interpreted in accordance with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. This elementary example hints at the importance of the information theory for the quantum physics. The role played by one particularly interesting measure of information -- the Fisher information -- in quantum measurements is further discussed in the context of quantum interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0309185
title: Entanglement swapping secures multiparty quantum communication
authors: Juhui Lee, Soojoon Lee, Jaewan Kim, Sung Dahm Oh
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309185
abstract: Extending the eavesdropping strategy devised by Zhang, Li and Guo [Phys. Rev. A 63, 036301 (2001)], we show that the multiparty quantum communication protocol based on entanglement swapping, which was proposed by Cabello [quant-ph/0009025], is not secure. We modify the protocol so that entanglement swapping can secure multiparty quantum communication, such as multiparty quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing of classical information, and show that the modified protocol is secure against the Zhang-Li-Guo's strategy for eavesdropping as well as the basic intercept-resend attack.

id: quant-ph/0309186
title: On the one-particle reduced density matrices of a pure three-qutrit quantum state
authors: Atsushi Higuchi
comments: 46 pages, REVTeX4, title corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309186
abstract: We present a necessary and sufficient condition for three qutrit density matrices to be the one-particle reduced density matrices of a pure three-qutrit quantum state. The condition consists of seven classes of inequalities satisfied by the eigenvalues of these matrices. One of them is a generalization of a known inequality for the qubit case. Some of these inequalities are proved algebraically whereas the proof of the others uses the fact that a continuous function of the state must have a minimum. Construction of states satisfying these inequalities relies on a representation of the convex set of the allowed set of eigenvalues in terms of corner points. We also present a result for a more general quantum system concerning the nature of the boundary surface of the set of the allowed set of eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0309187
title: Scalable photonic quantum computation through cavity-assisted interaction
authors: L.-M. Duan, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 127902 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309187
abstract: We propose a scheme for scalable photonic quantum computation based on cavity assisted interaction between single-photon pulses. The prototypical quantum controlled phase-flip gate between the single-photon pulses is achieved by successively reflecting them from an optical cavity with a single-trapped atom. Our proposed protocol is shown to be robust to practical nose and experimental imperfections in current cavity-QED setups.

id: quant-ph/0309188
title: Correlation Functions in Spin Chains and Information Theory
authors: B.-Q. Jin, V.E. Korepin
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol 69, issue 6, 062314, June 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309188
abstract: Antiferromagnetic spin chains play an important role in condensed matter physics and statistical mechanics. Recently XXX spin chain was discussed in relation to the information theory. We consider here localizable entanglement, introduced recently by F.Verstraete, M.Popp and J.I.Cirac. That is how much entanglement can be localized on two spins on average by performing local measurements on the other individual spins in a system of many interacting spins. We consider the ground state in antiferromagnetic spin chains and study localizable entanglement between two spins as a function of the distance. We start with isotropic spin chain. Then we study effect of anisotropy and magnetic field. We conclude that anisotropy increases localizable entanglement. We found an explicit dependence of critical exponents in XXZ spin chain on magnetic field. We discovered that the cases of high symmetry corresponds to high sensitivity of magnetic field. We also calculated the concurrence before the measurement to illustrate that the measurment raises the concurrence.

id: quant-ph/0309189
title: Quantum Computational Complexity in the Presence of Closed Timelike Curves
authors: Dave Bacon
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Minor changes and typos fixed. Reference added
journal: Phys.Rev.A70:032309,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309189
abstract: Quantum computation with quantum data that can traverse closed timelike curves represents a new physical model of computation. We argue that a model of quantum computation in the presence of closed timelike curves can be formulated which represents a valid quantification of resources given the ability to construct compact regions of closed timelike curves. The notion of self-consistent evolution for quantum computers whose components follow closed timelike curves, as pointed out by Deutsch [Phys. Rev. D {\bf 44}, 3197 (1991)], implies that the evolution of the chronology respecting components which interact with the closed timelike curve components is nonlinear. We demonstrate that this nonlinearity can be used to efficiently solve computational problems which are generally thought to be intractable. In particular we demonstrate that a quantum computer which has access to closed timelike curve qubits can solve NP-complete problems with only a polynomial number of quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0309190
title: Optical-fiber based measurement of an ultra-small volume high-Q photonic crystal microcavity
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Paul E. Barclay, Matthew Borselli, Oskar Painter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: published in Physical Review B, Rapid Communications, Vol. 70, 081306(R), Aug. 25, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309190
abstract: A two-dimensional photonic crystal semiconductor microcavity with a quality factor Q ~ 40,000 and a modal volume Veff ~ 0.9 cubic wavelengths is demonstrated. A micron-scale optical fiber taper is used as a means to probe both the spectral and spatial properties of the cavity modes, allowing not only measurement of modal loss, but also the ability to ascertain the in-plane localization of the cavity modes. This simultaneous demonstration of high-Q and ultra-small Veff in an optical microcavity is of potential interest in quantum optics, nonlinear optics, and optoelectronics. In particular, the measured Q and Veff values could enable strong coupling to both atomic and quantum dot systems in cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0309191
title: Atom Nanooptics Based on Photon Dots and Photon Holes
authors: V.I. Balykin, V.V. Klimov, V.S. Letokhov
comments: 
journal: JETP Letters, Vol. 78, No.1, 2003, pp.8-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309191
abstract: New types of light fields localized in nanometer-sized regions of space were suggested and analyzed. The possibility of using these nanolocalized fields in atom optics for atom focusing and localization is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309192
title: Dynamical localization, measurements and quantum computing
authors: M. Terraneo, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, research at Quantware MIPS Center this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 037902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309192
abstract: We study numerically the effects of measurements on dynamical localization in the kicked rotator model simulated on a quantum computer. Contrary to the previous studies, which showed that measurements induce a diffusive probability spreading, our results demonstrate that localization can be preserved for repeated single-qubit measurements. We detect a transition from a localized to a delocalized phase, depending on the system parameters and on the choice of the measured qubit.

id: quant-ph/0309193
title: D-outcome measurement for a nonlocality test
authors: W. Son, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 11897-11910.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309193
abstract: For the purpose of the nonlocality test, we propose a general correlation observable of two parties by utilizing local $d$-outcome measurements with SU($d$) transformations and classical communications. Generic symmetries of the SU($d$) transformations and correlation observables are found for the test of nonlocality. It is shown that these symmetries dramatically reduce the number of numerical variables, which is important for numerical analysis of nonlocality. A linear combination of the correlation observables, which is reduced to the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell's inequality for two outcome measurements, is led to the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu (CGLMP) nonlocality test for $d$-outcome measurement. As a system to be tested for its nonlocality, we investigate a continuous-variable (CV) entangled state with $d$ measurement outcomes. It allows the comparison of nonlocality based on different numbers of measurement outcomes on one physical system. In our example of the CV state, we find that a pure entangled state of any degree violates Bell's inequality for $d(\ge 2)$ measurement outcomes when the observables are of SU($d$) transformations.

id: quant-ph/0309194
title: Quantum dynamical entropy and decoherence rate
authors: Robert Alicki, Artur Lozinski, Prot Pakonski, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 5157 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309194
abstract: We investigate quantum dynamical systems defined on a finite dimensional Hilbert space and subjected to an interaction with an environment. The rate of decoherence of initially pure states, measured by the increase of their von Neumann entropy, averaged over an ensemble of random pure states, is proved to be bounded from above by the partial entropy used to define the ALF dynamical entropy. The rate of decoherence induced by the sequence of the von Neumann projectors measurements is shown to be maximal, if the measurements are performed in a randomly chosen basis. The numerically observed linear increase of entropies is attributed to free-independence of the measured observable and the unitary dynamical map.

id: quant-ph/0309195
title: Stationary two-atom entanglement induced by nonclassical two-photon correlations
authors: R. Tanas, Z. Ficek
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309195
abstract: A system of two two-level atoms interacting with a squeezed vacuum field can exhibit stationary entanglement associated with nonclassical two-photon correlations characteristic of the squeezed vacuum field. The amount of entanglement present in the system is quantified by the well known measure of entanglement called concurrence. We find analytical formulas describing the concurrence for two identical and nonidentical atoms and show that it is possible to obtain a large degree of steady-state entanglement in the system. Necessary conditions for the entanglement are nonclassical two-photon correlations and nonzero collective decay. It is shown that nonidentical atoms are a better source of stationary entanglement than identical atoms. We discuss the optimal physical conditions for creating entanglement in the system, in particular, it is shown that there is an optimal and rather small value of the mean photon number required for creating entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0309196
title: Is negative refraction, perfect focusing compatible with quantum mechanics?
authors: P. R. Berman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309196
abstract: In light of experiments in atom optics, the compatibilty of negative refraction, perfect focusing with quantum mechanics is brought into question.

id: quant-ph/0309197
title: Analytical solution of the optimal laser control problem in two-level systems
authors: Martin E. Garcia, Ilia Grigorenko
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309197
abstract: The optimal control of two-level systems by time-dependent laser fields is studied using a variational theory. We obtain, for the first time, general analytical expressions for the optimal pulse shapes leading to global maximization or minimization of different physical quantities. We present solutions which reproduce and improve previous numerical results.

id: quant-ph/0309198
title: Computing a Turing-Incomputable Problem from Quantum Computing
authors: Andrs Sicard, Mario Vlez, Juan Ospina
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309198
abstract: A hypercomputation model named Infinite Square Well Hypercomputation Model (ISWHM) is built from quantum computation. This model is inspired by the model proposed by Tien D. Kieu quant-ph/0203034 and solves an Turing-incomputable problem. For the proposed model and problem, a simulation of its behavior is made. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that ISWHM is a universal quantum computation model.

id: quant-ph/0309199
title: A One-Atom Laser in a Regime of Strong Coupling
authors: J. McKeever, A. Boca, A. D. Boozer, J. R. Buck, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (slightly longer version -- before editorial revisions)
journal: Nature 425, 268-271 (2003), supplementary information available at http://www.nature.com/cgi-taf/DynaPage.taf?file=/nature/journal/v425/n6955/abs /nature01974_fs.html
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309199
abstract: Although conventional lasers operate with a large number of intracavity atoms, the lasing properties of a single atom in a resonant cavity have been theoretically investigated for more than a decade. Here we report the experimental realization of such a one-atom laser operated in a regime of strong coupling. Our experiment exploits recent advances in cavity quantum electrodynamics that allow one atom to be isolated in an optical cavity in a regime for which one photon is sufficient to saturate the atomic transition. In this regime the observed characteristics of the atom-cavity system are qualitatively different from those of the familiar many atom case. Specifically, we present measurements of intracavity photon number versus pump intensity that exhibit "thresholdless" behavior, and infer that the output flux from the cavity mode exceeds that from atomic fluorescence by more than tenfold. Observations of the second-order intensity correlation function demonstrate that our one-atom laser generates manifestly nonclassical light that exhibits both photon antibunching and sub-Poissonian photon statistics.

id: quant-ph/0309200
title: Quantum no-key protocol for direct and secure transmission of quantum and classical messages
authors: Li Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309200
abstract: We present a quantum no-key protocol for direct and secure transmission of quantum and classical messages based on simple Boolean function computation with several quantum gates and Shamir's interactive idea of classical message encryption. This protocol has inherent personal identification and message authentication. It probably is the first quantum protocol that can resist the man-in-the-middle attack by itself.

id: quant-ph/0309201
title: Local adiabatic quantum search with different paths
authors: Recep Eryigit, Yigit Gunduc, Resul Eryigit
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309201
abstract: We report on a detailed analysis of generalization of the local adiabatic search algorithm. Instead of evolving directly from an initial ground state Hamiltonian to a solution Hamiltonian a different evolution path is introduced and is shown that the time required to find an item in a database of size $N$ can be made to be independent of the size of the database by modifying the Hamiltonian used to evolve the system.

id: quant-ph/0309202
title: Noise induced entanglement
authors: J. Chen, X. X. Yi, H. S. Song, L. Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 3, No. 2 (2005) 425-433
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309202
abstract: We discuss the generation of entangled states of two two-level atoms coupled simultaneously with a dissipated atom. The dissipation of the atom is supposed to come from its coupling to a noise with adjustable intensity. We describe how the entanglement between the atoms arise in such a situation, and wether a noise except the white one could help preparation of entanglement. Besides, we confirm that the entanglement is maximized for intermediate values of the noise intensity, while it is a monotonic function of the spontaneous rates. This resembles the phenomenon of stochastic resonance and sheds more light on the idea to exploit noise in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0309203
title: Entangled self-phase locked states of light
authors: H. H. Adamyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 5 figures, 11 pages, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309203
abstract: We explore in detail the possibility of generation of continuous-variable (CV) entangled states of light fields with well-localized phases. We show that such quantum states, called entangled self-phase locked states, can be generated in nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator (NOPO) based on a type-II phase-matched down-conversion combined with polarization mixer in a cavity. A quantum theory of this device, recently realized in the experiment, is developed for both sub-threshold and above-threshold operational regimes. We show that the system providing relative phase coherence between two generated modes also exhibits different types of quantum correlations between photon numbers and phases of these modes. We quantify the entanglement as two-mode squeezing and show that CV entanglement is realized for both unitary, non-dissipative dynamics and for dissipative NOPO in the entire range of pump field intensities.

id: quant-ph/0309204
title: Fluctuations of Quantum Random Walks on Circles
authors: Norio Inui, Yoshinao Konishi, Norio Konno, Takahiro Soshi
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309204
abstract: Temporal fluctuations in the Hadamard walk on circles are studied. A temporal standard deviation of probability that a quantum random walker is positive at a given site is introduced to manifest striking differences between quantum and classical random walks. An analytical expression of the temporal standard deviation on a circle with odd sites is shown and its asymptotic behavior is considered for large system size. In contrast with classical random walks, the temporal fluctuation of quantum random walks depends on the position and initial conditions, since temporal standard deviation of the classical case is zero for any site. It indicates that the temporal fluctuation of the Hadamard walk can be controlled.

id: quant-ph/0309205
title: Stochastic Schrodinger equations
authors: Luc Bouten, Madalin Guta, Hans Maassen
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 3189-3209
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309205
abstract: A derivation of stochastic Schrodinger equations is given using quantum filtering theory. We study an open system in contact with its environment, the electromagnetic field. Continuous observation of the field yields information on the system: it is possible to keep track in real time of the best estimate of the system's quantum state given the observations made. This estimate satisfies a stochastic Schrodinger equation, which can be derived from the quantum stochastic differential equation for the interaction picture evolution of system and field together. Throughout the paper we focus on the basic example of resonance fluorescence.

id: quant-ph/0309206
title: Number of quantal resonances
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Sudhir R. Jain
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309206
abstract: Employing the concept of time-delay, a relation is found which counts the number of quantal resonances supported by a potential. Several simple and advanced illustrations include a treatment of square-well, Dirac delta barrier, an interesting physical situation from neutron reflectometry, and the Delta resonance appearing in the scattering of \pi meson from proton.

id: quant-ph/0309207
title: Continuous Multipartite Entangled State in Wigner Representation and the Violation of Zukowski-Brukner Inequality
authors: Chunfeng Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh, Kang Xue
comments: 5 pages, rewritten version, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022110 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309207
abstract: We construct an explicit Wigner function for N-mode squeezed state. Based on a previous observation that the Wigner function describes correlations in the joint measurement of the phase-space displaced parity operator, we investigate the non-locality of multipartite entangled state by the violation of Zukowski-Brukner N-qubit Bell inequality. We find that quantum predictions for such squeezed state violate these inequalities by an amount that grows with the number N.

id: quant-ph/0309208
title: Phase-control of directed diffusion in a symmetric optical lattice
authors: Michele Schiavoni, Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, Ferruccio Renzoni, Gilbert Grynberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 094101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309208
abstract: We demonstrate the phenomenon of directed diffusion in a symmetric periodic potential. This has been realized with cold atoms in a one-dimensional dissipative optical lattice. The stochastic process of optical pumping leads to a diffusive dynamics of the atoms through the periodic structure, while a zero-mean force which breaks the temporal symmetry of the system is applied by phase-modulating one of the lattice beams. The atoms are set into directed motion as a result of the breaking of the temporal symmetry of the system.

id: quant-ph/0309209
title: Damping rates of the atomic velocity in Sisyphus cooling
authors: Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, Michele Schiavoni, Francois-Regis Carminati, Ferruccio Renzoni, Gilbert Grynberg
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 20 (2003) 925
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309209
abstract: We present a theoretical and experimental study of the damping process of the atomic velocity in Sisyphus cooling. The relaxation rates of the atomic kinetic temperature are determined for a 3D lin$\perp$lin optical lattice. We find that the damping rates of the atomic temperature depend linearly on the optical pumping rate, for a given depth of the potential wells. This is at variance with the behavior of the friction coefficient as calculated from the spatial diffusion coefficients within a model of Brownian motion. The origin of this different behavior is identified by distinguishing the role of the trapped and traveling atoms.

id: quant-ph/0309210
title: Synchronization of Hamiltonian motion and dissipative effects in optical lattices: Evidence for a stochastic resonance
authors: Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, Gilbert Grynberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 023404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309210
abstract: We theoretically study the influence of the noise strength on the excitation of the Brillouin propagation modes in a dissipative optical lattice. We show that the excitation has a resonant behavior for a specific amount of noise corresponding to the precise synchronization of the Hamiltonian motion on the optical potential surfaces and the dissipative effects associated with optical pumping in the lattice. This corresponds to the phenomenon of stochastic resonance. Our results are obtained by numerical simulations and correspond to the analysis of microscopic quantities (atomic spatial distributions) as well as macroscopic quantities (enhancement of spatial diffusion and pump-probe spectra). We also present a simple analytical model in excellent agreement with the simulations.

id: quant-ph/0309211
title: Mixing Property of Quantum Relative Entropy
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 4 pages, Latex2e and Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309211
abstract: An analogue of the mixing property of quantum entropy is derived for quantum relative entropy.It is applied to the final state of ideal measurement and to the spectral form of the second density operator. Three cases of states on a directed straight line of relative entropy are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0309212
title: Exact interferometers for the concurrence and residual 3-tangle
authors: Hilary A. Carteret
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 6 figures in encapsulated postscript. Feedback welcome. v3: notation clarified, new circuit added with modulation proportional to the modulus squared of the 3-tangle. v4: references updated, typo fixed. v5: title changed, subtle error in circuits corrected, visibilities improved, references updated. v6: minor changes, missing reference to quant-ph/9503016 added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309212
abstract: In this paper we describe a set of circuits that can measure the concurrence of a two qubit density matrix without requiring the deliberate addition of noise. We then extend these methods to obtain a circuit to measure one type of three qubit entanglement for pure states, namely the 3-tangle.

id: quant-ph/0309213
title: Symmetrized Schr?dinger Equation and General Complex Solution
authors: Yihuan Wei
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309213
abstract: We suggest the symmetrized Schr\"{o}dinger equation and propose a general complex solution which is characterized by the imaginary units $i$ and $\epsilon$. This symmetrized Schr\"{o}dinger equation appears some interesting features.

id: quant-ph/0309214
title: Chaos and Quantum-Classical Correspondence via Phase Space Distribution Functions
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062103 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309214
abstract: Quantum-classical correspondence in conservative chaotic Hamiltonian systems is examined using a uniform structure measure for quantal and classical phase space distribution functions. The similarities and differences between quantum and classical time-evolving distribution functions are exposed by both analytical and numerical means. The quantum-classical correspondence of low-order statistical moments is also studied. The results shed considerable light on quantum-classical correspondence.

id: quant-ph/0309215
title: Control of Dynamical Localization
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Hans Jakob Worner, Paul Brumer
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 68, 056202 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309215
abstract: Control over the quantum dynamics of chaotic kicked rotor systems is demonstrated. Specifically, control over a number of quantum coherent phenomena is achieved by a simple modification of the kicking field. These include the enhancement of the dynamical localization length, the introduction of classical anomalous diffusion assisted control for systems far from the semiclassical regime, and the observation of a variety of strongly nonexponential lineshapes for dynamical localization. The results provide excellent examples of controlled quantum dynamics in a system that is classically chaotic and offer new opportunities to explore quantum fluctuations and correlations in quantum chaos.

id: quant-ph/0309216
title: Noiseless Quantum Circuits for the Peres Separability Criterion
authors: Hilary A. Carteret
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 7 figures encapsulated postscript. v5: title changed slightly, more-or-less equivalent to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 94(4), 040502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309216
abstract: In this Letter we give a method for constructing sets of simple circuits that can determine the spectrum of a partially transposed density matrix, without requiring either a tomographically complete POVM or the addition of noise to make the spectrum non-negative. These circuits depend only on the dimension of the Hilbert space and are otherwise independent of the state.

id: quant-ph/0309217
title: Correlations of observables in chaotic states of macroscopic quantum systems
authors: Ayumu Sugita, Akira Shimizu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 74 (2005) 1883
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309217
abstract: We study correlations of observables in energy eigenstates of chaotic systems of a large size $N$. We show that the bipartite entanglement of two subsystems is quite strong, whereas macroscopic entanglement of the total system is absent. It is also found that correlations, either quantum or classical, among less than $N/2$ points are quite small. These results imply that chaotic states are stable. Invariance of these properties under local operations is also shown.

id: quant-ph/0309218
title: Long distance quantum teleportation in a quantum relay configuration
authors: H. de Riedmatten, I. Marcikic, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden, D. Collins, N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 047904 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309218
abstract: A long distance quantum teleportation experiment with a fiber-delayed Bell State Measurement (BSM) is reported. The source creating the qubits to be teleported and the source creating the necessary entangled state are connected to the beam splitter realizing the BSM by two 2 km long optical fibers. In addition, the teleported qubits are analyzed after 2,2 km of optical fiber, in another lab separated by 55 m. Time bin qubits carried by photons at 1310 nm are teleported onto photons at 1550 nm. The fidelity is of 77%, above the maximal value obtainable without entanglement. This is the first realization of an elementary quantum relay over significant distances, which will allow an increase in the range of quantum communication and quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0309219
title: Grandma's local realistic theory for the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiment
authors: Boon Leong Lan
comments: minor changes for clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309219
abstract: A local realistic theory is presented for Mermin's special case of the EPRB experiment. The theory, which is readily extended to the general EPRB experiment, reproduces all the predictions of quantum theory. It also reveals that Bell, and also Hess and Philipp, had made an error in the mathematical formulation of Einstein's locality or no action at a distance principle.

id: quant-ph/0309220
title: Robust Polynomials and Quantum Algorithms
authors: Harry Buhrman, Ilan Newman, Hein Roehrig, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309220
abstract: We define and study the complexity of robust polynomials for Boolean functions and the related fault-tolerant quantum decision trees, where input bits are perturbed by noise. We compare several different possible definitions. Our main results are * For every n-bit Boolean function f there is an n-variate polynomial p of degree O(n) that robustly approximates it, in the sense that p(x) remains close to f(x) if we slightly vary each of the n inputs of the polynomial. * There is an O(n)-query quantum algorithm that robustly recovers n noisy input bits. Hence every n-bit function can be quantum computed with O(n) queries in the presence of noise. This contrasts with the classical model of Feige et al., where functions such as parity need Theta(n*log n) queries. We give several extensions and applications of these results.

id: quant-ph/0309221
title: A Semantic Approach to the Completeness Problem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 19 pages. Further revision. Proof of Theorem 3.2.1 simplified, Section 3.5 amended, minor changes in several sections. Accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 34, No. 8, August 2004 (1249-1266)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309221
abstract: The old Bohr-Einstein debate about the completeness of quantum mechanics (QM) was held on an ontological ground. The completeness problem becomes more tractable, however, if it is preliminarily discussed from a semantic viewpoint. Indeed every physical theory adopts, explicitly or not, a truth theory for its observative language, in terms of which the notions of semantic objectivity and semantic completeness of the physical theory can be introduced and inquired. In particular, standard QM adopts a verificationist theory of truth that implies its semantic nonobjectivity; moreover, we show in this paper that standard QM is semantically complete, which matches Bohr's thesis. On the other hand, one of the authors has provided a Semantic Realism (or SR) interpretation of QM that adopts a Tarskian theory of truth as correspondence for the observative language of QM (which was previously mantained to be impossible); according to this interpretation QM is semantically objective, yet incomplete, which matches EPR's thesis. Thus, standard QM and the SR interpretation of QM come to opposite conclusions. These can be reconciled within an integrationist perspective that interpretes non-Tarskian theories of truth as theories of metalinguistic concepts different from truth.

id: quant-ph/0309222
title: Spin transitions in time-dependent regular and random magnetic fields
authors: V.L. Pokrovsky, N.A. Sinitsyn
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 104414 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0309222
abstract: We study the transition between Zeeman levels of an arbitrary spin placed into a regular time-dependent field and a random field with the Gaussian distribution. One component of the regular field changes its sign at some moment of time, whereas another component does not change substantially. The noise is assumed to be fast. In this assumption we find analytically the ensemble average of the spin density matrix and its fluctuations.

id: astro-ph/0309144
title: Synchrotron Radiation and Quantum Gravity
authors: John Ellis, N.E. Mavromatos, D.V. Nanopoulos, A.S. Sakharov
comments: 4 pages. Comment on Jacobson et al astro-ph/0212190. Presentation revised for brief communication to Nature with extended bibliography
journal: Nature 428:386,2004
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0309144
abstract: Photons may evade a synchrotron radiation constraint on quantum gravity by violating the equivalence principle.

id: cond-mat/0309023
title: Measurement efficiency and n-shot read out of spin qubits
authors: Hans-Andreas Engel, Vitaly Golovach, Daniel Loss, L.M.K. Vandersypen, J.M. Elzerman, R. Hanson, L.P. Kouwenhoven
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 106804 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309023
abstract: We consider electron spin qubits in quantum dots and define a measurement efficiency e to characterize reliable measurements via n-shot read outs. We propose various implementations based on a double dot and quantum point contact (QPC) and show that the associated efficiencies e vary between 50% and 100%, allowing single-shot read out in the latter case. We model the read out microscopically and derive its time dynamics in terms of a generalized master equation, calculate the QPC current and show that it allows spin read out under realistic conditions.

id: cond-mat/0309060
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation Temperature of Homogenous Weakly Interacting Bose Gas in Variational Perturbation Theory Through Seven Loops
authors: Boris Kastening
comments: 8 pages; typos and errors of presentation fixed; beautifications; results unchanged
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 043613
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309060
abstract: The shift of the Bose-Einstein condensation temperature for a homogenous weakly interacting Bose gas in leading order in the scattering length `a' is computed for given particle density `n.' Variational perturbation theory is used to resum the corresponding perturbative series for Delta<phi^2>/Nu in a classical three-dimensional scalar field theory with coupling `u' and where the physical case of N=2 field components is generalized to arbitrary N. Our results for N=1,2,4 are in agreement with recent Monte-Carlo simulations; for N=2, we obtain Delta T_c/T_c = 1.27 +/- 0.11 a n^(1/3). We use seven-loop perturbative coefficients, extending earlier work by one loop order.

id: cond-mat/0309147
title: Acceptor-based silicon quantum computing
authors: B. Golding, M.I. Dykman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309147
abstract: A solid-state quantum computer with dipolar coupling between qubits is proposed. The qubits are formed by the low-lying states of an isolated acceptor in silicon. The system has the scalability inherent to spin-based solid state systems, but the spatial separation between the qubits is an order of magnitude larger. Despite strong dipolar inter-qubit coupling, the decoherence rate, as measured by electric dipolar echoes at an energy splitting of 1.5 GHz, is less than 1 kHz at low temperatures. For inter-acceptor distances of 100 nm and for modest microwave field amplitudes (50 V/cm) the clock frequency of the quantum computer is 0.1 GHz, which yields a quality factor of 105. This paper describes ideas for detection and operation of the quantum computer, and examines limitations imposed by noise sources.

id: cond-mat/0309188
title: The quantum measurement process: an exactly solvable model
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, R. Balian, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 4 pages, presented at the conference "Anomalies and Strange Behavior in Physics: Challenging the conventional", Napels, April, 2003. v2: Elaboration on the statistical interpretation of QM
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309188
abstract: An exactly solvable model for a quantum measurement is discussed, that integrates quantum measurements with classical measurements. The z-component of a spin-1/2 test spin is measured with an apparatus, that itself consists of magnet of N spin-1/2 particles, coupled to a bath. The initial state of the magnet is a metastable paramagnet, while the bath starts in a thermal, gibbsian state. Conditions are such that the act of measurement drives the magnet in the up or down ferromagnetic state, according to the sign of s_z of the test spin. The quantum measurement goes in two steps. On a timescale 1/\sqrt{N} the collapse takes place due to a unitary evolution of test spin and apparatus spins; on a larger but still short timescale this collapse is made definite by the bath. Then the system is in a `classical' state, having a diagonal density matrix. The registration of that state is basically a classical process, that can already be understood from classical statistical mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0309302
title: AC field induced quantum rectification effect in tunnel junctions
authors: M. V. Fistul, A. E. Miroshnichenko, S. Flach
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309302
abstract: We study the appearance of directed current in tunnel junctions, quantum ratchet effect, in the presence of an external ac field f(t). The current is established in a one-dimensional discrete inhomogeneous "tight-binding model". By making use of a symmetry analysis we predict the right choice of f(t) and obtain the directed current as a difference between electron transmission coefficients in opposite directions, $\Delta T = T^{LR}-T^{RL}$. Numerical simulations confirm the predictions of the symmetry analysis and moreover, show that the directed current can be drastically increased by a proper choice of frequency and amplitudes of the ac field f(t).

id: cond-mat/0309417
title: Electron Exchange Coupling for Single Donor Solid-State Qubits
authors: C.J. Wellard, L.C.L. Hollenberg, F. Parisoli, L. Kettle, H.-S. Goan, J.A. McIntosh, D.N. Jamieson
comments: 10 Pages, 8 Figures. To appear in Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309417
abstract: Inter-valley interference between degenerate conduction band minima has been shown to lead to oscillations in the exchange energy between neighbouring phosphorus donor electron states in silicon \cite{Koiller02,Koiller02A}. These same effects lead to an extreme sensitivity of the exchange energy on the relative orientation of the donor atoms, an issue of crucial importance in the construction silicon-based spin quantum computers. In this article we calculate the donor electron exchange coupling as a function of donor position incorporating the full Bloch structure of the Kohn-Luttinger electron wavefunctions. It is found that due to the rapidly oscillating nature of the terms they produce, the periodic part of the Bloch functions can be safely ignored in the Heitler-London integrals as was done by Koiller et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88,027903(2002),Phys. Rev. B. 66,115201(2002)], significantly reducing the complexity of calculations. We address issues of fabrication and calculate the expected exchange coupling between neighbouring donors that have been implanted into the silicon substrate using an 15keV ion beam in the so-called 'top down' fabrication scheme for a Kane solid-state quantum computer. In addition we calculate the exchange coupling as a function of the voltage bias on control gates used to manipulate the electron wavefunctions and implement quantum logic operations in the Kane proposal, and find that these gate biases can be used to both increase and decrease the magnitude of the exchange coupling between neighbouring donor electrons. The zero-bias results reconfirm those previously obtained by Koiller.

id: cond-mat/0309421
title: Formation of shock waves in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Bogdan Damski
comments: 8 pages & 6 figures, minor changes, more references, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 043610
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309421
abstract: We consider propagation of density wave packets in a Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that the shape of initially broad, laser-induced, density perturbation changes in the course of free time evolution so that a shock wave front finally forms. Our results are well beyond predictions of commonly used zero-amplitude approach, so they can be useful in extraction of a speed of sound from experimental data. We discuss a simple experimental setup for shock propagation and point out possible limitations of the mean-field approach for description of shock phenomena in a BEC.

id: cond-mat/0309491
title: Fast two-bit operations in inductively coupled flux qubits
authors: J. Q. You, Y. Nakamura, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 024532 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309491
abstract: A central problem for implementing efficient quantum computing is how to realize fast operations (both one- and two-bit ones). However, this is difficult to achieve for a collection of qubits, especially for those separated far away, because the interbit coupling is usually much weaker than the intrabit coupling. Here we present an experimentally feasible method to effectively couple two flux qubits via a common inductance and treat both single and coupled flux qubits with more realistic models which include the loop inductance. The main advantage of our proposal is that a strong interbit coupling can be achieved using a small inductance, so that two-bit operations as fast as one-bit ones can be easily realized. We also show the flux dependence of the transitions between states for the coupled flux qubits.

id: cond-mat/0309514
title: Quantum dynamics with stochastic gauge simulations
authors: P. D. Drummond, P. Deuar
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Opt.B Quant.Semiclass.Opt. 5 (2003) 281-289
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309514
abstract: The general idea of a stochastic gauge representation is introduced and compared with more traditional phase-space expansions, like the Wigner expansion. Stochastic gauges can be used to obtain an infinite class of positive-definite stochastic time-evolution equations, equivalent to master equations, for many systems including quantum time-evolution. The method is illustrated with a variety of simple examples ranging from astrophysical molecular hydrogen production, through to the topical problem of Bose-Einstein condensation in an optical trap and the resulting quantum dynamics.

id: cond-mat/0309516
title: Superconductivity in the Model with non Cooper Pairs
authors: I.M.Yurin, V.B.Kalinin
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309516
abstract: On a basis of earlier substantiated expression for effective potential of electron-electron attraction in metals the assumption of an opportunity of formation of classically bound pairs is put forward. It was shown that in distinction from the Cooper pair, the energy of the electron pair in this approach is negative in the centrum of mass of the pair. This fact changes the pattern of the superconductivity phenomenon in the proposed model. First, the gap in the one-particle spectrum appears due to the effect of a "mean field" on the energy of electron state from the side of occupied states, the nearest neighbors over the momenta grid. Second, the condensate is formed by electron states with energies below that of the gap edge. No Bose condensation does occur in the system proceeding from the proposed model. In quasi-classical approximation Londons' hypothesis is substantiated.

id: cond-mat/0309540
title: Orbital entanglement and violation of Bell inequalities in the presence of dephasing
authors: P. Samuelsson, E. Sukhorukov, M. Buttiker
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. To appear in a special issue on "Quantum Computation at the Atomic Scale" in Turkish Journal of Physics
journal: Turk. J. Phys. 27, 481 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309540
abstract: We discuss orbital entanglement in mesoscopic conductors, focusing on the effect of dephasing. The entanglement is detected via violation of a Bell Inequality formulated in terms of zero-frequency current correlations. Following closely the recent work by Samuelsson, Sukhorukov and Buttiker, we investigate how the dephasing affects the possibility to violate the Bell Inequality and how system parameters can be adjusted for optimal violation.

id: cond-mat/0309548
title: Density of states for almost diagonal random matrices
authors: Oleg Yevtushenko, Vladimir E. Kravtsov
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys.Rev. E69 (2004) 026104
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309548
abstract: We study the density of states (DOS) for disordered systems whose spectral statistics can be described by a Gaussian ensemble of almost diagonal Hermitian random matrices. The matrices have independent random entries $ H_{i \geq j} $ with small off-diagonal elements: $ <|H_{i \neq j}|^{2} > \ll <|H_{ii}|^{2} > \sim 1 $. Using the recently suggested method of a {\it virial expansion in the number of interacting energy levels} (Journ.Phys.A {\bf 36}, 8265), we calculate the leading correction to the Poissonian DOS in the cases of the Gaussian Orthogonal and Unitary Ensembles. We apply the general formula to the critical power-law banded random matrices and the unitary Moshe-Neuberger-Shapiro model and compare DOS of these models.

id: cond-mat/0309600
title: Competition between spin and charge polarized states in nanographene ribbons with zigzag edges
authors: Atsushi Yamashiro, Yukihiro Shimoi, Kikuo Harigaya, Katsunori Wakabayashi
comments: 4 pages; 4 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B; related Web site: this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol. 68, 193410 (2003)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309600
abstract: Effects of the nearest neighbor Coulomb interaction on nanographene ribbons with zigzag edges are investigated using the extended Hubbard model within the unrestricted Hartree-Fock approximation. The nearest Coulomb interaction stabilizes a novel electronic state with the opposite electric charges separated and localized along both edges, resulting in a finite electric dipole moment pointing from one edge to the other. This charge-polarized state competes with the peculiar spin-polarized state caused by the on-site Coulomb interaction and is stabilized by an external electric field.

id: cond-mat/0309610
title: Continuous measurement of a charge qubit with a point contact detector at arbitrary bias: the role of inelastic tunnelling
authors: T. M. Stace, S. D. Barrett
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRB (sequel to PRL 92 136802, 2004 this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309610
abstract: We study the dynamics of a charge qubit, consisting of a single electron in a double well potential, coupled to a point-contact (PC) electrometer using the quantum trajectories formalism. In contrast with previous work, our analysis is valid for arbitrary source-drain bias across the PC, but is restricted to the sub-Zeno limit. We find that the dynamics is strongly affected by inelastic tunnelling processes in the PC. These processes reduce the efficiency of the PC as a qubit readout device, and induce relaxation even when the source-drain bias is zero. We show that the sub-Zeno dynamics are divided into two regimes: low- and high-bias in which the PC current and current power spectra show markedly different behaviour. To further illustrate the division between the regimes and the inefficiency of the detector, we present simulated quantum trajectories of the conditional qubit and detector dynamics. We also describe how single shot measurements in an arbitrary basis may be achieved in the sub-Zeno regime.

id: cond-mat/0309636
title: Novel Electronic States in Graphene Ribbons -Competing Spin and Charge Orders-
authors: Atsushi Yamashiro, Yukihiro Shimoi, Kikuo Harigaya, Katsunori Wakabayashi
comments: 4 pages; 5 figures; related Web site: this http URL
journal: Physica E vol. 22, pp. 688-691(2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309636
abstract: In a nanographene ring with zigzag edges, the spin-polarized state and the charge-polarized state are stabilized by the on-site and the nearest neighbor Coulomb repulsions, U and V, respectively, within the extended Hubbard model under the mean field approximation. In a Moebius strip of the nanographene with a zigzag edge, U stabilizes two magnetic states, the domain wall state and the helical state. Both states have ferrimagnetic spins localized along the zigzag edge while the former connects the opposite ferrimagnetic orders resulting in a magnetic frustration forced by the topology and the latter rotates the ferrimagnetic spins uniformly to circumvent the frustration. The helical state is lower in energy than the domain wall state. On the other hand, V stabilizes another domain wall state connecting the opposite charge orders.

id: cond-mat/0309685
title: Additivity of decoherence measures for multiqubit quantum systems
authors: Leonid Fedichkin, Arkady Fedorov, Vladimir Privman
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 328, 87-93 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0309685
abstract: We introduce new measures of decoherence appropriate for evaluation of quantum computing designs. Environment-induced deviation of a quantum system's evolution from controlled dynamics is quantified by a single numerical measure. This measure is defined as a maximal norm of the density matrix deviation. We establish the property of additivity: in the regime of the onset of decoherence, the sum of the individual qubit error measures provides an estimate of the error for a several-qubit system. This property is illustrated by exact calculations for a spin-boson model.

id: cs/0309033
title: Lower bounds for predecessor searching in the cell probe model
authors: Pranab Sen, S. Venkatesh
comments: Journal version of a paper at ICALP 2001 (quant-ph/0104100) and a paper at CCC 2003. 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0309033
abstract: We consider a fundamental problem in data structures, static predecessor searching: Given a subset S of size n from the universe [m], store S so that queries of the form "What is the predecessor of x in S?" can be answered efficiently. We study this problem in the cell probe model introduced by Yao. Recently, Beame and Fich obtained optimal bounds on the number of probes needed by any deterministic query scheme if the associated storage scheme uses only n^{O(1)} cells of word size (\log m)^{O(1)} bits. We give a new lower bound proof for this problem that matches the bounds of Beame and Fich. Our lower bound proof has the following advantages: it works for randomised query schemes too, while Beame and Fich's proof works for deterministic query schemes only. It also extends to `quantum address-only' query schemes that we define in this paper, and is simpler than Beame and Fich's proof. We prove our lower bound using the round elimination approach of Miltersen, Nisan, Safra and Wigderson. Using tools from information theory, we prove a strong round elimination lemma for communication complexity that enables us to obtain a tight lower bound for the predecessor problem. Our strong round elimination lemma also extends to quantum communication complexity. We also use our round elimination lemma to obtain a rounds versus communication tradeoff for the `greater-than' problem, improving on the tradeoff in Miltersen et al. We believe that our round elimination lemma is of independent interest and should have other applications.

id: hep-ph/0309139
title: The Effects of Quantum Entropy on the Bag Constant
authors: David E. Miller, Abdel-Nasser Tawfik
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures (two parts each)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0309139
abstract: The effects of quantum entropy on the bag constant are studied at low temperatures and small chemical potentials. The inclusion of the quantum entropy of the quarks in the equation of state provides the hadronic bag with an additional heat which causes a decrease in the effective latent heat inside the bag. We have considered two types of baryonic bags, $\Delta$ and $\Omega^-$. In both cases we have found that the bag constant without the quantum entropy almost does not change with the temperature and the quark chemical potential. The contribution from the quantum entropy to the equation of state clearly decreases the value of the bag constant.

id: hep-ph/0309257
title: Neutral kaons in random media
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, R. Romano
comments: 21 pages, plain-TeX, corrected typo
journal: Phys.Rev. D68 (2003) 094007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0309257
abstract: The generalized dynamics describing the propagation of neutral kaons in randomly fluctuating media is derived and analyzed. It takes into account possible matter-induced effects leading to loss of phase coherence and dissipation. The study of selected neutral kaon observables indicates that these non-standard effects are amenable to a direct experimental analysis.

id: hep-th/0309022
title: New Optimization Methods for Converging Perturbative Series with a Field Cutoff
authors: B. Kessler, L. Li, Y. Meurice
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures, uses revtex; minor typos corrected, refs. added
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 045014
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309022
abstract: We take advantage of the fact that in lambda phi ^4 problems a large field cutoff phi_max makes perturbative series converge toward values exponentially close to the exact values, to make optimal choices of phi_max. For perturbative series terminated at even order, it is in principle possible to adjust phi_max in order to obtain the exact result. For perturbative series terminated at odd order, the error can only be minimized. It is however possible to introduce a mass shift in order to obtain the exact result. We discuss weak and strong coupling methods to determine the unknown parameters. The numerical calculations in this article have been performed with a simple integral with one variable. We give arguments indicating that the qualitative features observed should extend to quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. We found that optimization at even order is more efficient that at odd order. We compare our methods with the linear delta-expansion (LDE) (combined with the principle of minimal sensitivity) which provides an upper envelope of for the accuracy curves of various Pade and Pade-Borel approximants. Our optimization method performs better than the LDE at strong and intermediate coupling, but not at weak coupling where it appears less robust and subject to further improvements. We also show that it is possible to fix the arbitrary parameter appearing in the LDE using the strong coupling expansion, in order to get accuracies comparable to ours.

id: hep-th/0309077
title: Affine Toda-Sutherland Systems
authors: Avinash Khare, I. Loris, R. Sasaki
comments: LaTeX2e 22 pages with amsfonts and graphicx, 5 eps figures
journal: J.Phys.A37:1665-1680,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309077
abstract: A cross between two well-known integrable multi-particle dynamics, an affine Toda molecule and a Sutherland system, is introduced for any affine root system. Though it is not completely integrable but partially integrable, or quasi exactly solvable, it inherits many remarkable properties from the parents. The equilibrium position is algebraic, i.e. proportional to the Weyl vector. The frequencies of small oscillations near equilibrium are proportional to the affine Toda masses, which are essential ingredients of the exact factorisable S-matrices of affine Toda field theories. Some lower lying frequencies are integer times a coupling constant for which the corresponding exact quantum eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are obtained. An affine Toda-Calogero system, with a corresponding rational potential, is also discussed.

id: hep-th/0309091
title: Quantization on a torus without position operators
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX2e, the title is changed, minor corrections are made, references are added. To be published in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A18 (2003) 2755-2765
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309091
abstract: We formulate quantum mechanics in the two-dimensional torus without using position operators. We define an algebra with only momentum operators and shift operators and construct irreducible representation of the algebra. We show that it realizes quantum mechanics of a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field. We prove that any irreducible representation of the algebra is unitary equivalent to each other. This work provides a firm foundation for the noncommutative torus theory.

id: hep-th/0309109
title: Perturbations of integrable systems and Dyson-Mehta integrals
authors: Alexander Turbiner
comments: 17pp, LaTeX, to be published in Proceedings of the Workshop "Superintegrable systems in classical and quantum mechanics", Montreal, Canada, September, 2002; CRM Press
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309109
abstract: We show that the existence of algebraic forms of quantum, exactly-solvable, completely-integrable $A-B-C-D$ and $G_2, F_4, E_{6,7,8}$ Olshanetsky-Perelomov Hamiltonians allow to develop the {\it algebraic} perturbation theory, where corrections are computed by pure linear algebra means. A Lie-algebraic classification of such perturbations is given. In particular, this scheme admits an explicit study of anharmonic many-body problems. The approach also allows to calculate the ratios of a certain generalized Dyson-Mehta integrals algebraically, which are interested by themselves.

id: hep-th/0309130
title: The Dirichlet Casimir Problem
authors: N.Graham, R.L.Jaffe, V.Khemani, M.Quandt, O. Schroeder, H.Weigel
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B677:379-404,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309130
abstract: Casimir forces are conventionally computed by analyzing the effects of boundary conditions on a fluctuating quantum field. Although this analysis provides a clean and calculationally tractable idealization, it does not always accurately capture the characteristics of real materials, which cannot constrain the modes of the fluctuating field at all energies. We study the vacuum polarization energy of renormalizable, continuum quantum field theory in the presence of a background field, designed to impose a Dirichlet boundary condition in a particular limit. We show that in two and three space dimensions, as a background field becomes concentrated on the surface on which the Dirichlet boundary condition would eventually hold, the Casimir energy diverges. This result implies that the energy depends in detail on the properties of the material, which are not captured by the idealized boundary conditions. This divergence does not affect the force between rigid bodies, but it does invalidate calculations of Casimir stresses based on idealized boundary conditions.

id: hep-th/0309196
title: 3D Oscillator and Coulomb Systems reduced from Kahler spaces
authors: Armen Nersessian, Armen Yeranyan
comments: To the memory of Professor Valery Ter-Antonyan, 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.A37:2791-2802,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309196
abstract: We define the oscillator and Coulomb systems on four-dimensional spaces with U(2)-invariant Kahler metric and perform their Hamiltonian reduction to the three-dimensional oscillator and Coulomb systems specified by the presence of Dirac monopoles. We find the Kahler spaces with conic singularity, where the oscillator and Coulomb systems on three-dimensional sphere and two-sheet hyperboloid are originated. Then we construct the superintegrable oscillator system on three-dimensional sphere and hyperboloid, coupled to monopole, and find their four-dimensional origins. In the latter case the metric of configuration space is non-Kahler one. Finally, we extend these results to the family of Kahler spaces with conic singularities.

id: hep-th/0309239
title: A General Theory of Quantum Relativity
authors: Djordje Minic, Chia-Hsiung Tze
comments: 13 pages, LaTex; An expanded version, including many clarifications, a new title and abstract as well as new references, to appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys.Lett.B581:111-118,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0309239
abstract: The geometric form of standard quantum mechanics is compatible with the two postulates: 1) The laws of physics are invariant under the choice of experimental setup and 2) Every quantum observation or event is intrinsically statistical. These postulates remain compatible within a background independent extension of quantum theory with a local intrinsic time implying the relativity of the concept of a quantum event. In this extension the space of quantum events becomes dynamical and only individual quantum events make sense observationally. At the core of such a general theory of quantum relativity is the three-way interplay between the symplectic form, the dynamical metric and non-integrable almost complex structure of the space of quantum events. Such a formulation provides a missing conceptual ingredient in the search for a background independent quantum theory of gravity and matter. The crucial new technical element in our scheme derives from a set of recent mathematical results on certain infinite dimensional almost Kahler manifolds which replace the complex projective spaces of standard quantum mechanics.

id: math-ph/0309022
title: The hyperbolic, the arithmetic and the quantum phase
authors: Michel Planat, Haret Rosu
comments: accepted for publication for the special issue of J. Opt. B, in relation to ICSSUR, Puebla (Mexico): Foundations of Quantum Optics, to be published in June 2004
journal: Journal of Optics B 6 (2004) S583
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0309022
abstract: We develop a new approach of the quantum phase in an Hilbert space of finite dimension which is based on the relation between the physical concept of phase locking and mathematical concepts such as cyclotomy and the Ramanujan sums. As a result, phase variability looks quite similar to its classical counterpart, having peaks at dimensions equal to a power of a prime number. Squeezing of the phase noise is allowed for specific quantum states. The concept of phase entanglement for Kloosterman pairs of phase-locked states is introduced.

id: math-ph/0309023
title: An Algebraic Characterization of Vacuum States in Minkowski Space. III. Reflection Maps
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 20 pages; change of title, reference added; version as to appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun.Math.Phys. 246 (2004) 625-641
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0309023
abstract: Employing the algebraic framework of local quantum physics, vacuum states in Minkowski space are distinguished by a property of geometric modular action. This property allows one to construct from any locally generated net of observables and corresponding state a continuous unitary representation of the proper Poincare group which acts covariantly on the net and leaves the state invariant. The present results and methods substantially improve upon previous work. In particular, the continuity properties of the representation are shown to be a consequence of the net structure, and surmised cohomological problems in the construction of the representation are resolved by demonstrating that, for the Poincare group, continuous reflection maps are restrictions of continuous homomorphisms.

id: math/0309257
title: Sequential isomorphisms between the sets of von Neumann algebra effects
authors: Lajos Molnar
comments: To appear in Acta Sci. Math. (Szeged)
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0309257
abstract: In this paper we describe the structure of all sequential isomorphisms between the sets of von Neumann algebra effects. It turns out that if the underlying algebras have no commutative direct summands, then every sequential isomorphism between the sets of their effects extends to the direct sum of a *-isomorphism and a *-antiisomorphism between the underlying von Neumann algebras.

id: math/0309390
title: Quantum Channels, Wavelets, Dilations and Representations of $O_n$
authors: David W. Kribs
comments: 15 pages, preprint version
journal: Proc. Edinburgh Math. Soc. 46 (2003), 421-433
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0309390
abstract: We show that the representations of the Cuntz C$^\ast$-algebras $O_n$ which arise in wavelet analysis and dilation theory can be classified through a simple analysis of completely positive maps on finite-dimensional space. Based on this analysis, an application in quantum information theory is obtained; namely, a structure theorem for the fixed point set of a unital quantum channel. We also include some open problems motivated by this work.

id: nlin/0309004
title: Semiclassical Construction of Random Wave Functions for Confined Systems
authors: Juan Diego Urbina, Klaus Richter
comments: To be submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0309004
abstract: We develop a statistical description of chaotic wavefunctions in closed systems obeying arbitrary boundary conditions by combining a semiclassical expression for the spatial two-point correlation function with a treatment of eigenfunctions as Gaussian random fields. Thereby we generalize Berry's isotropic random wave model by incorporating confinement effects through classical paths reflected at the boundaries. Our approach allows to explicitly calculate highly non-trivial statistics, such as intensity distributions, in terms of usually few short orbits, depending on the energy window considered. We compare with numerical quantum results for the Africa billiard and derive non-isotropic random wave models for other prominent confinement geometries.

id: nucl-th/0309004
title: Quantum Phase Transitions in the Interacting Boson Model: Integrability, level repulsion and level crossing
authors: J.M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J.E. Garcia-Ramos
comments: Accepted in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 91 (2003) 162502
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0309004
abstract: We study the quantum phase transition mechanisms that arise in the Interacting Boson Model. We show that the second-order nature of the phase transition from U(5) to O(6) may be attributed to quantum integrability, whereas all the first-order phase transitions of the model are due to level repulsion with one singular point of level crossing. We propose a model Hamiltonian with a true first-order phase transition for finite systems due to level crossings.

id: physics/0309060
title: Approximations to path integrals and spectra of quantum systems
authors: S.I.Blinnikov, N.V.Nikitin
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0309060
abstract: An expression for the Green function G(E;x_1,x_2) of the Schroedinger equation is obtained through the approximations of the path integral by n-fold multiple integrals. The approximations to Re{G(E;x,x)} on the real E-axis have peaks near the values of the energy levels E_{j}. The analytic and numerical examples for one-dimensional and multi-dimensional harmonic and anharmonic oscillators, and Poeschl-Teller potential wells, show that median values of these peaks for approximate G(E;0,0) corresponds with accuracy of order 10% to the exact values of even levels already in the lowest orders of approximation n=1 and n=2, i.e. when the path integral is replaced by a line or double integral. The weights of the peaks approximate the values of the squared modulus of the wave functions at x=0 with the same accuracy.

id: physics/0309065
title: Effective photon-photon interaction in a two-dimensional "photon fluid"
authors: R.Y. Chiao, T.H. Hansson, J.M.Leinaas, S. Viefers
comments: 25 pages (revtex4), including 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0309065
abstract: We formulate an effective theory for the atom-mediated photon-photon interactions in a two-dimensional ``photon fluid'' confined in a Fabry-Perot resonator. With the atoms modelled by a collection of anharmonic Lorentz oscillators, the effective interaction is evaluated to second order in the coupling constant (the anharmonicity parameter). The interaction has the form of a renormalized two-dimensional delta-function potential, with the renormalization scale determined by the physical parameters of the system, such as density of atoms and the detuning of the photons relative to the resonance frequency of the atoms. For realistic values of the parameters, the perturbation series has to be resummed, and the effective interaction becomes independent of the ``bare'' strength of the anharmonic term. The resulting expression for the non-linear Kerr susceptibility, is parametrically equal to the one found earlier for a dilute gas of two-level atoms. Using our result for the effective interaction parameter, we derive conditions for the formation of a photon fluid, both for Rydberg atoms in a microwave cavity and for alkali atoms in an optical cavity.

id: physics/0309126
title: Image processing as state reconstruction in optics
authors: M. Jezek, Z. Hradil
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Optical Society of America A 21, 081407 (2004)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0309126
abstract: The image reconstruction of partially coherent light is interpreted as the quantum state reconstruction. The efficient method based on maximum-likelihood estimation is proposed to acquire information from registered intensity measurements affected by noise. The connection with totally incoherent image restoration is pointed out. The feasibility of the method is demonstrated numerically. Spatial and correlation details significantly smaller than the diffraction limit are revealed in the reconstructed pattern.

id: q-bio/0309009
title: Quantum noise, entanglement and chaos in the quantum field theory of mind/brain states
authors: Eliano Pessa, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 15 pages
journal: Mind and Matter 1, 59 (2003)
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0309009
abstract: We review the dissipative quantum model of brain and present recent developments related with the r\^ole of entanglement, quantum noise and chaos in the model.

id: physics/0309082
title: A New Monomeric Interpretation of Intrinsic Optical Bistability Observed in Yb3+ - Doped Bromide Materials
authors: F. Ciccarello, A. Napoli, A. Messina, S.R. Luthi
comments: 1 figure
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 381, 163 (2003)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0309082
abstract: We present a mechanism able to show intrinsic bistable behaviour involving single Yb3+ ions embedded into bromide lattices, in which intrinsic optical bistability (IOB) has been observed. The mechanism is based on the experimentally found coupling between the Yb3+ ion and the totally symmetric local mode of vibration of the [YbBr6]3- coordination unit. The model reproduces the IOB observed in CsCdBr3:1% Yb3+ and allows to understand the experimentally found presence of the phenomenon in the other bromides, but its absence in Cs3Lu2Cl9:Yb3+.

