id: quant-ph/0310001
title: Remote preparation of arbitrary ensembles and quantum bit commitment
authors: Hans Halvorson
comments: 21 pages, LaTeX. Version 2: Proofs expanded and made more self-contained; added an example of a bit commitment protocol with continuous ensembles
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 4920-4931
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310001
abstract: The Hughston-Jozsa-Wootters theorem shows that any finite ensemble of quantum states can be prepared "at a distance", and it has been used to demonstrate the insecurity of all bit commitment protocols based on finite quantum systems without superselection rules. In this paper, we prove a generalized HJW theorem for arbitrary ensembles of states on a C*-algebra. We then use this result to demonstrate the insecurity of bit commitment protocols based on infinite quantum systems, and quantum systems with Abelian superselection rules.

id: quant-ph/0310002
title: Quantum interference of ultrastable twin optical beams
authors: Sheng Feng, Olivier Pfister
comments: 4 pages, 4 figs, accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 203601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310002
abstract: We report the first measurement of the quantum phase-difference noise of an ultrastable nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator that emits twin beams classically phase-locked at exact frequency degeneracy. The measurement illustrates the property of a lossless balanced beam-splitter to convert number-difference squeezing into phase-difference squeezing and, thus, provides indirect evidence for Heisenberg-limited interferometry using twin beams. This experiment is a generalization of the Hong-Ou-Mandel interference effect for continuous variables and constitutes a milestone towards continuous-variable entanglement of bright, ultrastable nondegenerate beams.

id: quant-ph/0310003
title: Quantum-state tomography for spin-l systems
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 10 pages, including 2 tables, minor modifications in section II, final version for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042108 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310003
abstract: We show that the density matrix of a spin-l system can be described entirely in terms of the measurement statistics of projective spin measurements along a minimum of 4l+1 different spin directions. It is thus possible to represent the complete quantum statistics of any N-level system within the spherically symmetric three dimensional space defined by the spin vector. An explicit method for reconstructing the density matrix of a spin-1 system from the measurement statistics of five non-orthogonal spin directions is presented and the generalization to spin-l systems is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310004
title: Realistic interpretation of a superposition state does not imply a mixture
authors: Boon Leong Lan
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Theoretical Physics 47, 2686-2689 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310004
abstract: Contrary to previous claims, it is shown that, for an ensemble of either single-particle systems or multi-particle systems, the realistic interpretation of a superposition state that mathematically describes the ensemble does not imply that the ensemble is a mixture. Therefore it cannot be argued that the realistic interpretation is wrong on the basis that some predictions derived from the mixture are different from the corresponding predictions derived from the superposition state.

id: quant-ph/0310005
title: Minimum decoherence cat-like states in Gaussian noisy channels
authors: A. Serafini, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati, M.G.A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, references added, submitted to J. Opt. B
journal: J.Opt.BQuant.Semiclass.Opt.6:S591,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310005
abstract: We address the evolution of cat-like states in general Gaussian noisy channels, by considering superpositions of coherent and squeezed-coherent states coupled to an arbitrarily squeezed bath. The phase space dynamics is solved and decoherence is studied keeping track of the purity of the evolving state. The influence of the choice of the state and channel parameters on purity is discussed and optimal working regimes that minimize the decoherence rate are determined. In particular, we show that squeezing the bath to protect a non squeezed cat state against decoherence is equivalent to orthogonally squeezing the initial cat state while letting the bath be phase insensitive.

id: quant-ph/0310006
title: Analysis of Photoassociation Spectra for Giant Helium Dimers
authors: J. Leonard, A.P. Mosk, M. Walhout, P. Van Der Straten, M. Leduc, C. Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 69 (2004) 032702
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310006
abstract: We perform a theoretical analysis to interpret the spectra of purely long-range helium dimers produced by photoassociation (PA) in an ultra-cold gas of metastable helium atoms. The experimental spectrum obtained with the PA laser tuned closed to the $2^3S_1\leftrightarrow 2^3P_0$ atomic line has been reported in a previous Letter. Here, we first focus on the corrections to be applied to the measured resonance frequencies in order to infer the molecular binding energies. We then present a calculation of the vibrational spectra for the purely long-range molecular states, using adiabatic potentials obtained from perturbation theory. With retardation effects taken into account, the agreement between experimental and theoretical determinations of the spectrum for the $0_u^+$ purely long-range potential well is very good. The results yield a determination of the lifetime of the $2^3P$ atomic state.

id: quant-ph/0310007
title: Selective interactions in trapped ions: state reconstruction and quantum logic
authors: E. Solano
comments: 4 revtex4 pages and 2 eps figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 013813 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310007
abstract: We propose the implementation of selective interactions of atom-motion subspaces in trapped ions. These interactions yield resonant exchange of population inside a selected subspace, leaving the others in a highly dispersive regime. Selectivity allows us to generate motional Fock (and other nonclassical) states with high purity out of a wide class of initial states, and becomes an unconventional cooling mechanism when the ground state is chosen. Individual population of number states can be distinctively measured, as well as the motional Wigner function. Furthermore, a protocol for implementing quantum logic through a suitable control of selective subspaces is presented.

id: quant-ph/0310008
title: The wave function as a mathematical description of a free particle's possible motion: The 2-slit problem with attempted detection
authors: Thomas O'Malley
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, Latex2, submitted to J Phys A with a short addition to Sec. 3.2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310008
abstract: Starting with a down to earth interpretation of quantum mechanics for a free particle, the disappearance and reappearance of interference in the 2 slit problem with a detector behind one are treated in detail. A partial interpretation of quantum theory is employed which is simple, emphasizing description, yet adequate for addressing the present problem. Given that the eigenvalue equation is essential to predict a free particle's probability of collision, it is argued that there is equal need for a realistic theory to describe its possible motion. Feynman's point-to-point space-time wave packet is put forth and used as the appropriate description of the field-free motion between collisions. For a particle in a conventional 2-slit experiment with attempted detection behind one, the disappearance of interference is explained - both when the detection succeeds and when it doesn't. Also a definite prediction is made, when the inter-slit distance is reduced, of where the first signs of interference should appear on the detection screen.

id: quant-ph/0310009
title: Optimal measurements for relative quantum information
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032321 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310009
abstract: We provide optimal measurement schemes for estimating relative parameters of the quantum state of a pair of spin systems. We prove that the optimal measurements are joint measurements on the pair of systems, meaning that they cannot be achieved by local operations and classical communication. We also demonstrate that in the limit where one of the spins becomes macroscopic, our results reproduce those that are obtained by treating that spin as a classical reference direction.

id: quant-ph/0310010
title: Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen, and Shannon
authors: Asher Peres
comments: submitted to Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310010
abstract: The EPR paradox (1935) is reexamined in the light of Shannon's information theory (1948). The EPR argument did not take into account that the observers' information was localized, like any other physical object.

id: quant-ph/0310011
title: Quantum States Estimation: Root Approach
authors: Yu.I.Bogdanov
comments: 10 pages, the International Conference "Micro- and nanoelectronics- 2003" (ICMNE-2003), Zvenigorod, Moscow district, October 6-10, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310011
abstract: Multiparametric statistical model providing stable reconstruction of parameters by observations is considered. The only general method of this kind is the root model based on the representation of the probability density as a squared absolute value of a certain function, which is referred to as a psi-function in analogy with quantum mechanics. The psi-function is represented by an expansion in terms of an orthonormal set of functions. It is shown that the introduction of the psi-function allows one to represent the Fisher information matrix as well as statistical properties of the estimator of the state vector (state estimator) in simple analytical forms. A new statistical characteristic, a confidence cone, is introduced instead of a standard confidence interval. The chi-square test is considered to test the hypotheses that the estimated vector converges to the state vector of a general population and that both samples are homogeneous. The expansion coefficients are estimated by the maximum likelihood method. The method proposed may be applied to its full extent to solve the statistical inverse problem of quantum mechanics (root estimator of quantum states). In order to provide statistical completeness of the analysis, it is necessary to perform measurements in mutually complementing experiments (according to the Bohr terminology). The maximum likelihood technique and likelihood equation are generalized in order to analyze quantum mechanical experiments. It is shown that the requirement for the expansion to be of a root kind can be considered as a quantization condition making it possible to choose systems described by quantum mechanics from all statistical models consistent, on average, with the laws of classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0310012
title: Slow Light in Doppler Broadened Two level Systems
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Tarak Nath Dey
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 063816 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310012
abstract: We show that the propagation of light in a Doppler broadened medium can be slowed down considerably eventhough such medium exhibits very flat dispersion. The slowing down is achieved by the application of a saturating counter propagating beam that produces a hole in the inhomogeneous line shape. In atomic vapors, we calculate group indices of the order of 10^3. The calculations include all coherence effects.

id: quant-ph/0310013
title: Informationally complete measurements and groups representation
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 9 pages, no figures, IOP style. Some new references added
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semicl. Optics, vol. 6, S487 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310013
abstract: Informationally complete measurements on a quantum system allow to estimate the expectation value of any arbitrary operator by just averaging functions of the experimental outcomes. We show that such kind of measurements can be achieved through positive-operator valued measures (POVM's) related to unitary irreducible representations of a group on the Hilbert space of the system. With the help of frame theory we provide a constructive way to evaluate the data-processing function for arbitrary operators.

id: quant-ph/0310014
title: The Many Worlds of Uncertainty
authors: Clare Hewitt-Horsman
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310014
abstract: The status of the uncertainty relations varies between the different interpretations of quantum mechanics. The aim of the current paper is to explore their meanings within a certain neo-Everettian many worlds interpretation. We will also look at questions that have been linked with the uncertainty relations since Heisenberg's uncertainty principle: those of joint and repeated measurement of non-commuting (or otherwise `incompatible') observables. This will have implications beyond the uncertainty relations, as we will see the fundamentally different way in which statistical statements are interpreted in the neo-Everett theory that we use.

id: quant-ph/0310015
title: A quantum computer using a trapped-ion spin molecule and microwave radiation
authors: D. Mc Hugh, J. Twamley
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. New references added, additional material on quantum error correction and device tolerances
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310015
abstract: We propose a new design for a quantum information processor where qubits are encoded into Hyperfine states of ions held in a linear array of individually tailored microtraps and sitting in a spatially varying magnetic field. The magnetic field gradient introduces spatially dependent qubit transition frequencies and a type of spin-spin interaction between qubits. Single and multi-qubit manipulation is achieved via resonant microwave pulses as in liquid-NMR quantum computation while the qubit readout and reset is achieved through trapped-ion fluorescence shelving techniques. By adjusting the microtrap configurations we can tailor, in hardware, the qubit resonance frequencies and coupling strengths. We show the system possesses a side-band transition structure which does not scale with the size of the processor allowing scalable frequency discrimination between qubits. By using large magnetic field gradients, one can readout and reset the qubits in the ion chain via frequency selective optical pulses avoiding the need for many tightly focused laser beams for spatial qubit addressing.

id: quant-ph/0310016
title: Rotational invariance and the spin-statistics theorem
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 22 pages
journal: Found.Phys. 33 (2003) 1349-1368
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310016
abstract: In this article the rotational invariance of entangled quantum states is investigated as a possible cause of the Pauli exclusion principle. First, it is shown that a certain class of rotationally invariant states can only occur in pairs. This is referred to as the coupling principle. This in turn suggests a natural classification of quantum systems into those containing coupled states and those that do not. Surprisingly, it would seem that Fermi-Dirac statistics follows as a consequence of this coupling while the Bose-Einstein follows by breaking it. In section 5, the above approach is related to Pauli's original spin-statistics theorem and finally in the last two sections, a theoretical justification, based on Clebsch-Gordan coefficients and the experimental evidence respectively, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0310017
title: Classical Teleportation of Classical States
authors: Oliver Cohen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310017
abstract: The standard quantum teleportation scheme is deconstructed, and those aspects of it that appear remarkable and "non-classical" are identified. An alternative teleportation scheme, involving only classical states and classical information, is then formulated, and it is shown that the classical scheme reproduces all of these remarkable aspects, including those that had seemed non-classical. This leads to a re-examination of quantum teleportation, which suggests that its significance depends on the interpretation of quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0310018
title: Optimal Topological Test for Degeneracies of Real Hamiltonians
authors: Niklas Johansson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor corrections, accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 060406 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310018
abstract: We consider adiabatic transport of eigenstates of real Hamiltonians around loops in parameter space. It is demonstrated that loops that map to nontrivial loops in the space of eigenbases must encircle degeneracies. Examples from Jahn-Teller theory are presented to illustrate the test. We show furthermore that the proposed test is optimal.

id: quant-ph/0310019
title: A note on Coulomb scattering amplitude
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310019
abstract: The summation of the partial wave series for Coulomb scattering amplitude, $f^C(\theta)$ is avoided because the series is oscillatorily and divergent. Instead, $f^C(\theta)$ is obtained by solving the Schr{\"o}dinger equation in parabolic cylindrical co-ordinates which is not a general method. Here, we show that a reconstructed series, $(1-\cos\theta) ^2f^C(\theta)$, is both convergent and analytically summable.

id: quant-ph/0310020
title: A biphotons double slit experiment
authors: G. Brida, E. Cagliero, G. Falzetta, M. Genovese M. Gramegna, E. predazzi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 033803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310020
abstract: In this paper we present a double slit experiment where two undistinguishable photons produced by type I PDC are sent each to a well defined slit. Data about the diffraction and interference patterns for coincidences are presented and discussed. An analysis of these data allows a first test of standard quantum mechanics against de Broglie-Bohm theory.

id: quant-ph/0310021
title: Teleportation scheme implementing contextually the Universal Optimal Quantum Cloning Machine and the Universal Not Gate. Complete experimental realization
authors: M. Ricci, F. Sciarrino, C. Sias, F. De Martini
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 047901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310021
abstract: By a significant modification of the standard protocol of quantum state Teleportation two processes ''forbidden'' by quantum mechanics in their exact form, the Universal NOT gate and the Universal Optimal Quantum Cloning Machine, have been implemented contextually and optimally by a fully linear method. In particular, the first experimental demonstration of the Tele-UNOT Gate, a novel quantum information protocol has been reported (cfr. quant-ph/0304070). A complete experimental realization of the protocol is presented here.

id: quant-ph/0310022
title: Entanglement structure of adjoint representation of unitary group and tomography of quantum states
authors: V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, E. C. G. Sudarshan, F. Zaccaria
comments: Latex, material of talk at conference in Bregenz, July 2003, accepted for publication by Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: J.Russ.Laser Res. 24 (2003) 507-543
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310022
abstract: The density matrix of composite spin system is discussed in relation to the adjoint representation of unitary group U(n). The entanglement structure is introduced as an additional ingredient to the description of the linear space carrying the adjoint representation. Positive maps of density operator are related to random matrices. The tomographic probability description of quantum states is used to formulate the problem of separability and entanglement as the condition for joint probability distribution of several random variables represented as the convex sum of products of probabilities of random variables describing the subsystems. The property is discussed as a possible criterion for separability or entanglement. The convenient criterion of positivity of finite and infinite matrix is obtained. The U(n)-tomogram of a multiparticle spin state is introduced. The entanglement measure is considered in terms of this tomogram.

id: quant-ph/0310023
title: Disentanglement as particles separate
authors: B. C. Sanctuary
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310023
abstract: Disentanglement refers to decoherence that destroys the quantum interference terms between particles as they separate. This process reduces the pure isotropic entangled EPR state to a mixed anisotropic state. Averaging over the ensemble of states leads to correlations between separated particles that satisfies Bell's inequalities. Applying disentanglement to EPR pairs of photons shows that entanglement is characterized by various two-particle symmetry properties. These symmetry properties are destroyed by disentanglement but photon helicity is conserved. This is sufficient to account for the correlations needed to resolve the EPR paradox. Apart from a numerical factor, the functional form for the correlations due to entanglement and disentanglement is identical, thereby making it difficult to distinguish between the two in the current experiments.

id: quant-ph/0310024
title: Extremal covariant quantum operations and POVM's
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: 18 pages, to appear on J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45 3620-3635 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310024
abstract: We consider the convex sets of QO's (quantum operations) and POVM's (positive operator valued measures) which are covariant under a general finite-dimensional unitary representation of a group. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for extremality, and give general bounds for ranks of the extremal POVM's and QO's. Results are illustrated on the basis of simple examples.

id: quant-ph/0310025
title: Least paradoxical states of the Schr?dinger cat
authors: Andrey Pereverzev
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310025
abstract: Modeling the Schr\"{o}dinger cat by a two state system and assuming that the cat is coupled to the environment we look for the least paradoxical states of the Schr\"{o}dinger cat in the following way. We require the reduced density matrix of the cat for one of the two states in the superposition to be the same as the one for the total state while distinct from the reduced density matrix of the cat for the other state in the superposition. We then look for the reduced density matrices for which the cat is as alive as possible for the first state (and as dead as possible for the second state). The resulting states are those in which the probability for the cat to be alive (or dead) is $1/2+\sqrt 2/4\approx 0.854$

id: quant-ph/0310026
title: Two examples of discrete-time quantum walks taking continuous steps
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb
comments: 6 pages. Title changed and more content added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310026
abstract: This note introduces some examples of quantum random walks in d-dimensional Eucilidean space and proves the weak convergence of their rescaled n-step densities. One of the examples is called the Plancherel quantum walk because the "quantum coin flip" is the Fourier Integral (or Plancherel) Transform. The other examples are the Birkhoff quantum walks, so named because the coin flips are effected by means of measure preserving transformations to which the Birkhoff's Ergodic Theorem is applied.

id: quant-ph/0310027
title: Convex-roof extended negativity as an entanglement measure for bipartite quantum systems
authors: Soojoon Lee, Dong Pyo Chi, Sung Dahm Oh, Jaewan Kim
comments: 6 pages; accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062304 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310027
abstract: We extend the concept of the negativity, a good measure of entanglement for bipartite pure states, to mixed states by means of the convex-roof extension. We show that the measure does not increase under local quantum operations and classical communication, and derive explicit formulae for the entanglement measure of isotropic states and Werner states, applying the formalism presented by Vollbrecht and Werner [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 64}, 062307 (2001)].

id: quant-ph/0310028
title: Rotated and scaled center of mass tomography for several particles
authors: A. S. Arkhipov, Yu. E. Lozovik, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310028
abstract: The tomographic map of quantum state of a system with several degrees of freedom which depends on one random variable, analogous to center of mass considered in rotated and scaled reference frame in the phase space, is constructed. Time evolution equation of the tomogram for this map is given in explicit form. Properties of the map like the transition probabilities between the different states and relation to the star product formalism are elucidated. Example of multimode oscillator is considered in details. Symmetry properties in respect to identical particles permutations are discussed in the framework of proposed tomography scheme.

id: quant-ph/0310029
title: Quantum Modeling
authors: Darin Goldstein
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, in Proceedings, SPIE Conference on Quantum Computation and Quantum Information, pp. 116-127, April 21-22, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310029
abstract: We present a modification of Simon's algorithm that in some cases is able to fit experimentally obtained data to appropriately chosen trial functions with high probability. Modulo constants pertaining to the reliability and probability of success of the algorithm, the algorithm runs using only O(polylog(|Y|)) queries to the quantum database and O(polylog(|X|,|Y|)) elementary quantum gates where |X| is the size of the experimental data set and |Y| is the size of the parameter space.We discuss heuristics for good performance, analyze the performance of the algorithm in the case of linear regression, both one-dimensional and multidimensional, and outline the algorithm's limitations.

id: quant-ph/0310030
title: Local entanglement and quantum phase transition in the Hubbard model
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, You-Quan Li, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 086402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310030
abstract: The local entanglement $E_v$ of the one-dimensional Hubbard model is studied on the basis of its Bethe-ansatz solution. The relationship between the local entanglement and the on-site Coulomb interaction $U$ is obtained. Our results show that $E_v$ is an even analytic function of $U$ at half-filling and it reaches a maximum at the critical point U=0. The variation of the local entanglement with the filling factor shows that the ground state with maximal symmetry possesses maximal entanglement. The magnetic field makes the local entanglement to decrease and approach to zero at saturated magnetization. The on-site Coulomb interaction always suppresses the local entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0310031
title: On the transfer of entanglement from a two-mode squeezed state to a pair of qubits
authors: M. Paternostro, W. Son, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figure, RevTeX; revised version: more results added, some points clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310031
abstract: There have recently been interests in transferring entanglement between two quantum systems in different Hilbert spaces. In particular, the study of entanglement transfer from a continuous-variable to a qubit system has a primary importance due to practical implications. A continuous-variable system easily propagates entanglement while a qubit system is easy to manipulate. We investigate conditions to entangle two two-level atoms for a broad-band two-mode squeezed field driving the cavities where the atoms are.

id: quant-ph/0310032
title: Correspondences and Quantum Description of Aharonov-Bohm and Aharonov-Casher Effects
authors: Minchul Lee, M.Y. Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310032
abstract: We establish systematic consolidation of the Aharonov-Bohm and Aharonov-Casher effects including their scalar counterparts. Their formal correspondences in acquiring topological phases are revealed on the basis of the gauge symmetry in non-simply connected spaces and the adiabatic condition for the state of magnetic dipoles. In addition, investigation of basic two-body interactions between an electric charge and a magnetic dipole clarifies their appropriate relative motions and discloses physical interrelations between the effects. Based on the two-body interaction, we also construct an exact microscopic description of the Aharonov-Bohm effect, where all the elements are treated on equal footing, i.e., magnetic dipoles are described quantum-mechanically and electromagnetic fields are quantized. This microscopic analysis not only confirms the conventional (semiclassical) results and the topological nature but also allows one to explore the fluctuation effects due to the precession of the magnetic dipoles with the adiabatic condition relaxed.

id: quant-ph/0310033
title: Quantum Measurement, Complexity and Discrete Physics
authors: Martin Leckey
comments: 17 pages, Latex, uses wp2latex.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310033
abstract: This paper presents a new modified quantum mechanics, Critical Complexity Quantum Mechanics, which includes a new account of wavefunction collapse. This modified quantum mechanics is shown to arise naturally from a fully discrete physics, where all physical quantities are discrete rather than continuous. I compare this theory with the spontaneous collapse theories of Ghirardi, Rimini, Weber and Pearle and discuss some implications of these theories and CCQM for a realist view of the quantum realm.

id: quant-ph/0310034
title: Analytic pulse design for selective population transfer in many-level quantum systems: maximizing amplitude of population oscillations
authors: Duje Bonacci
comments: Published in Phys.Rev.A. This is the final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 043413 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310034
abstract: State selective preparation and manipulation of discrete-level quantum systems such as atoms, molecules or quantum dots is a the ultimate tool for many diverse fields such as laser control of chemical reactions, atom optics, high-precision metrology and quantum computing. Rabi oscillations are one of the simplest, yet potentially quite useful mechanisms for achieving such manipulation. Rabi theory establishes that in the two-level systems resonant drive leads to the periodic and complete population oscillations between the two system levels. In this paper an analytic optimization algorithm for producing Rabi-like oscillations in the general discrete many-level quantum systems is presented.

id: quant-ph/0310035
title: Finite precision measurement nullifies Euclid's postulates
authors: Asher Peres
comments: 1 page, submitted as a Comment to Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310035
abstract: Following Meyer's argument (quant-ph/9905080) the set of all directions in space is replaced by the dense subset of rational directions. The result conflicts with Euclidean geometry.

id: quant-ph/0310036
title: Non-linear and quantum optics of a type II OPO containing a birefringent element Part 1: Classical operation
authors: Laurent Longchambon, Julien Laurat, Thomas Coudreau, Claude Fabre
comments: To be published in EPJD
journal: European Physical Journal D 30 (2004) 279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310036
abstract: We describe theoretically the main characteristics of the steady state regime of a type II Optical Parametric Oscillator (OPO) containing a birefringent plate. In such a device the signal and idler waves are at the same time linearly coupled by the plate and nonlinearly coupled by the $\chi^{(2)}$ crystal. This mixed coupling allows, in some well-defined range of the control parameters, a frequency degenerate operation as well as phase locking between the signal and idler modes. We describe here a complete model taking into account all possible effects in the system, \emph{i.e.} arbitrary rotation of the waveplate, non perfect phase matching, ring and linear cavities. This model is able to explain the detailed features of the experiments performed with this system.

id: quant-ph/0310037
title: Monogamy of entanglement and other correlations
authors: Masato Koashi, Andreas Winter
comments: 7 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69(2):022309, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310037
abstract: It has been observed by numerous authors that a quantum system being entangled with another one limits its possible entanglement with a third system: this has been dubbed the "monogamous nature of entanglement". In this paper we present a simple identity which captures the trade-off between entanglement and classical correlation, which can be used to derive rigorous monogamy relations. We also prove various other trade-offs of a monogamy nature for other entanglement measures and secret and total correlation measures.

id: quant-ph/0310038
title: Exponential speed-up with a single bit of quantum information: Testing the quantum butterfly effect
authors: David Poulin, Robin Blume-Kohout, Raymond Laflamme, Harold Ollivier
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 177906 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310038
abstract: We present an efficient quantum algorithm to measure the average fidelity decay of a quantum map under perturbation using a single bit of quantum information. Our algorithm scales only as the complexity of the map under investigation, so for those maps admitting an efficient gate decomposition, it provides an exponential speed up over known classical procedures. Fidelity decay is important in the study of complex dynamical systems, where it is conjectured to be a signature of quantum chaos. Our result also illustrates the role of chaos in the process of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0310039
title: Entanglement Detection in Optical Lattices of Bosonic Atoms with Collective Measurements
authors: Geza Toth
comments: 5 pages, revtex4, no figures; changes before publication
journal: Physical Review A 69, 052327 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310039
abstract: The minimum requirements for entanglement detection are discussed for a spin chain in which the spins cannot be individually accessed. The methods presented detect entangled states close to a cluster state and a many-body singlet state, and seem to be viable for experimental realization in optical lattices of two-state bosonic atoms. The entanglement criteria are based on entanglement witnesses and on the uncertainty of collective observables.

id: quant-ph/0310040
title: Long time Evolution of Quantum Averages Near Stationary Points
authors: Gennady Berman, Misha Vishik
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310040
abstract: We construct explicit expressions for quantum averages in coherent states for a Hamiltonian of degree 4 with a hyperbolic stagnation point. These expressions are valid for all times and "collapse" (i.e., become infinite) along a discrete sequence of times. We compute quantum corrections compared to classical expressions. These corrections become significant over a time period of order C log 1/\hbar.

id: quant-ph/0310041
title: There exist non orthogonal quantum measurements that are perfectly repeatable
authors: F. Buscemi, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex4, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 92, 070403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310041
abstract: We show that, contrarily to the widespread belief, in quantum mechanics repeatable measurements are not necessarily described by orthogonal projectors--the customary paradigm of "observable". Nonorthogonal repeatability, however, occurs only for infinite dimensions. We also show that when a non orthogonal repeatable measurement is performed, the measured system retains some "memory" of the number of times that the measurement has been performed.

id: quant-ph/0310042
title: Experimental evidence for bounds on quantum correlations
authors: F. A. Bovino, G. Castagnoli, I. P. Degiovanni, S. Castelletto
comments: RevTex style, 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear on PRL with minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310042
abstract: We implemented the experiment proposed by Cabello [arXiv:quant-ph/0309172] to test the bounds of quantum correlation. As expected from the theory we found that, for certain choices of local observables, Cirel'son's bound of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality ($2\sqrt{2}$) is not reached by any quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0310043
title: Addressing atoms in optical lattices with Bessel beams
authors: M. Saffman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 29, 1016 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310043
abstract: A method of synthesizing localized optical fields with zeroes on a periodic lattice is analyzed. The applicability to addressing atoms trapped in optical lattices with low crosstalk is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310044
title: Inversionless light amplification and optical switching controlled by state-dependent alignment of molecules
authors: A. K. Popov, V. V. Slabko
comments: AMS-LaTeX v1.2, 4 pages with 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 30, 1719-21 (2005); J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38, 1787-1796 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310044
abstract: We propose a method to achieve amplification without population inversion by anisotropic molecules whose orientation by an external electric field is state-dependent. It is based on decoupling of the lower-state molecules from the resonant light while the excited ones remain emitting. The suitable class of molecules is discussed, the equation for the gain factor is derived, and the magnitude of the inversionless amplification is estimated for the typical experimental conditions. Such switching of the sample from absorbing to amplifying via transparent state is shown to be possible both with the aid of dc and ac control electric fields.

id: quant-ph/0310045
title: Zeno dynamics and constraints
authors: P. Facchi, G. Marmo, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 21 pages
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) S492
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310045
abstract: We investigate some examples of quantum Zeno dynamics, when a system undergoes very frequent (projective) measurements that ascertain whether it is within a given spatial region. In agreement with previously obtained results, the evolution is found to be unitary and the generator of the Zeno dynamics is the Hamiltonian with hard-wall (Dirichlet) boundary conditions. By using a new approach to this problem, this result is found to be valid in an arbitrary $N$-dimensional compact domain. We then propose some preliminary ideas concerning the algebra of observables in the projected region and finally look at the case of a projection onto a lower dimensional space: in such a situation the Zeno ansatz turns out to be a procedure to impose constraints.

id: quant-ph/0310046
title: Quantum Lithography in Macroscopic Observations
authors: De-Zhong Cao, Kaige Wang
comments: 6 pages, 5 Postscript figures, uses revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310046
abstract: We study the generalized Young's double-slit interference for the beam produced in the spontaneously parametric down-conversion (SPDC). We find that the sub-wavelength lithography can occur macroscopically in both the two-photon intensity measurement and the single-photon spatial intensity correlation measurement. We show the visibility and the strength of the interference fringe related to the SPDC interaction. It may provide a strong quantum lithography with a moderate visibility in practical application.

id: quant-ph/0310047
title: Single spin measurement using spin-orbital entanglement
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, A.E.Popescu
comments: RevTeX4, 4 pages, some figs; updated to the published version
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 120 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310047
abstract: Single spin measurement represents a major challenge for spin-based quantum computation. In this article we propose a new method for measuring the spin of a single electron confined in a quantum dot (QD). Our strategy is based on entangling (using unitary gates) the spin and orbital degrees of freedom. An {\em orbital qubit}, defined by a second, empty QD, is used as an ancilla and is prepared in a known initial state. Measuring the orbital qubit will reveal the state of the (unknown) initial spin qubit, hence reducing the problem to the easier task of single charge measurement. Since spin-charge conversion is done with unit probability, single-shot measurement of an electronic spin can be, in principle, achieved. We evaluate the robustness of our method against various sources of error and discuss briefly possible implementations.

id: quant-ph/0310048
title: Fast light, slow light, and phase singularities: a connection to generalized weak values
authors: D. R. Solli, C. F. McCormick, R. Y. Chiao, S. Popescu, J. M. Hickmann
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, accepted in Physical Review Letters (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310048
abstract: We demonstrate that Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman (AAV) weak values have a direct relationship with the response function of a system, and have a much wider range of applicability in both the classical and quantum domains than previously thought. Using this idea, we have built an optical system, based on a birefringent photonic crystal, with an infinite number of weak values. In this system, the propagation speed of a polarized light pulse displays both superluminal and slow light behavior with a sharp transition between the two regimes. We show that this system's response possesses two-dimensional, vortex-antivortex phase singularities. Important consequences for optical signal processing are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310049
title: Minimization of nonresonant effects in a scalable Ising spin quantum computer
authors: G.P. Berman, D.I. Kamenev, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310049
abstract: The errors caused by the transitions with large frequency offsets (nonresonant transitions) are calculated analytically for a scalable solid-state quantum computer based on a one-dimensional spin chain with Ising interactions between neighboring spins. Selective excitations of the spins are enabled by a uniform gradient of the external magnetic field. We calculate the probabilities of all unwanted nonresonant transitions associated with the flip of each spin with nonresonant frequency and with flips of two spins: one with resonant and one with nonresonant frequencies. It is shown that these errors oscillate with changing the gradient of the external magnetic field. Choosing the optimal values of this gradient allows us to decrease these errors by 50%.

id: quant-ph/0310050
title: The Gram Matrix of a PT-symmetric Quantum System
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 54 (2004) 147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310050
abstract: The eigenstates of a diagonalizable PT-symmetric Hamiltonian satisfy unconventional completeness and orthonormality relations. These relations reflect the properties of a pair of bi-orthonormal bases associated with non-hermitean diagonalizable operators. In a similar vein, such a dual pair of bases is shown to possess, in the presence of PT symmetry, a Gram matrix of a particular structure: its inverse is obtained by simply swapping the signs of some its matrix elements.

id: quant-ph/0310051
title: Explicit Spectral formulae for scaling quantum graphs
authors: Yu. Dabaghian, R. Bl¨¹mel
comments: 40 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310051
abstract: We present an exact analytical solution of the spectral problem of quasi one-dimensional scaling quantum graphs. Strongly stochastic in the classical limit, these systems are frequently employed as models of quantum chaos. We show that despite their classical stochasticity all scaling quantum graphs are explicitly solvable in the form $E_n=f(n)$, where $n$ is the sequence number of the energy level of the quantum graph and $f$ is a known function, which depends only on the physical and geometrical properties of the quantum graph. Our method of solution motivates a new classification scheme for quantum graphs: we show that each quantum graph can be uniquely assigned an integer $m$ reflecting its level of complexity. We show that a taut string with piecewise constant mass density provides an experimentally realizable analogue system of scaling quantum graphs.

id: quant-ph/0310052
title: Quantum adiabatic algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem: I. The algorithm
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: Typos fixed, substantial results added in Section III, new reference and footnotes added. Now 22 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310052
abstract: We review the proposal of a quantum algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem and provide further arguments towards the proof that: (i) the algorithm terminates after a finite time for any input of Diophantine equation; (ii) the final ground state which contains the answer for the Diophantine equation can be identified as the component state having better-than-even probability to be found by measurement at the end time--even though probability for the final ground state in a quantum adiabatic process need not monotonically increase towards one in general. Presented finally are the reasons why our algorithm is outside the jurisdiction of no-go arguments previously employed to show that Hilbert's tenth problem is recursively non-computable.

id: quant-ph/0310053
title: Two and Three Qubits Geometry and Hopf Fibrations
authors: Remy Mosseri
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. The main content of this paper was presented at the Dresde (Germany) "Topology in Condensed Matter Physics" colloquium in june 2002. To appear in a book
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310053
abstract: This paper reviews recent attempts to describe the two- and three-qubit Hilbert space geometries with the help of Hopf fibrations. In both cases, it is shown that the associated Hopf map is strongly sensitive to states entanglement content. In the two-qubit case, a generalization of the one-qubit celebrated Bloch sphere representation is described.

id: quant-ph/0310054
title: Quantum correlations and secret bits
authors: Antonio Acin, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 020501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310054
abstract: It is shown that (i) all entangled states can be mapped by single-copy measurements into probability distributions containing secret correlations, and (ii) if a probability distribution obtained from a quantum state contains secret correlations, then this state has to be entangled. These results prove the existence of a two-way connection between secret and quantum correlations in the process of preparation. They also imply that either it is possible to map any bound entangled state into a distillable probability distribution or bipartite bound information exists.

id: quant-ph/0310055
title: A deterministic Bell model
authors: Samuel Colin
comments: 16 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A317 (2003), 349-358
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310055
abstract: Following ideas given by John Bell in a paper entitled \textit{Beables for quantum field theory}, we show that it is possible to obtain a realistic and deterministic interpretation of any quantum field-theoretic model involving Fermi fields.

id: quant-ph/0310056
title: Beables for Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Samuel Colin
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the Peyresq conference on electromagnetism (September 2002). Annales de la Fondation de Broglie
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310056
abstract: We show that it is possible to obtain a realistic and deterministic model, based on a previous work of John Bell, which reproduces the experimental predictions of the orthodox interpretation of quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0310057
title: Interfacing quantum optical and solid state qubits
authors: L. Tian, P. Rabl, R. Blatt, P. Zoller
comments: submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 247902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310057
abstract: We present a generic model of coupling quantum optical and solid state qubits, and the corresponding transfer protocols. The example discussed is a trapped ion coupled to a charge qubit (e.g. Cooper pair box). To enhance the coupling, and achieve compatibility between the different experimental setups we introduce a superconducting cavity as the connecting element.

id: quant-ph/0310058
title: Violating Bell's inequalities in the vacuum
authors: Benni Reznik, Alex Retzker, Jonathan Silman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. A discussion has been added on the nature of the relativistic corrections for the particle detectors. We argue that such corrections do not affect the conclusions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310058
abstract: We employ an approach wherein vacuum entanglement is directly probed in a controlled manner. The approach consists of having a pair of initially nonentangled detectors locally interact with the field for a finite duration, such that the two detectors remain causally disconnected, and then analyzing the resulting detector mixed state. It is demonstrated that the correlations between arbitrarily far-apart regions of the vacuum of a relativistic free scalar field cannot be reproduced by a local hidden-variable model, and that as a function of the distance L between the regions, the entanglement decreases at a slower rate than exp(-(L/cT)^3).

id: quant-ph/0310059
title: Dispersion Relations and Relativistic Causality
authors: H. Fearn, R. H. Gibb
comments: 13 pages no figures (condensed format) Changes has been made to the Scharnhorst section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310059
abstract: In this paper we show that if the refractive index, or rather (n(w) -1) satisfies the dispersion relations then, it is implied by Titchmarsh's theorem that n(w) -> 1 as w -> infinity. Any other limiting value for n(w) would violate relativistic causality, by which we mean not only that cause must precede effect but also that signals cannot travel faster-than-c (the velocity of light) in a vacuum. This paper does not claim to be a mathematically rigorous proof, but the authors hope to have succeeded in supplying a very convincing argument against faster-than-c light signals. Keywords: Dispersion relations, Kramers Kronig relations, Causality, faster-than-c signals.

id: quant-ph/0310060
title: Quantum state targeting
authors: Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310060
abstract: We introduce a new primitive for quantum communication that we term "state targeting" wherein the goal is to pass a test for a target state even though the system upon which the test is performed is submitted prior to learning the target state's identity. Success in state targeting can be described as having some control over the outcome of the test. We show that increasing one's control above a minimum amount implies an unavoidable increase in the probability of failing the test. This is analogous to the unavoidable disturbance to a quantum state that results from gaining information about its identity, and can be shown to be a purely quantum effect. We provide some applications of the results to the security analysis of cryptographic tasks implemented between remote antagonistic parties. Although we focus on weak coin flipping, the results are significant for other two-party protocols, such as strong coin flipping, partially binding and concealing bit commitment, and bit escrow. Furthermore, the results have significance not only for the traditional notion of security in cryptography, that of restricting a cheater's ability to bias the outcome of the protocol, but also on a novel notion of security that arises only in the quantum context, that of cheat-sensitivity. Finally, our analysis of state targeting leads to some interesting secondary results, for instance, a generalization of Uhlmann's theorem and an operational interpretation of the fidelity between two mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0310061
title: The volume of separable states is super-doubly-exponentially small
authors: Stanislaw Szarek
comments: 20 p., LATEX; an expanded version of the original submission: more background material from convexity and geometry of Banach spaces, more exhaustive bibliography and improved quality of references to the bibliography
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310061
abstract: In this note we give sharp estimates on the volume of the set of separable states on N qubits. In particular, the magnitude of the "effective radius" of that set in the sense of volume is determined up to a factor which is a (small) power of N, and thus precisely on the scale of powers of its dimension. Additionally, one of the appendices contains sharp estimates (by known methods) for the expected values of norms of the GUE random matrices. We employ standard tools of classical convexity, high-dimensional probability and geometry of Banach spaces.

id: quant-ph/0310062
title: Quantum Implication Algebras
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables; To be published in International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 42, No. 12 (2003); Web page: this http URL
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 42, No. 12, 2807-2822 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310062
abstract: Quantum implication algebras without complementation are formulated with the same axioms for all five quantum implications. Previous formulations of orthoimplication, orthomodular implication, and quasi-implication algebras are analysed and put in perspective to each other and our results.

id: quant-ph/0310063
title: Equivalences, Identities, Symmetric Differences, and Congruences in Orthomodular Lattices
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, 1 table; To be published in International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 42, No. 12 (2003); Web page: this http URL
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 42, No. 12, 2797-2805 (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310063
abstract: It is shown that operations of equivalence cannot serve for building algebras which would induce orthomodular lattices as the operations of implication can. Several properties of equivalence operations have been investigated. Distributivity of equivalence terms and several other 3 variable expressions involving equivalence terms have been proved to hold in any orthomodular lattice. Symmetric differences have been shown to reduce to complements of equivalence terms. Some congruence relations related to equivalence operations and symmetric differences have been considered.

id: quant-ph/0310064
title: Entanglement measure for the universal classes of fractons
authors: Wellington da Cruz, S. Shelly Sharma
comments: latex, 11 pages. Final version to appear in PHYSICA A (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310064
abstract: We introduce the notion of entanglement measure for the universal classes of fractons as an entanglement between ocuppation-numbers of fractons in the lowest Landau levels and the rest of the many-body system of particles. This definition came as an entropy of the probability distribution {\it \`a la} Shannon. Fractons are charge-flux systems classified in universal classes of particles or quasiparticles labelled by a fractal or Hausdorff dimension defined within the interval $1 < h < 2$ and associated with the fractal quantum curves of such objects. They carry rational or irrational values of spin and the spin-statistics connection takes place in this fractal approach to the fractional spin particles. We take into account the fractal von Neumann entropy associated with the fractal distribution function which each universal class of fractons satisfies. We consider the fractional quantum Hall effect-FQHE given that fractons can model Hall states. According to our formulation entanglement between occupaton-numbers in this context increases with the universality classes of the quantum Hall transitions considered as fractal sets of dual topological quantum numbers filling factors. We verify that the Hall states have stronger entanglement between ocuppation-numbers and so we can consider this resource for fracton quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0310065
title: Statistical properties of twin beams generated in spontaneous parametric downconversion
authors: J. Perina Jr, O. Haderka, M. Hamar
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310065
abstract: Measurement of photon-number statistics of fields composed of photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric downcoversion pumped by strong ultrashort pulses is described. Final detection quantum efficiencies, noises as well as possible loss of one or both photons from a pair are taken into account. Measured data provided by an intensified single-photon CCD camera are analyzed along the developed model. The joint signal-idler photon-number distribution is obtained using the expectation maximization algorithm. Covariance of the signal and idler photon-numbers equals 80 %. Statistics of the generated photon pairs are identified to be Poissonian in our case. Distribution of the integrated intensities of the signal and idler fields shows strong correlations between the fields. Negative values of this distribution occurring in some regions clearly demonstrate a nonclassical character of the light composed of photon pairs.

id: quant-ph/0310066
title: A high-efficiency quantum non-demolition single photon number resolving detector
authors: W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, R. G. Beausoleil, T. P. Spiller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Significantly revised. More discussion on the potential experimental realisation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 033819 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310066
abstract: We discuss a novel approach to the problem of creating a photon number resolving detector using the giant Kerr nonlinearities available in electromagnetically induced transparency. Our scheme can implement a photon number quantum non-demolition measurement with high efficiency ($\sim$99%) using less than 1600 atoms embedded in a dielectric waveguide.

id: quant-ph/0310067
title: Can Quantum Cryptography Imply Quantum Mechanics?
authors: John A. Smolin
comments: 5 pages revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310067
abstract: It has been suggested that the ability of quantum mechanics to allow secure distribution of secret key together with its inability to allow bit commitment or communicate superluminally might be sufficient to imply the rest of quantum mechanics. I argue using a toy theory as a counterexample that this is not the case. I further discuss whether an additional axiom (key storage) brings back the quantum nature of the theory.

id: quant-ph/0310068
title: High-multipolar effects on the Casimir force: the non-retarded limit
authors: Cecilia Noguez, Carlos E. Roman-Velazquez, Raul Esquivel-Sirvent, Carlos Villarreal
comments: 7 pages including 2 figures. Submitted to Europjysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 67, 191 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310068
abstract: We calculate exactly the Casimir force or dispersive force, in the non-retarded limit, between a spherical nanoparticle and a substrate beyond the London's or dipolar approximation. We find that the force is a non-monotonic function of the distance between the sphere and the substrate, such that, it is enhanced by several orders of magnitude as the sphere approaches the substrate. Our results do not agree with previous predictions like the Proximity theorem approach.

id: quant-ph/0310069
title: Stability of holonomic quantum computations
authors: V.I. Kuvshinov, A.V. Kuzmin
comments: 7 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, vol.316 (2003) pp.391-394
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310069
abstract: We study the stability of holonomic quantum computations with respect to errors in assignment of control parameters. The general expression for fidelity is obtaned. In the small errors limit the simple formulae for the fidelity decrease rate is derived.

id: quant-ph/0310070
title: Uncertainty Relations for Joint Measurements of Noncommuting Observables
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 7 pages, Revtex4. Presented at A Satellite Workshop to EQIS'03: Non-locality of Quantum Mechanics and Statistical Inference, Kyoto, Japan, September 8-9, 2003
journal: Phys. Lett. A 320, 367-374 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310070
abstract: Universally valid uncertainty relations are proven in a model independent formulation for inherent and unavoidable extra noises in arbitrary joint measurements on single systems, from which Heisenber's original uncertainty relation is proven valid for any joint measurements with statistically independent noises.

id: quant-ph/0310071
title: Uncertainty principle for quantum instruments and computing
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 13 pages, Revtex4
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) 1, 569--588 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310071
abstract: Recently, universally valid uncertainty relations have been established to set a precision limit for any instruments given a disturbance constraint in a form more general than the one originally proposed by Heisenberg. One of them leads to a quantitative generalization of the Wigner-Araki-Yanase theorem on the precision limit of measurements under conservation laws. Applying this, a rigorous lower bound is obtained for the gate error probability of physical implementations of Hadamard gates on a standard qubit of a spin 1/2 system by interactions with control fields or ancilla systems obeying the angular momentum conservation law.

id: quant-ph/0310072
title: Perfect correlations between noncommuting observables
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 7 pages, Revtex4, v3: added a section on conventional models of measurements
journal: Phys. Lett. A 335, 11-19 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310072
abstract: The problem as to when two noncommuting observables are considered to have the same value arises commonly, but shows a nontrivial difficulty. Here, an answer is given by establishing the notion of perfect correlations between noncommuting observables, and applied to obtain a criterion for precise measurements of a given observable in a given state.

id: quant-ph/0310073
title: Probabilities as Measures of Information
authors: Francis G. Perey
comments: 20 pages, LateX, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310073
abstract: We analyze the notion that physical theories are quantitative and testable by observations in experiments. This leads us to propose a new, Bayesian, interpretation of probabilities in physics that unifies their current use in classical physical theories, experimental physics and quantum mechanics. Probabilities are the result of quantifying the domain of possibilities that results when we interpret observations within the framework of a physical theory. They could also be said to be measures of information used to make predictions based upon a physical theory.

id: quant-ph/0310074
title: Energy Dissipation in Quantum Computers
authors: A.Granik, G.Chapline
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310074
abstract: A method is described for calculating the heat generated in a quantum computer due to loss of quantum phase information. Amazingly enough, this heat generation can take place at zero temperature. and may explain why it is impossible to extract energy from vacuum fluctuations. Implications for optical computers and quantum cosmology are also briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310075
title: Symmetric Informationally Complete Quantum Measurements
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Robin Blume-Kohout, A. J. Scott, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45, 2171 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310075
abstract: We consider the existence in arbitrary finite dimensions d of a POVM comprised of d^2 rank-one operators all of whose operator inner products are equal. Such a set is called a ``symmetric, informationally complete'' POVM (SIC-POVM) and is equivalent to a set of d^2 equiangular lines in C^d. SIC-POVMs are relevant for quantum state tomography, quantum cryptography, and foundational issues in quantum mechanics. We construct SIC-POVMs in dimensions two, three, and four. We further conjecture that a particular kind of group-covariant SIC-POVM exists in arbitrary dimensions, providing numerical results up to dimension 45 to bolster this claim.

id: quant-ph/0310076
title: Quantum Public-Key Cryptosystem Based on Classical NP-Complete Problem
authors: Li Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310076
abstract: We present a quantum public-key cryptosystem based on a classical NP-complete problem related with finding a code word of a given weight in a linear binary code.

id: quant-ph/0310077
title: Certain quantum key distribution achieved by using Bell states
authors: Chong Li, He-Shan Song, Ling Zhou, Chun-Feng Wu
comments: 6 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 4, No. 6 (2006) 1-8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310077
abstract: A new protocol for quantum key distribution based on entanglement swapping is presented. In this protocol, both certain key and random key can be generated without any loss of security. It is this property differs our protocol from the previous ones. The rate of generated key bits per particle is improved which can approach six bits (4 random bits and 2 certain bits) per four particles.

id: quant-ph/0310078
title: Quantum message authentication based on classical NP-complete problem
authors: Li Yang, Lei Hu, Deng-Guo Feng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310078
abstract: This note presents a method to authenticate a quantum message based on classical SN-S authentication code and the computations between different quantum registers. If the pre-coding generator matrix in SN-S code is public, the quantum scheme is a public-key data integrity scheme; if it is secret, the quantum scheme is a hybrid data origin authentication scheme.

id: quant-ph/0310079
title: Comparative study of quantum anharmonic potentials
authors: Paolo Amore, Alfredo Aranda, Arturo De Pace, Jorge A. Lopez
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures and 2 tables; revtex4
journal: Physics Letters A 329, 451-458 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310079
abstract: We perform a study of various anharmonic potentials using a recently developed method. We calculate both the wave functions and the energy eigenvalues for the ground and first excited states of the quartic, sextic and octic potentials with high precision, comparing the results with other techniques available in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0310080
title: Two-Point Attack on the Two Nonorthogonal State QKD Protocol over a Fiber-Optic Channel
authors: Li Yang, Ling-An Wu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310080
abstract: We suggest here a two-point eavesdropping strategy to two nonorthogonal states protocol of quantum key distribution over a fiber-optic channel. Suppose that the single-photon sources and detectors of Alice, Bob and Eves are ideal ones, the two-point attack can break the two nonorthogonal states protocol if the distance between Alice and Bob is sufficiently long. For single-photon type B92 protocol, the upper bound of distance is about 30 kilometers. It is interesting that Bennett's original multi-photon protocol is secure against both two-point attack and beam splitting attack, even if the protocol is realized with weak pulse source.

id: quant-ph/0310081
title: The Uncertainty Relation in "Which-Way" Experiments: How to Observe Directly the Momentum Transfer using Weak Values
authors: J. L. Garretson, H. M. Wiseman, D. T. Pope, D. T. Pegg
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, submitted to J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6, s506 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310081
abstract: A which-way measurement destroys the twin-slit interference pattern. Bohr argued that distinguishing between two slits a distance s apart gives the particle a random momentum transfer \wp of order h/s. This was accepted for more than 60 years, until Scully, Englert and Walther (SEW) proposed a which-way scheme that, they claimed, entailed no momentum transfer. Storey, Tan, Collett and Walls (STCW) in turn proved a theorem that, they claimed, showed that Bohr was right. This work reviews and extends a recent proposal [Wiseman, Phys. Lett. A 311, 285 (2003)] to resolve the issue using a weak-valued probability distribution for momentum transfer, P_wv(\wp). We show that P_wv(\wp) must be wider than h/6s. However, its moments can still be zero because P_wv(\wp) is not necessarily positive definite. Nevertheless, it is measurable in a way understandable to a classical physicist. We introduce a new measure of spread for P_wv(\wp): half of the unit-confidence interval, and conjecture that it is never less than h/4s. For an idealized example with infinitely narrow slits, the moments of P_wv(\wp) and of the momentum distributions are undefined unless a process of apodization is used. We show that by considering successively smoother initial wave functions, successively more moments of both P_wv(\wp) and the momentum distributions become defined. For this example the moments of P_wv(\wp) are zero, and these are equal to the changes in the moments of the momentum distribution. We prove that this relation holds for schemes in which the moments of P_wv(\wp) are non-zero, but only for the first two moments. We also compare these moments to those of two other momentum-transfer distributions and \hat{p}_f-\hat{p}_i. We find agreement between all of these, but again only for the first two moments.

id: quant-ph/0310082
title: Invitation to the "Spooky" Quantum Phase-Locking Effect and its Link to 1/F Fluctuations
authors: Michel Planat
comments: submitted to the journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, March 13, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310082
abstract: An overview of the concept of phase-locking at the non linear, geometric and quantum level is attempted, in relation to finite resolution measurements in a communication receiver and its 1/f noise. Sine functions, automorphic functions and cyclotomic arithmetic are respectively used as the relevant trigonometric tools. The common point of the three topics is found to be the Mangoldt function of prime number theory as the generator of low frequency noise in the coupling coefficient, the scattering coefficient and in quantum critical statistical states. Huyghens coupled pendulums, the Adler equation, the Arnold map, continued fraction expansions, discrete Mobius transformations, Ford circles, coherent and squeezed phase states, Ramanujan sums, the Riemann zeta function and Bost and Connes KMS states are some but a few concepts which are used synchronously in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0310083
title: Projective Measurement Scheme for Solid-State Qubits
authors: L. Tian, S. Lloyd, T. P. Orlando
comments: published, PRB 67, R220505 (2003)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 67, 220505(R) (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310083
abstract: We present an effective measurement scheme for the solid-state qubits that does {\bf not} introduce extra decoherence to the qubits until the measurement is switched on by a resonant pulse. The resonant pulse then maximally entangles the qubit with the detector. The scheme has the feature of being projective, noiseless, and switchable. This method is illustrated on the superconducting persistent-current qubit, but can be applied to the measurement of a wide variety of solid-state qubits, the {\bf direct} detection of the electromagnetic signals of which gives poor resolution of the qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0310084
title: Single-atom trajectories in higher-order transverse modes of a high-finesse optical cavity
authors: T. Puppe, P. Maunz, T. Fischer, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 6 pages, d figures
journal: Physica Scripta T112, 7--12 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310084
abstract: Transits of single atoms through higher-order Hermite-Gaussian transverse modes of a high-finesse optical cavity are observed. Compared to the fundamental Gaussian mode, the use of higher-order modes increases the information on the atomic position. The experiment is a first experimental step towards the realisation of an atomic kaleidoscope.

id: quant-ph/0310085
title: Quantum theory of multimode fields: Applications to optical resonators
authors: Carlos Viviescas, Gregor Hackenbroich
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures, corrected typos
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6, 211 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310085
abstract: A recently developed technique for the system--and--bath quantization of open optical cavities is applied to three resonator geometries: A one dimensional dielectric, a Fabry--Perot resonator, and a dielectric disk. The system--and--bath Hamiltonian for these geometries is derived starting from Maxwell's equations and employed to compute the electromagnetic fields, the resonances, and the cavity gain factors. Exact agreement is found with standard quantization methods based on a modes--of--the--universe description. Our analysis provides a microscopic justification for the system--and--bath quantization even in the regime of spectrally overlapping modes.

id: quant-ph/0310086
title: Problems and Aspects of Energy-Driven Wavefunction Collapse Models
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310086
abstract: Four problematic circumstances are considered, involving models which describe dynamical wavefunction collapse toward energy eigenstates, for which it is shown that wavefunction collapse of macroscopic objects does not work properly. In one case, a common particle position measuring situation, the apparatus evolves to a superposition of macroscopically distinguishable states (does not collapse to one of them as it should) because each such particle/apparatus/environment state has precisely the same energy spectrum. Second, assuming an experiment takes place involving collapse to one of two possible outcomes which is permanently recorded, it is shown in general that this can only happen in the unlikely case that the two apparatus states corresponding to the two outcomes have disjoint energy spectra. Next, the progressive narrowing of the energy spectrum due to the collapse mechanism is considered. This has the effect of broadening the time evolution of objects as the universe evolves. Two examples, one involving a precessing spin, the other involving creation of an excited state followed by its decay, are presented in the form of paradoxes. In both examples, the microscopic behavior predicted by standard quantum theory is significantly altered under energy-driven collapse, but this alteration is not observed by an apparatus when it is included in the quantum description. The resolution involves recognition that the statevector describing the apparatus does not collapse, but evolves to a superposition of macroscopically different states.

id: quant-ph/0310087
title: Entanglement and purity of two-mode Gaussian states in noisy channels
authors: Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati, Matteo G. A. Paris, Silvio De Siena
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 022318 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310087
abstract: We study the evolution of purity, entanglement and total correlations of general two--mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems in arbitrary uncorrelated Gaussian environments. The time evolution of purity, Von Neumann entropy, logarithmic negativity and mutual information is analyzed for a wide range of initial conditions. In general, we find that a local squeezing of the bath leads to a faster degradation of purity and entanglement, while it can help to preserve the mutual information between the modes.

id: quant-ph/0310088
title: Superselection rules and quantum protocols
authors: Alexei Kitaev, Dominic Mayers, John Preskill
comments: 22 pages, REVTeX
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 052326
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310088
abstract: We show that superselection rules do not enhance the information-theoretic security of quantum cryptographic protocols. Our analysis employs two quite different methods. The first method uses the concept of a reference system -- in a world subject to a superselection rule, unrestricted operations can be simulated by parties who share access to a reference system with suitable properties. By this method, we prove that if an n-party protocol is secure in a world subject to a superselection rule, then the security is maintained even if the superselection rule is relaxed. However, the proof applies only to a limited class of superselection rules, those in which the superselection sectors are labeled by unitary irreducible representations of a compact symmetry group. The second method uses the concept of the format of a message sent between parties -- by verifying the format, the recipient of a message can check whether the message could have been sent by a party who performed charge-conserving operations. By this method, we prove that protocols subject to general superselection rules (including those pertaining to nonabelian anyons in two dimensions) are no more secure than protocols in the unrestricted world. However, the proof applies only to two-party protocols. Our results show in particular that, if no assumptions are made about the computational power of the cheater, then secure quantum bit commitment and strong quantum coin flipping with arbitrarily small bias are impossible in a world subject to superselection rules.

id: quant-ph/0310089
title: Efficient simulation of one-dimensional quantum many-body systems
authors: G. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 040502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310089
abstract: We present a numerical method to simulate the time evolution, according to a Hamiltonian made of local interactions, of quantum spin chains and systems alike. The efficiency of the scheme depends on the amount of the entanglement involved in the simulated evolution. Numerical analysis indicate that this method can be used, for instance, to efficiently compute time-dependent properties of low-energy dynamics of sufficiently regular but otherwise arbitrary one-dimensional quantum many-body systems.

id: quant-ph/0310090
title: Impossibility of distant indirect measurement of the quantum Zeno effect
authors: M.Hotta, M.Morikawa
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 69, 052114 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310090
abstract: We critically study the possibility of quantum Zeno effect for indirect measurements. If the detector is prepared to detect the emitted signal from the core system, and the detector does not reflect the signal back to the core system, then we can prove the decay probability of the system is not changed by the continuous measurement of the signal and the quantum Zeno effect never takes place. This argument also applies to the quantum Zeno effect for accelerated two-level systems, unstable particle decay, etc.

id: quant-ph/0310091
title: Experimental Realization of the Quantum Box Problem
authors: K.J. Resch, J.S. Lundeen, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 324 vol.2-3, 125 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310091
abstract: The three-box problem is a gedankenexperiment designed to elucidate some interesting features of quantum measurement and locality. A particle is prepared in a particular superposition of three boxes, and later found in a different (but nonorthogonal) superposition. It was predicted that appropriate "weak" measurements of particle position in the interval between preparation and post-selection would find the particle in two different places, each with certainty. We verify these predictions in an optical experiment and address the issues of locality and of negative probability.

id: quant-ph/0310092
title: Duality and Quantum Mechanics
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: Presented at the Workshop in honour of Prof. J. A. de Azcarraga, june 9-11, 2003, Salamanca, Spain
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310092
abstract: This Festschrift in honour of J. A. de Azcarraga gives an introduction to the concept of duality, i.e., to the relativity of the notion of a quantum, in the context of the quantum mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom. Although the concept of duality arises in string and M--theory, Vafa has argued that it should also have a counterpart in quantum mechanics, before moving on to second quantisation, fields, strings and branes. We illustrate our analysis with the case when classical phase space is complex projective space, but our conclusions can be generalised to other complex, symplectic phase spaces, both compact and noncompact.

id: quant-ph/0310093
title: Sufficient conditions of entanglement for tripartite and higher dimensional multipartite qubit density matrixes
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: REVTex, 5 pages, no figure
journal: Inter. J. Quant. Infom. 3(2005)405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310093
abstract: In this paper we give the new sufficient conditions of entanglement for multipartite qubit density matrixes. We discuss in detail the case for tripartite qubit density matrixes. As a criterion in concrete application, its steps are quite simple and easy to operate. Some examples and discussions are given. PACC numbers: 03.67.Mn, 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Hk.

id: quant-ph/0310094
title: One-spin quantum logic gates from exchange interactions and a global magnetic field
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Daniel A. Lidar, Mark Friesen
comments: 4 pages, incl. 1 figure. This significantly modified version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 030501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310094
abstract: It has been widely assumed that one-qubit gates in spin-based quantum computers suffer from severe technical difficulties. We show that one-qubit gates can in fact be generated using only modest and presently feasible technological requirements. Our solution uses only global magnetic fields and controllable Heisenberg exchange interactions, thus circumventing the need for single-spin addressing.

id: quant-ph/0310095
title: Loss of coherence in double-slit diffraction experiments
authors: A. S. Sanz, F. Borondo, M. J. Bastiaans
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042103 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310095
abstract: The effects of incoherence and decoherence in the double--slit experiment are studied using both optical and quantum--phenomenological models. The results are compared with experimental data obtained with cold neutrons.

id: quant-ph/0310096
title: A quantum trajectory description of decoherence
authors: A. S. Sanz, F. Borondo
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 44, 319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310096
abstract: A complete theoretical treatment in many problems relevant to physics, chemistry, and biology requires considering the action of the environment over the system of interest. Usually the environment involves a relatively large number of degrees of freedom, this making the problem numerically intractable from a purely quantum-mechanical point of view. To overcome this drawback, a new class of quantum trajectories is proposed. These trajectories, based on the same grounds as Bohmian ones, are solely associated to the system reduced density matrix, since the evolution of the environment degrees of freedom is not considered explicitly. Within this approach, environment effects come into play through a time-dependent damping factor that appears in the system equations of motion. Apart from their evident computational advantage, this type of trajectories also results very insightful to understand the system decoherence. In particular, here we show the usefulness of these trajectories analyzing decoherence effects in interference phenomena, taking as a working model the well-known double-slit experiment.

id: quant-ph/0310097
title: The Minimum Distance Problem for Two-Way Entanglement Purification
authors: Andris Ambainis, Daniel Gottesman
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX. v2: New title, minor corrections and clarifications, some new references. v3: One more small correction. v4: More small clarifications, final version to appear in IEEE Trans. Info. Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory vol. 52, issue 2, 748-753 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310097
abstract: Entanglement purification takes a number of noisy EPR pairs and processes them to produce a smaller number of more reliable pairs. If this is done with only a forward classical side channel, the procedure is equivalent to using a quantum error-correcting code (QECC). We instead investigate entanglement purification protocols with two-way classical side channels (2-EPPs) for finite block sizes. In particular, we consider the analog of the minimum distance problem for QECCs, and show that 2-EPPs can exceed the quantum Hamming bound and the quantum Singleton bound. We also show that 2-EPPs can achieve the rate k/n = 1 - (t/n) \log_2 3 - h(t/n) - O(1/n) (asymptotically reaching the quantum Hamming bound), where the EPP produces at least k good pairs out of n total pairs with up to t arbitrary errors, and h(x) = -x \log_2 x - (1-x) \log_2 (1-x) is the usual binary entropy. In contrast, the best known lower bound on the rate of QECCs is the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound k/n \geq 1 - (2t/n) \log_2 3 - h(2t/n). Indeed, in some regimes, the known upper bound on the asymptotic rate of good QECCs is strictly below our lower bound on the achievable rate of 2-EPPs.

id: quant-ph/0310098
title: The Meaning of Bell's Theorem
authors: Anthony Rizzi
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure in png format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310098
abstract: The import of Bell's Theorem is elucidated. The theorem's proof is illustrated both heuristically and in mathematical detail in a pedagogical fashion. In the same fashion, it is shown that the proof is correct mathematically, but it doesn't require, as is usually thought, one to abandon locality or realism.

id: quant-ph/0310099
title: Reaching optimally oriented molecular states by laser kicks
authors: D. Sugny, A. Keller, O. Atabek, D. Daems, C. M. Dion, S. Gu¨¦rin, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 033402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310099
abstract: We present a strategy for post-pulse orientation aiming both at efficiency and maximal duration within a rotational period. We first identify the optimally oriented states which fulfill both requirements. We show that a sequence of half-cycle pulses of moderate intensity can be devised for reaching these target states.

id: quant-ph/0310100
title: Quantification of quantum correlation of ensemble of states
authors: Michal Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310100
abstract: We present first measure of quantum correlation of an ensemble of multiparty states. It is based on the idea of minimal entropy production in a locally distinguishable basis measurement. It is shown to be a relative entropy distance from a set of ensembles. For bipartite ensembles, which span the whole bipartite Hilbert space, the measure is bounded below by average relative entropy of entanglement. We naturally obtain a monotonicity axiom for any measure of quantum correlation of ensembles. We evaluate this measure for certain cases. Subsequently we use this measure to propose a complementarity relation between our measure and the accessible information obtainable about the ensemble under local operations. The measure along with the monotonicity axiom are well-defined even for the case of a single system, where the complementarity relation is seen to be yet another face of the "Heisenberg uncertainty relation".

id: quant-ph/0310101
title: A note on information theoretic characterizations of physical theories
authors: Hans Halvorson
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX, Contribution to Rob Clifton memorial conference
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 35, 277--293 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310101
abstract: Clifton, Bub, and Halvorson [Foundations of Physics 33, 1561 (2003)] have recently argued that quantum theory is characterized by its satisfaction of three information-theoretic axioms. However, it is not difficult to construct apparent counterexamples to the CBH characterization theorem. In this paper, we discuss the limits of the characterization theorem, and we provide some technical tools for checking whether a theory (specified in terms of the convex structure of its state space) falls within these limits.

id: quant-ph/0310102
title: Multi-Component Bell Inequality and its Violation for Continuous Variable Systems
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, L. C. Kwek, D. Kaszlikowski, M. Zukowski, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure, rewritten version, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310102
abstract: Multi-component correlation functions are developed by utilizing d-outcome measurements. Based on the multi-component correlation functions, we propose a Bell inequality for bipartite d-dimensional systems. Violation of the Bell inequality for continuous variable (CV) systems is investigated. The violation of the original Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen state can exceed the Cirel'son bound, the maximal violation is 2.96981. For finite value of squeezing parameter, violation strength of CV states increases with dimension d. Numerical results show that the violation strength of CV states with finite squeezing parameter is stronger than that of original EPR state.

id: quant-ph/0310103
title: Dynamical symmetries and well-localized hydrogenic wave packets
authors: Vladimir Zverev, Boris Rubinstein
comments: 6 pages
journal: Proceedings of Institute of Mathematics of NAS of Ukraine, Vol. 50, Part 2 (2004) 1018-1023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310103
abstract: A new method for constructing of composite coherent states of the hydrogen atom, based on the dynamical group approach and various schemes of reduction to subgroups, is presented. A wide class of well-localized (Gaussian) hydrogenic wave packets for circular and elliptic orbits is found using the saddle-point method.

id: quant-ph/0310104
title: Using Conditional Phase Change Operations to Probe the Nature of Quantum Mechanical Systems
authors: Sarnath Ramnath, Kevin Haglin
comments: 7 pages Latex, 3 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310104
abstract: Recent developments in quantum computing suggest that it could be possible to make conditional changes to the state of a quantum mechanical system without resorting to classical observation. It is accomplished through collective response of atoms comprising a lattice for the system and involves relative phase adjustments only. We exploit this possibility and describe experimental designs that could help elucidate quantum mechanical properties of these systems and distinguish between interpretations.

id: quant-ph/0310105
title: Selecting ensembles for rare earth quantum computation
authors: J. J. Longdell M. J. Sellars
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310105
abstract: We discuss the issues surrounding the implementation of quantum computation in rare-earth-ion doped solids. We describe a practical scheme for two qubit gate operations which utilise experimentally available interactions between the qubits. Possibilities for a scalable quantum computer are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310106
title: Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians, indefinite inner product spaces and their symmetries
authors: A. Blasi, G. Scolarici, L. Solombrino
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310106
abstract: We extend the definition of generalized parity $P$, charge-conjugation $C$ and time-reversal $T$ operators to nondiagonalizable pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians, and we use these generalized operators to describe the full set of symmetries of a pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian according to a fourfold classification. In particular we show that $TP$ and $CTP$ are the generators of the antiunitary symmetries; moreover, a necessary and sufficient condition is provided for a pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian $H$ to admit a $P$-reflecting symmetry which generates the $P$-pseudounitary and the $P$-pseudoantiunitary symmetries. Finally, a physical example is considered and some hints on the $P$-unitary evolution of a physical system are also given.

id: quant-ph/0310107
title: On the Quantum Query Complexity of Detecting Triangles in Graphs
authors: Mario Szegedy
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310107
abstract: We show that in the quantum query model the complexity of detecting a triangle in an undirected graph on $n$ nodes can be done using $O(n^{1+{3\over 7}}\log^{2}n)$ quantum queries. The same complexity bound applies for outputting the triangle if there is any. This improves upon the earlier bound of $O(n^{1+{1\over 2}})$.

id: quant-ph/0310108
title: Image formation by manipulation of the entangled angular spectrum
authors: D. P. Caetano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: Submitted for publication in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310108
abstract: We demonstrate theoretical and experimentally how it is possible to manipulate an entangled angular spectrum of twin beams, in order to reconstruct correlated images with coincidence detection. The entangled angular spectrum comes from the pump and the image is obtained only if signal and idler are properly treated.

id: quant-ph/0310109
title: Construction of entangled states with positive partial transposes based on indecomposable positive linear maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 12 pages, a continuation of the paper(quant-ph/0305005).accepted for publication in Phys. Letters A.(revised: 1.The title was changed. 2.Abstract and introduction were rewritten)
journal: Phys. Letters. A, 325/5-6, 315--324 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310109
abstract: We show that every entanglement with positive partial transpose may be constructed from an indecomposable positive linear map between matrix algebras.

id: quant-ph/0310110
title: Superluminal solutions to the Klein-Gordon equation and a causality problem
authors: A.A.Borghardt, M.A.Belogolovskii, D.Ya.Karpenko
comments: to be published in Physics Letters A, an additional reference to the paper by Buttiker and Washburn
journal: Physics Letters A, vol. 318, pages 342-344 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310110
abstract: We present a new axially symmetric monochromatic free-space solution to the Klein-Gordon equation propagating with a superluminal group velocity and show that it gives rise to an imaginary part of the causal propagator outside the light cone. We address the question about causality of the spacelike paths and argue that the signal with a well-defined wavefront formed by the superluminal modes would propagate in vacuum with the light speed.

id: quant-ph/0310111
title: Optical bistability in sideband output modes induced by squeezed vacuum
authors: L. P. Maia, G. A. Prataviera, S. S. Mizrahi
comments: Replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 053802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310111
abstract: We consider $N$ two-level atoms in a ring cavity interacting with a broadband squeezed vacuum centered at frequency $\omega_{s}$ and an input monochromatic driving field at frequency $\omega $. We show that, besides the central mode (at $\o$), many other {\em sideband modes} are produced at the output, with frequencies shifted from $\omega $ by multiples of $ 2(\omega -\omega_{s})$. Here we analyze the optical bistability of the two nearest sideband modes, one red-shifted and the other blue-shifted.

id: quant-ph/0310112
title: Testing quantum correlations with nuclear probes
authors: S. Hamieh, H.J. Woertche, C. Baeumer, A.M. van den Berg, D. Frekers, M.N. Harakeh, J. Heyse, M. Hunyadi, M.A. de Huu, C. Polachic, S. Rakers, C. Rangacharyulu
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310112
abstract: We investigated the feasibility of quantum-correlation measurements in nuclear physics experiments. In a first approach, we measured spin correlations of singlet-spin (1S0) proton pairs, which were generated in 1H(d,2He) and 12C(d,2He) nuclear charge-exchange reactions. The experiment was optimized for a clean preparation of the 2He singlet state and offered a 2pi detection geometry for both protons in the exit channel. Our results confirm the effectiveness of the setup for theses studies, despite limitations of a small data sample recorded during the feasibility studies.

id: quant-ph/0310113
title: Extracting joint weak values with local, single-particle measurements
authors: K.J. Resch, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 130402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310113
abstract: Weak measurement is a new technique which allows one to describe the evolution of postselected quantum systems. It appears to be useful for resolving a variety of thorny quantum paradoxes, particularly when used to study properties of pairs of particles. Unfortunately, such nonlocal or joint observables often prove difficult to measure weakly in practice (for instance, in optics -- a common testing ground for this technique -- strong photon-photon interactions would be needed). Here we derive a general, experimentally feasible, method for extracting these values from correlations between single-particle observables.

id: quant-ph/0310114
title: The Contextual Quantization and the Principle of Complementarity of Probabilities
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Sergei Kozyrev
comments: In the first version we used a formulation of the principle of complementarity which is rather common, but it does not correspond to the original Bohr's formulation (Prof. A. Plotnitsky paid our attention to this problem and presented to us the original Bohr's formulation). We wrote about "full information" and N. Bohr wrote about "possible information." Our formulation is natural for a realists interpretation of quantum mechanics (e.g. Vaxjo interpretation) and not for the orthodox Copenhagen interpretation. In this version we use the original Bohr's formulation
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics. 2005. V.12. N.3. P.303-318
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310114
abstract: The Principle of Complementarity of Probabilities based on of noncommutative probability is introduced.

id: quant-ph/0310115
title: The Question Whether an Energy Gap Does Exist in Helium II or Not
authors: I.M.Yurin
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310115
abstract: The present paper makes an assumption on the existence of an energy gap in Helium II. An experiment is proposed to verify this assumption.

id: quant-ph/0310116
title: On separability of quantum states and the violation of Bell-type inequalities
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 13 pages, extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042102 (2004); also in Virtual J. Quantum Information 4 (2004), No 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310116
abstract: In contrast to the wide-spread opinion that any separable quantum state satisfies every classical probabilistic constraint, we present a simple example where a separable quantum state does not satisfy the original Bell inequality although the latter inequality, in its perfect correlation form, is valid for all joint classical measurements. In a very general setting, we discuss inequalities for joint experiments upon a bipartite quantum system in a separable state. We derive quantum analogues of the original Bell inequality and specify the conditions sufficient for a separable state to satisfy the original Bell inequality. We introduce the extended CHSH inequality and prove that, for any separable quantum state, this inequality holds for a variety of linear combinations.

id: quant-ph/0310117
title: Dynamical decoherence in a cavity with a large number of two-level atoms
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 9 pages, no figures. This submission substitutes paper quant-ph/0212148 that was withdrawn. Version accepted for publication in Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 37 (2004) 1273-1278
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310117
abstract: We consider a large number of two-level atoms interacting with the mode of a cavity in the rotating-wave approximation (Tavis-Cummings model). We apply the Holstein-Primakoff transformation to study the model in the limit of the number of two-level atoms, all in their ground state, becoming very large. The unitary evolution that we obtain in this approximation is applied to a macroscopic superposition state showing that, when the coherent states forming the superposition are enough distant, then the state collapses on a single coherent state describing a classical radiation mode. This appear as a true dynamical effect that could be observed in experiments with cavities.

id: quant-ph/0310118
title: Entanglement distillation for three-particle W class states
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Ming Yang
comments: 15 pages 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics, volume 36, issue 21, pages 4245 - 4253, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310118
abstract: In this paper, we propose two general entanglement distillation protocols, which can concentrate the non-maximally entangled pure W class state. The general protocols are mainly based on the unitary transformation on the auxiliary particle and one of the three entangled particles, and in the second protocol, the entanglement distillation includes two meanings, namely, extracting the concentrated tripartite entangled W state and obtaining the maximally entangled bipartite state from the garbage state, which gives no contribution to the distillation of non-maximally entangled pure W class state. We can make use of the garbage in the distillation process, and make the entanglement waste in quantum communication as small as possible. A feasible physical scheme is suggested based on the cavity QED.

id: quant-ph/0310119
title: Grandma's local realistic theory for the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger experiment
authors: Boon Leong Lan
comments: 
journal: J. Russian Laser Research, v26, 530-533 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310119
abstract: A realistic theory is constructed for the GHZ experiment. It is shown that the theory is local and it reproduces all the probabilistic predictions of quantum theory. This local realistic theory shows that GHZ had formulated Einstein's locality or no-action-at-a-distance principle incorrectly in their local realistic theory for the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0310120
title: An optimal entropic uncertainty relation in a two-dimensional Hilbert space
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto, Raffaele Romano
comments: 7 pages, Latex, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 317 (2003) 32-36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310120
abstract: We derive an optimal entropic uncertainty relation for an arbitrary pair of observables in a two-dimensional Hilbert space. Such a result, for the simple case we are considering, definitively improves all the entropic uncertainty relations which have appeared in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0310121
title: Reply to Comment on "Quantum inversion of cold atoms in a microcavity: spatial dependence"
authors: M. Abdel-Aty, A.-S. F. Obada
comments: 4 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310121
abstract: The question raised by [Bastin and Martin 2003 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 36, 4201] is examined and used to explain in more detail a key point of our calculations. They have sought to rebut criticisms raised by us of certain techniques used in the calculation of the off-resonance case. It is also explained why this result is not a problem for the off-resonance case, but, on the contrary, opens the door to a general situation. Their comment is based on a blatant misunderstanding of our proposal and as such is simply wrong.

id: quant-ph/0310122
title: Inequivalent classes of closed three-level systems
authors: Andre B. Klimov, Hubert de Guise, Luis L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. To appear as Brief Report in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 065801 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310122
abstract: We show here that the $\Lambda$ and V configurations of three-level atomic systems, while they have recently been shown to be equivalent for many important physical quantities when driven with classical fields [M. B. Plenio, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{62}, 015802 (2000)], are no longer equivalent when coupled via a quantum field. We analyze the physical origin of such behavior and show how the equivalence between these two configurations emerges in the semiclassical limit.

id: quant-ph/0310123
title: Reversibility of continuous-variable quantum cloning
authors: R. Filip, J. Fiurasek, P. Marek
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 012314 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310123
abstract: We analyze a reversibility of optimal Gaussian $1\to 2$ quantum cloning of a coherent state using only local operations on the clones and classical communication between them and propose a feasible experimental test of this feature. Performing Bell-type homodyne measurement on one clone and anti-clone, an arbitrary unknown input state (not only a coherent state) can be restored in the other clone by applying appropriate local unitary displacement operation. We generalize this concept to a partial LOCC reversal of the cloning and we show that this procedure converts the symmetric cloner to an asymmetric cloner. Further, we discuss a distributed LOCC reversal in optimal $1\to M$ Gaussian cloning of coherent states which transforms it to optimal $1\to M'$ cloning for $M'<M$. Assuming the quantum cloning as a possible eavesdropping attack on quantum communication link, the reversibility can be utilized to improve the security of the link even after the attack.

id: quant-ph/0310124
title: Nonlocal resources in the presence of Superselection Rules
authors: N. Schuch, F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 087904 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310124
abstract: Superselection rules severely alter the possible operations that can be implemented on a distributed quantum system. Whereas the restriction to local operations imposed by a bipartite setting gives rise to the notion of entanglement as a nonlocal resource, the superselection rule associated with particle number conservation leads to a new resource, the \emph{superselection induced variance} of local particle number. We show that, in the case of pure quantum states, one can quantify the nonlocal properties by only two additive measures, and that all states with the same measures can be asymptotically interconverted into each other by local operations and classical communication. Furthermore we discuss how superselection rules affect the concepts of majorization, teleportation and mixed state entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0310125
title: Fractal Noise in Quantum Ballistic and Diffusive Lattice Systems
authors: E. J. Amanatidis, D.E. Katsanos, S.N. Evangelou
comments: 9 pages, 8 postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310125
abstract: We demonstrate fractal noise in the quantum evolution of wave packets moving either ballistically or diffusively in periodic and quasiperiodic tight-binding lattices, respectively. For the ballistic case with various initial superpositions we obtain a space-time self-affine fractal $\Psi(x,t)$ which verify the predictions by Berry for "a particle in a box", in addition to quantum revivals. For the diffusive case self-similar fractal evolution is also obtained. These universal fractal features of quantum theory might be useful in the field of quantum information, for creating efficient quantum algorithms, and can possibly be detectable in scattering from nanostructures.

id: quant-ph/0310126
title: Quantum algorithms for phase space tomography
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto J. Roncaglia, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 9 pages, 14 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 032312 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310126
abstract: We present efficient circuits that can be used for the phase space tomography of quantum states. The circuits evaluate individual values or selected averages of the Wigner, Kirkwood and Husimi distributions. These quantum gate arrays can be programmed by initializing appropriate computational states. The Husimi circuit relies on a subroutine that is also interesting in its own right: the efficient preparation of a coherent state, which is the ground state of the Harper Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0310127
title: Quantum Mechanics without the quantum
authors: Constantin Antonopoulos, Theodossios Papadimitropoulos
comments: Corrected typos Changed content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310127
abstract: Incompatibility between conjugate variables and complementary pictures comes in two kinds, exclusive of one another. The first kind is unconditional, and the second conditional on quantum's indivisibility. We employ this distinction to study the wave-particle dualism and the energy-time uncertainty relation. Afterwards we look upon the present state of the quantum mechanical formalism. We demonstrate that the two incompatibilities are employed in the same treatment forming a "hybrid" description of the phenomena and leading to a contradiction.

id: quant-ph/0310128
title: Finite Size Universe or Perfect Squash Problem v2
authors: Ludwik Turko
comments: 15 pages, Accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 3659-3675
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310128
abstract: We give a physical notion to all self-adjoint extensions of the operator $id/dx$ in the finite interval. It appears that these extensions realize different non-unitary equivalent representations of CCR and are related to the momentum operator viewed from different inertial systems. This leads to the generalization of Galilei equivalence principle and gives a new insight into quantum correspondence rule. It is possible to get transformation laws of wave function under Galilei transformation for any scalar potential. This generalizes mass superselection rule. There is also given a new and general interpretation of a momentum representation of wave function. It appears that consistent treatment of this problem leads to the time-dependent interactions and to the abrupt switching-off of the interaction.

id: quant-ph/0310129
title: Critical fluctuations and entanglement in the nondegenerate parametric oscillator
authors: K. Dechoum, P. D. Drummond, S. Chaturvedi, M. D. Reid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310129
abstract: We present a fully quantum mechanical treatment of the nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator both below and near threshold. This is a non-equilibrium quantum system with a critical point phase-transition, that is also known to exhibit strong yet easily observed squeezing and quantum entanglement. Our treatment makes use of the positive P-representation and goes beyond the usual linearized theory. We compare our analytical results with numerical simulations and find excellent agreement. We also carry out a detailed comparison of our results with those obtained from stochastic electrodynamics, a theory obtained by truncating the equation of motion for the Wigner function, with a view to locating regions of agreement and disagreement between the two. We calculate commonly used measures of quantum behavior including entanglement, squeezing and EPR correlations as well as higher order tripartite correlations, and show how these are modified as the critical point is approached. In general, the critical fluctuations represent an ultimate limit to the possible entanglement that can be achieved in a nondegenerate parametric oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0310130
title: Dreams versus Reality: Plenary Debate Session on Quantum Computing
authors: Derek Abbott
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310130
abstract: This is a transcript of a debate on quantum computing that took place at 6:00pm, Wednesday, 4th June 2003, La Fonda Hotel, Santa Fe, USA. Transcript editor: Derek Abbott. Pro Team: Carlton M. Caves, Daniel Lidar, Howard Brandt, Alex Hamilton. Con Team: David Ferry, Julio Gea-Banacloche, Sergey Bezrukov, Laszlo Kish.

id: quant-ph/0310131
title: Understanding Time and Causality is the Key to Understanding Quantum Mechanics
authors: William R. Wharton
comments: 28 pages, no figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310131
abstract: A new interpretation of quantum mechanics, similar to the Copenhagen interpretation, is developed from time-symmetry arguments and commonly held principles concerning time and causality. These principles, which are grounded in ideas outside of quantum mechanics, suggest that the strange features and paradoxes of quantum mechanics come from backward causation, in which future events can change the past. Using these principles this paper gives a better understanding of (and reasons for) stationary states, tunneling, wave-particle duality, the measurement problem with the collapse of the state vector, Hardy's paradox, non-locality, and the EPR paradox. These are only a few of the interpretational successes, and the model will be contrasted to other popular and/or recent interpretations. Unfortunately, this model is metaphysical, without any predictive power.

id: quant-ph/0310132
title: Special relativity and reduced spin density matrices
authors: Cezary Gonera, Piotr Kosinski, Pawel Maslanka
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310132
abstract: We derive the general formula for Lorentz-transformed spin density matrix. It is shown that an appropriate Lorentz transformation can prduce totally unpolarized state out of pure one. Further properties, as depurification by an arbitrary Lorentz boost and its relation to the localization properties are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310133
title: Quantum algorithms in group theory
authors: Michael Batty, Samuel L. Braunstein, Andrew J. Duncan, Sarah Rees
comments: To appear in "Interactions Between Logic, Group Theory and Computer Science", AMS Contemporary Math. Replaced with reformated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310133
abstract: We present a survey of quantum algorithms, primarily for an intended audience of pure mathematicians. We place an emphasis on algorithms involving group theory.

id: quant-ph/0310134
title: Quantum Algorithms for the Triangle Problem
authors: Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha, Mario Szegedy
comments: Several typos are fixed, and full proofs are included. Full version of the paper accepted to SODA'05
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310134
abstract: We present two new quantum algorithms that either find a triangle (a copy of $K_{3}$) in an undirected graph $G$ on $n$ nodes, or reject if $G$ is triangle free. The first algorithm uses combinatorial ideas with Grover Search and makes $\tilde{O}(n^{10/7})$ queries. The second algorithm uses $\tilde{O}(n^{13/10})$ queries, and it is based on a design concept of Ambainis~\cite{amb04} that incorporates the benefits of quantum walks into Grover search~\cite{gro96}. The first algorithm uses only $O(\log n)$ qubits in its quantum subroutines, whereas the second one uses O(n) qubits. The Triangle Problem was first treated in~\cite{bdhhmsw01}, where an algorithm with $O(n+\sqrt{nm})$ query complexity was presented, where $m$ is the number of edges of $G$.

id: quant-ph/0310135
title: Conceptual analysis of quantum history theory
authors: Giuseppe Nistico'
comments: to appear on Physics Essays, vol. 16 No.1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310135
abstract: We give formal content to some concepts, naturally stemming from consistent history approach (CHA), which are not formalized in the standard formulation of the theory. The outcoming (extended) conceptual basis is used to perform a formal, conceptually transparent analysis of some debated questions in CHA. As results, the problems raised by contrary inferences of Kent are ruled out, whereas some prescriptions of the theory cannot be mantained.

id: quant-ph/0310136
title: An Upper Bound on the Threshold Quantum Decoherence Rate
authors: Alexander A. Razborov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310136
abstract: Let $\eta_0$ be the supremum of those $\eta$ for which every poly-size quantum circuit can be simulated by another poly-size quantum circuit with gates of fan-in $\leq 2$ that tolerates random noise independently occurring on all wires at the constant rate $\eta$. Recent fundamental results showing the principal fact $\eta_0>0$ give estimates like $\eta_0\geq 10^{-6}-10^{-4}$, whereas the only upper bound known before is $\eta_0\leq 0.74$. In this note we improve the latter bound to $\eta_0\leq 1/2$, under the assumption $QP\not\subseteq QNC^1$. More generally, we show that if the decoherence rate $\eta$ is greater than 1/2, then we can not even store a single qubit for more than logarithmic time. Our bound also generalizes to the simulating circuits allowing gates of any (constant) fan-in $k$, in which case we have $\eta_0\leq 1-1/k$.

id: quant-ph/0310137
title: Multipartite entanglement, quantum-error-correcting codes, and entangling power of quantum evolutions
authors: A. J. Scott
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052330 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310137
abstract: We investigate the average bipartite entanglement, over all possible divisions of a multipartite system, as a useful measure of multipartite entanglement. We expose a connection between such measures and quantum-error-correcting codes by deriving a formula relating the weight distribution of the code to the average entanglement of encoded states. Multipartite entangling power of quantum evolutions is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0310138
title: Revised Iterative Solution for Groundstate of Schroedinger Equation
authors: Zhao Wei-Qin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310138
abstract: A revised iterative method based on Green function defined by quadratures along a single trajectory is proposed to solve the low-lying quantum wave function for Schroedinger equation. Specially a new expression of the perturbed energy is obtained, which is much simpler than the traditional one. The method is applied to solve the unharmonic oscillator potential. The revised iteration procedure gives exactly the same result as those based on the single trajectory quadrature method. A comparison of the revised iteration method to the old one is made using the example of Stark effect. The obtained results are consistent to each other after making power expansion.

id: quant-ph/0310139
title: Entanglement and squeezing in a two-mode system: theory and experiment
authors: Vincent Josse, Aurelien Dantan, Alberto Bramati, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: submitted to J. Opt. B for a Special Issue on Foundations of Quantum Optics
journal: Journal of Optics B 6 (2004) 532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310139
abstract: We report on the generation of non separable beams produced via the interaction of a linearly polarized beam with a cloud of cold cesium atoms placed in an optical cavity. We convert the squeezing of the two linear polarization modes into quadrature entanglement and show how to find out the best entanglement generated in a two-mode system using the inseparability criterion for continuous variable [Duan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2722 (2000)]. We verify this method experimentally with a direct measurement of the inseparability using two homodyne detections. We then map this entanglement into a polarization basis and achieve polarization entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0310140
title: Bell Inequalities for Position Measurements
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: revtex4, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 70:022102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310140
abstract: Bell inequalities for position measurements are derived using the bits of the binary expansion of position-measurement results. Violations of these inequalities are obtained from the output state of the Non-degenerate Optical Parametric Amplifier.

id: quant-ph/0310141
title: Schr?dinger Quantization Problem and Neutron Stars
authors: Plamen P. Fiziev
comments: 10 pages, Latex file, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310141
abstract: We are discussing the possibility to find a proper unique conditions for an experimental study of the Schr\"odinger quantization problem in the neutron stars physics. A simple toy model for physically different quantizations is formulated and a possible physical consequences are derived.

id: quant-ph/0310142
title: Cloning of orthogonal mixed states entails irreversibility
authors: Michal Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 1.25 pages, no figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310142
abstract: Orthogonal pure states can be cloned as well as deleted. However if there is an initial disorder in the system, that is for orthogonal mixed states, one cannot perform deletion. And cloning, in such cases, necessarily produces an irreversibility, in the form of leakage of information into the environment.

id: quant-ph/0310143
title: Spheroidal analysis of the generalized MIC-Kepler system
authors: Levon Mardoyan
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl. 68 (2005) 1746-1755; Yad.Fiz. 68 (2005) 1808-1816
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310143
abstract: This paper deals with the dynamical system that generalizes the MIC-Kepler system. It is shown that the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for this generalized MIC-Kepler system can be separated in prolate spheroidal coordinates. The coefficients of the interbasis expansions between three bases (spherical, parabolic and spheroidal) are studied in detail. It is found that the coefficients for this expansion of the parabolic basis in terms of the spherical basis, and vice-versa, can be expresses through the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for the group SU(2) analytically continued to real values of their arguments. The coefficients for the expansions of the prolate spheroidal basis in terms of the spherical and parabolic bases are proved to satisfy three-term recursion relations.

id: quant-ph/0310144
title: Quantum Cryptography: Security Criteria Reexamined
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Ajay Gopinathan, Yeong Cherng Liang, L. C. Kwek, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. No substantial changes. Updated version as published in PRA
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 70, art. 032306 (5 pages) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310144
abstract: We find that the generally accepted security criteria are flawed for a whole class of protocols for quantum cryptography. This is so because a standard assumption of the security analysis, namely that the so-called square-root measurement is optimal for eavesdropping purposes, is not true in general. There are rather large parameter regimes in which the optimal measurement extracts substantially more information than the square-root measurement.

id: quant-ph/0310145
title: Depurification by Lorentz boosts
authors: P. Kosinski, P. Maslanka
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310145
abstract: We consider a particle of half-integer spin which is nonrelativistic in the rest frame. Assuming the particle is completely polarized along third axis we calculate the Bloch vector as seen by a moving observer. The result for its length is expressed in terms of dispersion of some vector operator linear in momentum. The relation with the localization properties is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0310146
title: Canonical Form and Separability of PPT States in 2x2x2xN Composite Quantum Systems
authors: S.M. Fei, X.H. Gao, X.H. Wang, Z.X. Wang, Ke Wu
comments: Latex, 8 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 40 (2003)515-518
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310146
abstract: We give a canonical form of PPT states in ${\cal C}^2 \otimes {\cal C}^2\otimes {\cal C}^2 \otimes {\cal C}^N$ with rank=$N$. From this canonical form a necessary separable condition for these states is presented.

id: quant-ph/0310147
title: Representations of Coherent States in Non-orthogonal Bases
authors: S. Twareque Ali, R. Roknizadeh, M.K. Tavassoly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310147
abstract: Starting with the canonical coherent states, we demonstrate that all the so-called nonlinear coherent states, used in the physical literature, as well as large classes of other generalized coherent states, can be obtained by changes of bases in the underlying Hilbert space. This observation leads to an interesting duality between pairs of generalized coherent states, bringing into play a Gelfand triple of (rigged) Hilbert spaces. Moreover, it is shown that in each dual pair of families of nonlinear coherent states, at least one family is related to a (generally) non-unitary projective representation of the Weyl-Heisenberg group, which can then be thought of as characterizing the dual pair.

id: quant-ph/0310148
title: Polarization phase gate with a tripod atomic system
authors: S. Rebic, D. Vitali, C. Ottaviani, P. Tombesi, M. Artoni, F. Cataliotti, R. Corbalan
comments: Corrected version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310148
abstract: We analyze the nonlinear optical response of a four-level atomic system driven into a tripod configuration. The large cross-Kerr nonlinearities that occurr in such a system are shown to produce nonlinear phase shift of order $\pi$. Such a substantial shift may be observed in a cold atomic gas in a magneto-optical trap where it coupl be fasibly exploited towards the realization of a polarization quantum phase gate. The experimental feasibility of such a gate is here examined in detail.

id: quant-ph/0310149
title: Applications of Partial Supersymmetry
authors: Donald Spector
comments: 11 pages, harvmac, no figures; typo corrected in identifying info on title page
journal: J.Phys.A37:4861-4870,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310149
abstract: I examine quantum mechanical Hamiltonians with partial supersymmetry, and explore two main applications. First, I analyze a theory with a logarithmic spectrum, and show how to use partial supersymmetry to reveal the underlying structure of this theory. This method reveals an intriguing equivalence between two formulations of this theory, one of which is one-dimensional, and the other of which is infinite-dimensional. Second, I demonstrate the use of partial supersymmetry as a tool to obtain the asymptotic energy levels in non-relativistic quantum mechanics in an exceptionally easy way. In the end, I discuss possible extensions of this work, including the possible connections between partial supersymmetry and renormalization group arguments.

id: quant-ph/0310150
title: Determination of continuous variable entanglement by purity measurements
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 3 EPS figures. Final version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92 (2004) 087901
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310150
abstract: We classify the entanglement of two--mode Gaussian states according to their degree of total and partial mixedness. We derive exact bounds that determine maximally and minimally entangled states for fixed global and marginal purities. This characterization allows for an experimentally reliable estimate of continuous variable entanglement based on measurements of purity.

id: quant-ph/0310151
title: Complete positivity and dissipative factorized dynamics: some comments
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, M. Piani, R. Romano
comments: Proceedings of the VI Workshop on Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory (Lisboa, Portugal - July 2003), Latex, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310151
abstract: After reviewing the main properties of time-evolutions of open quantum systems, some considerations about the positivity of factorized Markovian dynamics for bipartite systems are made. In particular, it is shown that the positivity of the whole time-evolution in general does not ask for the complete positivity of the single system time-evolutions, if they are allowed to differ. However, they must be completely positive if one is a small perturbation of the other, which is the typical situation for open systems in a heat bath.

id: quant-ph/0310152
title: A quantitative model for the effective decoherence of a quantum computer with imperfect unitary operations
authors: Stefano Bettelli
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures; only minor corrections, one reference added. This is the version accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310152
abstract: The problem of the quantitative degradation of the performance of a quantum computer due to noisy unitary gates (imperfect external control) is studied. It is shown that quite general conclusions on the evolution of the fidelity can be reached by using the conjecture that the set of states visited by a quantum algorithm can be replaced by the uniform (Haar) ensemble. These general results are tested numerically against quantum computer simulations of two particular periodically driven quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0310153
title: Quantum Feedback Control of Atomic Motion in an Optical Cavity
authors: Daniel A. Steck, Kurt Jacobs, Hideo Mabuchi, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Salman Habib
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; v2 includes minor corrections (no content change); v3 includes minor wording/figure changes to match published PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 (2004) 223004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310153
abstract: We study quantum feedback cooling of atomic motion in an optical cavity as a prototypical nonlinear quantum control problem. We design a feedback algorithm that can cool the atom to the ground state of the optical potential with high efficiency despite the nonlinear nature of this problem. An important ingredient is a simplified state-estimation algorithm, necessary for a real-time implementation of the feedback loop. We also describe the critical role of parity dynamics in the cooling process and present a simple theory that predicts the achievable steady-state atomic energies.

id: quant-ph/0310154
title: Transmission Spectrum of an Optical Cavity Containing N Atoms
authors: Sabrina Leslie, Neil Shenvi, Kenneth R. Brown, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310154
abstract: The transmission spectrum of a high-finesse optical cavity containing an arbitrary number of trapped atoms is presented. We take spatial and motional effects into account and show that in the limit of strong coupling, the important spectral features can be determined for an arbitrary number of atoms, N. We also show that these results have important ramifications in limiting our ability to determine the number of atoms in the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0310155
title: Classifying chemical elements and particles: from the atomic to the sub-atomic world
authors: Maurice R. Kibler
comments: published in the book "The Periodic Table: Into the 21st Century", edited by D.H. Rouvray and R.B. King (Research Studies Press, Baldock, UK, 2004) pp. 297-329
journal: Dans The Periodic Table: Into the 21st Century - Second Harry Wiener International Memorial Conference, Banff : Canada (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310155
abstract: This paper presents two facets. First, we show that the periodic table of chemical elements can be described, understood and modified (as far as its format is concerned) on the basis of group theory and more specifically by using the group SO(4,2)xSU(2). Second, we show that "periodic tables" also exist in the sub-atomic and sub-nuclear worlds and that group theory is of paramount importance for these tables. In that sense, this paper may be considered as an excursion, for non specialists, into nuclear and particle physics.

id: quant-ph/0310156
title: Quantum and classical advantage distillation are not equivalent
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Lim Jenn Yang, L. C. Kwek, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310156
abstract: We report that, for the generation of a secure cryptographic key from correlations established through a noisy quantum channel, the quantum and classical advantage distillation procedures are not equivalent, when coherent eavesdropping attacks are duly taken into account. The quantum procedure can tolerate markedly more noise in the channel than the classical procedure.

id: quant-ph/0310157
title: Low Energy Quantum System Simulation
authors: Peter Cho, Karl Berggren
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310157
abstract: A numerical method for solving Schrodinger's equation based upon a Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff (BCH) expansion of the time evolution operator is presented herein. The technique manifestly preserves wavefunction norm, and it can be applied to problems in any number of spatial dimensions. We also identify a particular dimensionless ratio of potential to kinetic energies as a key coupling constant. This coupling establishes characteristic length and time scales for a large class of low energy quantum states, and it guides the choice of step sizes in numerical work. Using the BCH method in conjunction with an imaginary time rotation, we compute low energy eigenstates for several quantum systems coupled to non-trivial background potentials. The approach is subsequently applied to the study of 1D propagating wave packets and 2D bound state time development. Failures of classical expectations uncovered by simulations of these simple systems help develop quantum intuition. Finally, we investigate the response of a Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) to a time dependent potential. We discuss how to engineer the potential's energy and time scales so that the SQUID acts as a quantum NOT gate. The notional simulation we present for this gate provides useful insight into the design of one candidate building block for a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0310158
title: Quantum-Mechanical Dualities on the Torus
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: New examples added, some precisions made
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 1733-1744
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310158
abstract: On classical phase spaces admitting just one complex-differentiable structure, there is no indeterminacy in the choice of the creation operators that create quanta out of a given vacuum. In these cases the notion of a quantum is universal, i.e., independent of the observer on classical phase space. Such is the case in all standard applications of quantum mechanics. However, recent developments suggest that the notion of a quantum may not be universal. Transformations between observers that do not agree on the notion of an elementary quantum are called dualities. Classical phase spaces admitting more than one complex-differentiable structure thus provide a natural framework to study dualities in quantum mechanics. As an example we quantise a classical mechanics whose phase space is a torus and prove explicitly that it exhibits dualities.

id: quant-ph/0310159
title: Energy-momentum operators with eigenfunctions localized along a line
authors: Shaun N. Mosley
comments: 10 pages, errors corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310159
abstract: The momentum operator $ {\bf p} = - i {\bx \nabla} $ has radial component $ {\bf \tilde p} \equiv - i {\bf \hat{r}} ({1 \over r} \partial_r r).$ We show that ${\bf \tilde p} $ is the space part of a 4-vector operator, the zero component of which is a positive operator. Their eigenfunctions are localized along an axis through the origin. The solutions of the evolution equation $ i \partial_t \psi = {\tilde p^0} \psi $ are waves along the propagation axis. Lorentz transformations of these waves yield the aberration and Doppler shift. We briefly consider spin-half and spin-one representations.

id: quant-ph/0310160
title: Optical discrimination between spatial decoherence and thermalization of a massive object
authors: C. Henkel, M. Nest, P. Domokos, R. Folman
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A, 70, p. 023810 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310160
abstract: We propose an optical ring interferometer to observe environment-induced spatial decoherence of massive objects. The object is held in a harmonic trap and scatters light between degenerate modes of a ring cavity. The output signal of the interferometer permits to monitor the spatial width of the object's wave function. It shows oscillations that arise from coherences between energy eigenstates and that reveal the difference between pure spatial decoherence and that coinciding with energy transfer and heating. Our method is designed to work with a wide variety of masses, ranging from the atomic scale to nano-fabricated structures. We give a thorough discussion of its experimental feasibility.

id: quant-ph/0310161
title: Towards photostatistics from photon-number discriminating detectors
authors: Hwang Lee, Ulvi H. Yurtsever, Pieter Kok, George M. Hockney, Christoph Adami, Samuel L. Braunstein, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51, 1517 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310161
abstract: We study the properties of a photodetector that has a number-resolving capability. In the absence of dark counts, due to its finite quantum efficiency, photodetection with such a detector can only eliminate the possibility that the incident field corresponds to a number of photons less than the detected photon number. We show that such a {\em non-photon} number-discriminating detector, however, provides a useful tool in the reconstruction of the photon number distribution of the incident field even in the presence of dark counts.

id: quant-ph/0310162
title: Coarse grained and fine dynamics in trapped ion Raman schemes
authors: B. Militello, P. Aniello, A. Messina
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A37:8177-8187,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310162
abstract: A novel result concerning Raman coupling schemes in the context of trapped ions is obtained. By means of an operator perturbative approach, it is shown that the complete time evolution of these systems (in the interaction picture) can be expressed, with a high degree of accuracy, as the product of two unitary evolutions. The first one describes the time evolution related to an effective coarse grained dynamics. The second is a suitable correction restoring the {\em fine} dynamics suppressed by the coarse graining performed to adiabatically eliminate the nonresonantly coupled atomic level.

id: quant-ph/0310163
title: Stability of quantum Fourier transformation on Ising quantum computer
authors: Giuseppe Luca Celardo, Carlos Pineda, Marko ?nidari?
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 3, 441-462 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310163
abstract: We analyze the influence of errors on the implementation of the quantum Fourier transformation (QFT) on the Ising quantum computer (IQC). Two kinds of errors are studied: (i) due to spurious transitions caused by pulses and (ii) due to external perturbation. The scaling of errors with system parameters and number of qubits is explained. We use two different procedures to fight each of them. To suppress spurious transitions we use correcting pulses (generalized $2\pi k$ method) while to suppress errors due to external perturbation we use an improved QFT algorithm. As a result, the fidelity of quantum computation is increased by several orders of magnitude and is thus stable in a much wider range of physical parameters.

id: quant-ph/0310164
title: A Critique of PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310164
abstract: We study the physical content of the PT-symmetric complex extension of quantum mechanics as proposed in Bender et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 5243 (1998) and 89, 270401 (2002), and show that as a fundamental probabilistic physical theory it is neither an alternative to nor an extension of ordinary quantum mechanics. We demonstrate that the definition of a physical observable given in the above papers is inconsistent with the dynamical aspect of the theory and offer a consistent notion of an observable.

id: quant-ph/0310165
title: Acceleration of quantum algorithms using three-qubit gates
authors: Juha J. Vartiainen, Antti O. Niskanen, Mikio Nakahara, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 10 pages, To appear in the International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 2 Year 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310165
abstract: Quantum-circuit optimization is essential for any practical realization of quantum computation, in order to beat decoherence. We present a scheme for implementing the final stage in the compilation of quantum circuits, i.e., for finding the actual physical realizations of the individual modules in the quantum-gate library. We find that numerical optimization can be efficiently utilized in order to generate the appropriate control-parameter sequences which produce the desired three-qubit modules within the Josephson charge-qubit model. Our work suggests ways in which one can in fact considerably reduce the number of gates required to implement a given quantum circuit, hence diminishing idle time and significantly accelerating the execution of quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0310166
title: Bell's inequalities detect efficient entanglement
authors: Antonio Acin, Nicolas Gisin, Lluis Masanes, Valerio Scarani
comments: 9 pages, for the Proceedings of EQIS'03 (Kyoto, Sept. 2003)
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 2, 23 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310166
abstract: We review the status of Bell's inequalities in quantum information, stressing mainly the links with quantum key distribution and distillation of entanglement. We also prove that for all the eavesdropping attacks using one qubit, and for a family of attacks of two qubits, acting on half of a maximally entangled state of two qubits, the violation of a Bell inequality implies the possibility of an efficient secret-key extraction.

id: quant-ph/0310167
title: Two independent photon pairs versus four-photon entangled states in parametric down conversion
authors: Hugues de Riedmatten, Valerio Scarani, Ivan Marcikic, Antonio Acin, Wolfgang Tittel, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: J.Mod.Opt. 51, 1637 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310167
abstract: We study the physics of four-photon states generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion with a pulsed pump field. In the limit where the coherence time of the photons t_c is much shorter than the duration of the pump pulse Delta t, the four photons can be described as two independent pairs. In the opposite limit, the four photons are in a four-particle entangled state. Any intermediate case can be characterized by a single parameter chi, which is a function of t_c/Delta t. We present a direct measurement of chi through a simple experimental setup. The full theoretical analysis is also provided.

id: quant-ph/0310168
title: How much security does Y-00 protocol provide us ?
authors: Tsuyoshi Nishioka, Toshio Hasegawa, Hirokazu Ishizuka, Kentaro Imafuku, Hideki Imai
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310168
abstract: New quantum cryptography, often called Y-00 protocol, has much higher performance than the conventional quantum cryptographies. It seems that the conventional quantum cryptographic attacks are inefficient at Y-00 protocol as its security is based on the different grounds from that of the conventional ones. We have, then, tried to cryptoanalyze Y-00 protocol in the view of cryptographic communication system. As a result, it turns out that the security of Y-00 protocol is equivalent to that of classical stream cipher.

id: quant-ph/0310169
title: Thermal entanglement of Bosonic atoms in an optical lattice with nonlinear couplings
authors: L. Zhou, X. X. Yi, H. S. Song, Y. Q. Quo
comments: 5 pagues, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310169
abstract: The thermal entanglement of two spin-1 atoms with nonlinear couplings in optical lattices is investigated in this paper. It is found that the nonlinear couplings favor the thermal entanglement creating. The dependence of the thermal entanglement in this system on the linear coupling, the nonlinear coupling, the magnetic field and temperature is also presented. The results show that the nonlinear couplings really change the feature of the thermal entanglement in the system, increasing the nonlinear coupling constant increases the critical magnetic field and the threshold temperature.

id: quant-ph/0310170
title: Field correlations and effective two level atom-cavity systems
authors: S. Rebic, A. S. Parkins, S. M. Tan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A \bf{69}, 035804 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310170
abstract: We analyse the properties of the second order correlation functions of the electromagnetic field in atom-cavity systems that approximate two-level systems. It is shown that a recently-developed polariton formalism can be used to account for all the properties of the correlations, if the analysis is extended to include two manifolds - corresponding to the ground state and the states excited by a single photon - rather than just two levels.

id: quant-ph/0310171
title: Quantum random walk on the line as a markovian process
authors: A. Romanelli, A.C. Sicardi-Schifino, R. Siri, G. Abal, A. Auyuanet, R. Donangelo
comments: few typos corrected, 13 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A Volume/Issue338/3-4 pp. 395-405 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310171
abstract: We analyze in detail the discrete--time quantum walk on the line by separating the quantum evolution equation into Markovian and interference terms. As a result of this separation, it is possible to show analytically that the quadratic increase in the variance of the quantum walker's position with time is a direct consequence of the coherence of the quantum evolution. If the evolution is decoherent, as in the classical case, the variance is shown to increase linearly with time, as expected. Furthermore we show that this system has an evolution operator analogous to that of a resonant quantum kicked rotor. As this rotator may be described through a quantum computational algorithm, one may employ this algorithm to describe the time evolution of the quantum walker.

id: quant-ph/0310172
title: Unextendible product bases and locally unconvertible bound entangled states
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: REVTeX, 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 3(6) pp. 309-329 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310172
abstract: Mutual convertibility of bound entangled states under local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC) is studied. We focus on states associated with unextendible product bases (UPB) in a system of three qubits. A complete classification of such UPBs is suggested. We prove that for any pair of UPBs $S$ and $T$ the associated bound entangled states $\rho_S$ and $\rho_T$ can not be converted to each other by LOCC, unless $S$ and $T$ coincide up to local unitaries. More specifically, there exists a finite precision $\epsilon>0$ such that for any LOCC protocol mapping $\rho_S$ into a probabilistic ensemble $(p_j,\rho_j)$, the fidelity between $\rho_T$ and any possible final state $\rho_j$ is smaller than $1-\epsilon$.

id: quant-ph/0310173
title: Entanglement production by quantum error correction in the presence of correlated environment
authors: G. De Chiara, R. Fazio, C. Macchiavello, G. M. Palma
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 67, 714 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310173
abstract: We analyze the effect of a quantum error correcting code on the entanglement of encoded logical qubits in the presence of a dephasing interaction with a correlated environment. Such correlated reservoir introduces entanglement between physical qubits. We show that for short times the quantum error correction interprets such entanglement as errors and suppresses it. However for longer time, although quantum error correction is no longer able to correct errors, it enhances the rate of entanglement production due to the interaction with the environment.

id: quant-ph/0310174
title: Combinatorial Physics, Normal Order and Model Feynman Graphs
authors: A.I. Solomon, P. Blasiak, G. Duchamp, A. Horzela, K.A. Penson
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. 12 references. Presented at the Symposium 'Symmetries in Science XIII', Bregenz, Austria, 2003
journal: Symmetries in Science Vol. XI,(Kluwer Academic Publishers), p. 527-536(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310174
abstract: The general normal ordering problem for boson strings is a combinatorial problem. In this note we restrict ourselves to single-mode boson monomials. This problem leads to elegant generalisations of well-known combinatorial numbers, such as Bell and Stirling numbers. We explicitly give the generating functions for some classes of these numbers. Finally we show that a graphical representation of these combinatorial numbers leads to sets of model field theories, for which the graphs may be interpreted as Feynman diagrams corresponding to the bosons of the theory. The generating functions are the generators of the classes of Feynman diagrams.

id: quant-ph/0310175
title: On the concept of pressure in quantum mechanics
authors: P. Borowski, J. Gemmer, G. Mahler
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 62, 629 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310175
abstract: Heat and work are fundamental concepts for thermodynamical systems. When these are scaled down to the quantum level they require appropriate embeddings. Here we show that the dependence of the particle spectrum on system size giving rise to a formal definition of pressure can, indeed, be correlated with an external mechanical degree of freedom, modelled as a spatial coordinate of a quantum oscillator. Under specific conditions this correlation is reminiscent of that occurring in the classical manometer.

id: quant-ph/0310176
title: Relaxation into equilibrium under pure Schr?dinger dynamics
authors: P. Borowski, J. Gemmer, G.Mahler
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 35, 2, 255 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310176
abstract: We consider bipartite quantum systems that are described completely by a state vector $|\Psi(t)>$ and the fully deterministic Schr\"odinger equation. Under weak constraints and without any artificially introduced decoherence or irreversibility, the smaller of the two subsystems shows thermodynamic behaviour like relaxation into an equilibrium, maximization of entropy and the emergence of the Boltzmann energy distribution. This generic behaviour results from entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0310177
title: Entanglement versus chaos in disordered spin chains
authors: L. F. Santos, G. Rigolin, C. O. Escobar
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310177
abstract: We use a Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain to investigate how chaos and localization may affect the entanglement of pairs of qubits. To measure how much entangled a pair is, we compute its concurrence, which is then analyzed in the delocalized/localized and in the chaotic/non-chaotic regimes. Our results indicate that chaos reduces entanglement and that entanglement decreases in the region of strong localization. In the transition region from a chaotic to a non-chaotic regime localization increases entanglement. We also show that entanglement is larger for strongly interacting qubits (nearest neighbors) than for weakly interacting qubits (next and next-next neighbors).

id: quant-ph/0310178
title: Competition of Two Terms in Exchange Hamiltonian for magnetic substances
authors: Wang Yongzhong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310178
abstract: The unjustifiable or wrong in the previous magnetism theories has been indicated in this paper. For a N electrons system with Heisenberg exchange integral, the correct exchange Hamilton should be of two terms, not only one as in the previous magnetism theories. The role of the minor term in the exchange Hamilton was considered. Based on the principle of superposition of state, the eigenstate of the system with Heisenberg exchange integral, the sum of a positive term and a negative term, and the energy (relative to exchange interaction) eigenvalue were attained. When the positive term is equal to the absolute value of the negative term, the system is in the spin glass state, the probabilities of parallel and antiparallel arrange for every pair of spins of electron of nearest neighbours in the system are equal. When the positive term is not equal to the absolute value of the negative term,the probabilities are not equal, and there coexist the ferromagnetic states and spin glass or antiferromagnetic state and spin glass,when ferromagnetic states and spin glass or antiferromagnetic state and spin glass coexist, the energy of the system is lower than that when only ferromagnetic states or antiferromagnetic state exists as in previous theory. Weiss ferromagnetic state or Neel anti ferromagnetic state is just a special state as the positive term is equal to zero or negative term is equal to zero.

id: quant-ph/0310179
title: Solutions of the Schr?dinger equation for the time-dependent linear potential
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: six pages; Latex; I think that this paper will be a supplement to the recent comment [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 68}, 016101 (2003)] of Bekkar {\it et al.} on Guedes's work [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 63}, 034102 (2001)] and Guedes's reply to Bekkar {\it et al.}'s comment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310179
abstract: By making use of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant theory, the solution of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the time-dependent linear potential corresponding to the quadratic-form Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant $I_{\rm q}(t)$ is obtained in the present paper. It is emphasized that in order to obtain the general solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation, one should first find the complete set of Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants. For the present quantum system with a time-dependent linear potential, the linear $I_{\rm l}(t)$ and quadratic $I_{\rm q}(t)$ (where the latter $I_{\rm q}(t)$ cannot be written as the squared of the former $I_{\rm l}(t)$, {\it i.e.}, the relation $I_{\rm q}(t)= cI_{\rm l}^{2}(t)$ does not hold true always) will form a complete set of Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants. It is also shown that the solution obtained by Bekkar {\it et al.} more recently is the one corresponding to the linear $I_{\rm l}(t)$, one of the invariants that form the complete set. In addition, we discuss some related topics regarding the comment [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 68}, 016101 (2003)] of Bekkar {\it et al.} on Guedes's work [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 63}, 034102 (2001)] and Guedes's corresponding reply [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 68}, 016102 (2003)].

id: quant-ph/0310180
title: Strategies to measure a quantum state
authors: Franz Embacher, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 32 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310180
abstract: We consider the problem of determining the mixed quantum state of a large but finite number of identically prepared quantum systems from data obtained in a sequence of ideal (von Neumann) measurements, each performed on an individual copy of the system. In contrast to previous approaches, we do not average over the possible unknown states but work out a ``typical'' probability distribution on the set of states, as implied by the experimental data. As a consequence, any measure of knowledge about the unknown state and thus any notion of ``best strategy'' (i.e. the choice of observables to be measured, and the number of times they are measured) depend on the unknown state. By learning from previously obtained data, the experimentalist re-adjusts the observable to be measured in the next step, eventually approaching an optimal strategy. We consider two measures of knowledge and exhibit all ``best'' strategies for the case of a two-dimensional Hilbert space. Finally, we discuss some features of the problem in higher dimensions and in the infinite dimensional case.

id: quant-ph/0310181
title: Anomalies of weakened decoherence criteria for quantum histories
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 3pp, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92 (2004) 170401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310181
abstract: The theory of decoherent histories is checked for the requirement of statistical independence of subsystems. Strikingly, this is satisfied only when the decoherence functional is diagonal in both its real a n d imaginary parts. In particular, the condition of consistency (or weak decoherence) required for the assignment of probabilities appears to be ruled out. The same conclusion is obtained independently, by claiming a plausible dynamical robustness of decoherent histories.

id: quant-ph/0310182
title: Dynamics of entanglement between two atomic samples with spontaneous scattering
authors: Antonio Di Lisi, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310182
abstract: We investigate the effects of spontaneous scattering on the evolution of entanglement of two atomic samples, probed by phase shift measurements on optical beams interacting with both samples. We develop a formalism of conditional quantum evolutions and present a wave function analysis implemented in numerical simulations of the state vector dynamics. This method allows to track the evolution of entanglement and to compare it with the predictions obtained when spontaneous scattering is neglected. We provide numerical evidence that the interferometric scheme to entangle atomic samples is only marginally affected by the presence of spontaneous scattering, and should thus be robust even in more realistic situations.

id: quant-ph/0310183
title: Photon number resolving detection using time-multiplexing
authors: Daryl Achilles, Christine Silberhorn, Cezary Sliwa, Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley, Michael J. Fitch, Bryan C. Jacobs, Todd B. Pittman, James D. Franson
comments: 20 pages, 14 figures, accepted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 51, 1499 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310183
abstract: Detectors that can resolve photon number are needed in many quantum information technologies. In order to be useful in quantum information processing, such detectors should be simple, easy to use, and be scalable to resolve any number of photons, as the application may require great portability such as in quantum cryptography. Here we describe the construction of a time-multiplexed detector, which uses a pair of standard avalanche photodiodes operated in Geiger mode. The detection technique is analysed theoretically and tested experimentally using a pulsed source of weak coherent light.

id: quant-ph/0310184
title: Casimir force on a piston
authors: R. M. Cavalcanti
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Final version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 065015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310184
abstract: We consider a massless scalar field obeying Dirichlet boundary conditions on the walls of a two-dimensional L x b rectangular box, divided by a movable partition (piston) into two compartments of dimensions a x b and (L-a) x b. We compute the Casimir force on the piston in the limit L -> infinity. Regardless of the value of a/b, the piston is attracted to the nearest end of the box. Asymptotic expressions for the Casimir force on the piston are derived for a << b and a >> b.

id: quant-ph/0310185
title: Communication through measurements and unitary transformations
authors: Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310185
abstract: It is generally accepted that no `faster than light signalling' (FTLS) using two entangled spin 1/2 particles is possible because of indeterminism in a quantum measurement and linearity of standard quantum mechanics. We show how in principle one bit of information could be transmitted using local measurements and a global unitary transformation of the state of two entangled spatially separated spin 1/2 particles. Assuming that the postulate of a state collapse due to measurement is valid, the no FTLS condition is saved if we do not have physical access to the required global unitary transformation. This means that the no FTLS condition is also present on the operational level, namely as imposing a physical restriction on the possible realizable unitary transformations, in this case of two entangled but spatially separated spin 1/2.

id: quant-ph/0310186
title: There Is No Basis Ambiguity in Everett Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: 17 pages, no figures. Minor typographical changes
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 17 (2004) 323-341
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310186
abstract: The Everett-interpretation description of isolated measurements, i.e., measurements involving interaction between a measuring apparatus and a measured system but not interaction with the environment, is shown to be unambiguous, claims in the literature to the contrary notwithstanding. The appearance of ambiguity in such measurements is engendered by the fact that, in the Schroedinger picture, information on splitting into Everett copies must be inferred from the history of the combined system. In the Heisenberg picture this information is contained in mathematical quantities associated with a single time.

id: quant-ph/0310187
title: Highly efficient generation of pulsed photon pair using a bulk Periodically Poled Potassium Titanyl Phosphate
authors: Bao-Sen Shi, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310187
abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate efficient generation of collinearly propagating, degenerate pulsed photon pairs based on a bulk Periodically Poled Potassium Titanyl Phosphate pumped by an ultrashort pulse laser. Using a single-mode fiber as a spatial mode filter, we detect about 3200 coincidence counts per second per milliwatt pump power. After we consider main losses in our experiment, the inferred coincidence counts are about 109000 per second per milliwatt pump power. This is the very promising for realization of sources for quantum communication and metrology.

id: quant-ph/0310188
title: Simulation of quantum interference by reactions of chemical type
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 16 pages, LaTex, list of reactions corrected, some misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310188
abstract: A quantum unitary evolution alternated with measurements is simulated by a bubble filled with fictitious particles called amplitude quanta that move chaotically and can be transformed by the simple rules that look like chemical reactions. A basic state of simulated system is treated as a collision of the two corresponding amplitude quanta, that gives the quantum statistics of measurements. The movement of the external membrane of the bubble corresponds to the classical dynamics of the simulated system. Measurements are treated as the membrane perforations and they are completely determined by initial conditions. An identity of particles and an entanglement is simulated by the membranes touching. The required memory grows linearly where the number of particles increases, but entangled states of the big number of particles can be simulated. The method can be used for a visualization of quantum dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0310189
title: Quantum computation by measurements
authors: Debbie W. Leung
comments: Based on a presentation at EQIS 03, Kyoto
journal: IJQI, Vol. 2, No. 1 (2004) 33-43
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310189
abstract: We first consider various methods for the indirect implementation of unitary gates. We apply these methods to rederive the universality of 4-qubit measurements based on a scheme much simpler than Nielsen's original construction [quant-ph/0108020]. Then, we prove the universality of simple discrete sets of 2-qubit measurements, again using a scheme simplifying the initial construction [quant-ph/0111122]. Finally, we show how to use a single 4-qubit measurement to achieve universal quantum computation, and outline a proof for the universality of almost all maximally entangling 4-qubit measurements.

id: quant-ph/0310190
title: On the alleged nonlocal and topological nature of the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: minor corrections, journal reference added
journal: Adv. Quantum Chem. 47, 239 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310190
abstract: The nonlocal and topological nature of the molecular Aharonov-Bohm (MAB) effect is examined for real electronic Hamiltonians. A notion of preferred gauge for MAB is suggested. The MAB effect in the linear + quadratic $E\otimes \epsilon$ Jahn-Teller system is shown to be essentially analogues to an anisotropic Aharonov-Casher effect for an electrically neutral spin$-{1/2}$ particle encircling a certain configuration of lines of charge.

id: quant-ph/0310191
title: Limit theorems and absorption problems for one-dimensional correlated random walks
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 19 pages, revised version
journal: Stochastic Models, Vol.25, Issue 1, pp.28-49 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310191
abstract: There has recently been considerable interest in quantum walks in connection with quantum computing. The walk can be considered as a quantum version of the so-called correlated random walk. We clarify a strong structural similarity between both walks and study limit theorems and absorption problems for correlated random walks by our PQRS method, which was used in our analysis of quantum walks.

id: quant-ph/0310192
title: Observation of Bell Inequality violation in B mesons
authors: Apollo Go, Belle Collaboration
comments: Conference Proceeding for Garda Lake Workshop 2003 "Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310192
abstract: A pair of $B^0\bar B^0$ mesons from $\Upsilon(4S)$ decay exhibit EPR type non-local particle-antiparticle (flavor) correlation. It is possible to write down Bell Inequality (in the CHSH form: $S\le2$) to test the non-locality assumption of EPR. Using semileptonic $B^0$ decays of $\Upsilon(4S)$ at Belle experiment, a clear violation of Bell Inequality in particle-antiparticle correlation is observed: S=2.725+-0.167(stat)+-0.092(syst)

id: quant-ph/0310193
title: A size criterion for macroscopic superposition states
authors: Gunnar Bj?rk, Piero G. Luca Mana
comments: LaTeX2e-REVTeX4, 9 pages, 3 figures. V2: introduction and discussion slightly altered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310193
abstract: An operational measure to quantify the sizes of some ``macroscopic quantum superpositions'', realized in recent experiments, is proposed. The measure is based on the fact that a superposition presents greater sensitivity in interferometric applications than its superposed constituent states. This enhanced sensitivity, or ``interference utility'', may then be used as a size criterion among superpositions.

id: quant-ph/0310194
title: The Casimir Effect and Geometric Optics
authors: R. L. Jaffe, A. Scardicchio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.92:070402,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310194
abstract: We propose a new approach to the Casimir effect based on classical ray optics. We define and compute the contribution of classical optical paths to the Casimir force between rigid bodies. We reproduce the standard result for parallel plates and agree over a wide range of parameters with a recent numerical treatment of the sphere and plate with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Our approach improves upon proximity force approximation. It can be generalized easily to other geometries, other boundary conditions, to the computation of Casimir energy densities and to many other situations.

id: quant-ph/0310195
title: Solutions of the Logarithmic Schrodinger Equation in a Rotating Harmonic Trap
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0310195
abstract: We study the influence of the nonlinearity in the Schrodinger equation on the motion of quantum particles in a harmonic trap. In order to obtain exact analytic solutions, we have chosen the logarithmic nonlinearity. The unexpected result of our study is the existence in the presence of nonlinearity of two or even three coexisting Gaussian solutions.

id: cond-mat/0310020
title: Wave Function Collapse in a Mesoscopic Device
authors: G. B. Lesovik, A. V. Lebedev, G. Blatter
comments: 7 pages, 2 fugures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 125313 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310020
abstract: We determine the non-local in time and space current-current cross correlator $<\hat{I}(x_1,t_1) \hat{I}(x_2,t_2)>$ in a mesoscopic conductor with a scattering center at the origin. Its excess part appearing at finite voltage exhibits a unique dependence on the retarded variable $t_1-t_2-(|x_1|-|x_2|)/ v_{\rm\scriptscriptstyle F}$, with $v_{\rm\scriptscriptstyle F}$ the Fermi velocity. The non-monotonic dependence of the retardation on $x_1$ and its absence at the symmetric position $x_1 = -x_2$ is a signature of the wave function collapse, which thus becomes amenable to observation in a mesoscopic solid state device.

id: cond-mat/0310144
title: Electron Wave Function Distribution Change in Mesoscopic Systems
authors: Erez Yahalomi
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310144
abstract: We find a new phenomenon, a particle like an electron, which transfers kinetic energy to other subject undergoes a decrease in its wave packet size in space and an electron that gains kinetic energy experiences an enlargement of its wavepacket size. This effect occurs in some amount of degree almost in any physical system. The effect has significance on electron transport in semiconductors, quantum wires, future devices in nanotechnology and quantum optics.

id: cond-mat/0310199
title: Entanglement production in a chaotic quantum dot
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, M. Kindermann, C.M. Marcus, A. Yacoby
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, Kluwer style file included
journal: Fundamental Problems of Mesoscopic Physics, eds. I.V. Lerner, B.L. Altshuler, and Y. Gefen, NATO Science Series II. Vol. 154 (Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310199
abstract: It has recently been shown theoretically that elastic scattering in the Fermi sea produces quantum mechanically entangled states. The mechanism is similar to entanglement by a beam splitter in optics, but a key distinction is that the electronic mechanism works even if the source is in local thermal equilibrium. An experimental realization was proposed using tunneling between two edge channels in a strong magnetic field. Here we investigate a low-magnetic field alternative, using multiple scattering in a quantum dot. Two pairs of single-channel point contacts define a pair of qubits. If the scattering is chaotic, a universal statistical description of the entanglement production (quantified by the concurrence) is possible. The mean concurrence turns out to be almost independent on whether time-reversal symmetry is broken or not. We show how the concurrence can be extracted from a Bell inequality using low-frequency noise measurements, without requiring the tunneling assumption of earlier work.

id: cond-mat/0310214
title: The Calogero-Moser equation system and the ensemble average in the Gaussian ensembles
authors: H.-J. Stoeckmann
comments: accepted by J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310214
abstract: From random matrix theory it is known that for special values of the coupling constant the Calogero-Moser (CM) equation system is nothing but the radial part of a generalized harmonic oscillator Schroedinger equation. This allows an immediate construction of the solutions by means of a Rodriguez relation. The results are easily generalized to arbitrary values of the coupling constant. By this the CM equations become nearly trivial. As an application an expansion for <exp[i(XY)]> in terms of eigenfunctions of the CM equation system is obtained, where X and Y are matrices taken from one of the Gaussian ensembles, and the brackets denote an average over the angular variables.

id: cond-mat/0310239
title: The spin-boson model with a structured environment: A comparison of approaches
authors: F.K. Wilhelm, S. Kleff, J. von Delft
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310239
abstract: In the spin-boson model, the properties of the oscillator bath are fully characterized by the spectral density of oscillators $J(\omega)$. We study the case when this function is of Breit-Wigner shape and has a sharp peak at a frequency $\Omega$ with width $\Gamma\ll\Omega$. We use a number of approaches such as the weak-coupling Bloch-Redfield equation, the non-interacting blip approximation (NIBA) and the flow-equation renormalization scheme. We show, that if $\Omega$ is much larger than the qubit energy scales, the dynamics corresponds to an Ohmic spin-boson model with a strongly reduced tunnel splitting. We also show that the direction of the scaling of the tunnel splitting changes sign when the bare splitting crosses $\Omega$. We find good agreement between our analytical approximations and numerical results. We illuminate how and why different approaches to the model account for these features and discuss the interpretation of this model in the context of an application to quantum computation and read-out.

id: cond-mat/0310332
title: Entropy and perpetual computers
authors: Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: Based on Chanchal Majumdar memorial lectures given in Kolkata. 9 pages, 3 eps figures. For publication in "Physics Teacher"; v2. Sec 3 fragmented into smaller subsections
journal: Phys.Teacher 45 (2003) 12
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310332
abstract: A definition of entropy via the Kolmogorov algorithmic complexity is discussed. As examples, we show how the meanfield theory for the Ising model, and the entropy of a perfect gas can be recovered. The connection with computations are pointed out, by paraphrasing the laws of thermodynamics for computers. Also discussed is an approach that may be adopted to develop statistical mechanics using the algorithmic point of view.

id: cond-mat/0310352
title: Exponentially Localized Magnetic Fields for Single-Spin Quantum Logic Gates
authors: Daniel A. Lidar, Joseph H. Thywissen
comments: 5 pages, incl. 4 figures
journal: Journal of Applied Physics 96, 754 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310352
abstract: An infinite array of parallel current-carrying wires is known, from the field of neutral particle optics, to produce an exponentially localized magnetic field when the current direction is antiparallel in adjacent wires. We show that a finite array of several tens of superconducting Nb nanowires can produce a peak magnetic field of 10mT that decays by a factor of 10^4 over a length scale of 500nm. Such an array is readily manufacturable with current technology, and is compatible with both semiconductor and superconducting quantum computer architectures. A series of such arrays can be used to individually address single single-spin or flux qubits spaced as little as 100nm apart, and can lead to quantum logic gate times of 5ns.

id: cond-mat/0310386
title: Adiabatic evolution of a coupled-qubit Hamiltonian
authors: V. Corato, P.Silvestrini, L.Stodolsky, J. Wosiek
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to be pub.in Phys Rev B
journal: Phys Rev B68 224508 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310386
abstract: We present a general method for studying coupled qubits driven by adiabatically changing external parameters. Extended calculations are provided for a two-bit Hamiltonian whose eigenstates can be used as logical states for a quantum CNOT gate. From a numerical analysis of the stationary Schroedinger equation we find a set of parameters suitable for representing CNOT, while from a time-dependent study the conditions for adiabatic evolution are determined. Specializing to a concrete physical system involving SQUIDs, we determine reasonable parameters for experimental purposes. The dissipation for SQUIDs is discussed by fitting experimental data. The low dissipation obtained supports the idea that adiabatic operations could be performed on a time scale shorter than the decoherence time.

id: cond-mat/0310388
title: Spatial correlations of trapped 1d bosons in an optical lattice
authors: C. Kollath, U. Schollw?ck, J. von Delft, W. Zwerger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (Rapids), 031601 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310388
abstract: We investigate a quasi-one dimensional system of trapped cold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice by using the density matrix renormalization group to study the Bose-Hubbard model at T=0 for experimentally realistic numbers of lattice sites. It is shown that a properly rescaled one-particle density matrix characterizes superfluid versus insulating states just as in the homogeneous system. For typical parabolic traps we also confirm the widely used local density approach for describing correlations in the limit of weak interaction. Finally, we note that the superfluid to Mott-insulating transition is seen most directly in the half width of the interference peak.

id: cond-mat/0310394
title: Controlling ultracold atoms in multi-band optical lattices for simulation of Kondo physics
authors: L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. 67 (5): 721-727 (2004).
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310394
abstract: We show that ultracold atoms can be controlled in multi-band optical lattices through spatially periodic Raman pulses for investigation of a class of strongly correlated physics related to the Kondo problem. The underlying dynamics of this system is described by a spin-dependent fermionic or bosonic Kondo-Hubbard lattice model even if we have only spin-independent atomic collision interaction. We solve the bosonic Kondo-Hubbard lattice model through a mean-field approximation, and the result shows a clear phase transition from the ferromagnetic superfluid to the Kondo-signet insulator at the integer filling.

id: cond-mat/0310428
title: Anomalous Threshold Laws in Quantum Sticking
authors: Dennis P. Clougherty
comments: 9 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 226105 (2003)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310428
abstract: It has been stated that for a short-ranged surface interaction, the probability of a low-energy particle sticking to a surface always vanishes as $s\sim k$ with $k\to 0$ where $k=\sqrt{E}$. Deviations from this so-called universal threshold law are derived using a linear model of particle-surface scattering. The Fredholm theory of integral equations is used to find the global conditions necessary for a convergent solution. The exceptional case of a zero-energy resonance is considered in detail. Anomalous threshold laws, where $s\sim k^{1+\alpha}, \alpha > 0$ as $k\to 0$, are shown to arise from a soft gap in the weighted density of states of excitations; $\alpha$ is determined by the behavior of the weighted density of states near the binding energy.

id: cond-mat/0310496
title: Production and detection of three-qubit entanglement in the Fermi sea
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, C. Emary, M. Kindermann
comments: 8 pages including 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B 69, 115320 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310496
abstract: Building on a previous proposal for the entanglement of electron-hole pairs in the Fermi sea, we show how 3 qubits can be entangled without using electron-electron interactions. As in the 2-qubit case, this electronic scheme works even if the sources are in (local) thermal equilibrium -- in contrast to the photonic analogue. The 3 qubits are represented by 4 edge-channel excitations in the quantum Hall effect (2 hole excitations plus 2 electron excitations with identical channel index). The entangler consists of an adiabatic point contact flanked by a pair of tunneling point contacts. The irreducible 3-qubit entanglement is characterized by the tangle, which is expressed in terms of the transmission matrices of the tunneling point contacts. The maximally entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state is obtained for channel-independent tunnel probabilities. We show how low-frequency noise measurements can be used to determine an upper and lower bound to the tangle. The bounds become tighter the closer the electron-hole state is to the GHZ state.

id: cond-mat/0310542
title: Input and output in damped quantum systems III: Formulation of damped systems driven by Fermion fields
authors: C. W. Gardiner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310542
abstract: A comprehensive input-output theory is developed for Fermionic input fields. Quantum stochastic differential equations are developed in both the Ito and Stratonovich forms. The major technical issue is the development of a formalism which takes account of anticommutation relations between the Fermionic driving field and those system operators which can change the number of Fermions within the system.

id: cond-mat/0310638
title: Quantum Zeno subspace and entangled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: M. Zhang, L. You
comments: 5 figures, to be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310638
abstract: We discuss a proposal for the efficient generation of the maximally entangled atomic N-GHZ state in a spinor-1 condensate by driving internal state atomic Raman transitions using (classical) laser fields. We illustrate the dynamics in terms of a quantum Zeno subspace, and identify the resultant atomic elastic collision in facilitating the deterministic entanglement creation. Our proposal can be readily implemented in several laboratories where ferromagnetic spinor condensates (of $^{87}$Rb atoms) are investigated.

id: cond-mat/0310670
title: Prospects for Strong Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics with Superconducting Circuits
authors: S. M. Girvin, Ren-Shou Huang, Alexandre Blais, Andreas Wallraff, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 18 pages (preprint style) incl. 2 figures and 2 tables
journal: in Quantum Entanglement and Information Processing, Proceedings of the Les Houches Summer School 2003 (Les Houches, Volume Session LXXIX) (D. Esteve, J.-M. Raimond, J. Dalibard Eds), ISBN 0-444-51728-6, Elsevier Science (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310670
abstract: We propose a realizable architecture using one-dimensional transmission line resonators to reach the strong coupling limit of cavity quantum electrodynamics in superconducting electrical circuits. The vacuum Rabi frequency for the coupling of cavity photons to quantized excitations of an adjacent electrical circuit (qubit) can easily exceed the damping rates of both the cavity and the qubit. This architecture is attractive for quantum computing and control, since it provides strong inhibition of spontaneous emission, potentially leading to greatly enhanced qubit lifetimes, allows high-fidelity quantum non-demolition measurements of the state of multiple qubits, and has a natural mechanism for entanglement of qubits separated by centimeter distances. In addition it would allow production of microwave photon states of fundamental importance for quantum communication.

id: cond-mat/0310692
title: Understanding the Fano Resonance : through Toy Models
authors: Swarnali Bandopadhyay, Binayak Dutta-Roy, H.S.Mani
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: Am. J. Phys. 72 (12) 1501 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310692
abstract: The Fano Resonance, involving the mixing between a quasi-bound `discrete' state of an inelastic channel lying in the continuum of scattering states belonging to the elastic channel, has several subtle features. The underlying ideas have recently attracted attention in connection with interference effects in quantum wires and mesoscopic transport phenomena. Simple toy models are provided in the present study to illustrate the basics of the Fano resonance in a simple and tractable setting.

id: cond-mat/0310705
title: Inhomogeneous atomic Bose-Fermi mixtures in cubic lattices
authors: M. Cramer, J. Eisert, F. Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, new material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 190405 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310705
abstract: We determine the ground state properties of inhomogeneous mixtures of bosons and fermions in cubic lattices by studying the Bose-Fermi Hubbard model including parabolic confining potentials. We present the exact solution in the limit of vanishing hopping (ultradeep lattices) and study the resulting domain structure of composite particles. For finite hopping we determine the domain boundaries between Mott-insulator plateaux and hopping-dominated regions for lattices of arbitrary dimensionality within perturbation theory. The results are compared with a new numerical method that is based on a Gutzwiller variational approach for the bosons and an exact treatment for the fermions. The findings can be applied as a guideline for future experiments with trapped atomic Bose-Fermi mixtures in optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0310715
title: Vortex nucleation through edge states in finite Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Eric Akkermans, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures. Both figures and the text have been revised
journal: J. Phys. B:At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 37 (2004) S127-S139
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310715
abstract: We study the vortex nucleation in a finite Bose-Einstein condensate. Using a set of non-local and chiral boundary conditions to solve the Schr$\ddot{o}$dinger equation of non-interacting bosons in a rotating trap, we obtain a quantitative expression for the characteristic angular velocity for vortex nucleation in a condensate which is found to be 35% of the transverse harmonic trapping frequency.

id: cond-mat/0310719
title: Entanglement interferometry for precision measurement of atomic scattering properties
authors: Artur Widera, Olaf Mandel, Markus Greiner, Susanne Kreim, Theodor W. H?nsch, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0310719
abstract: We report on a two-particle matter wave interferometer realized with pairs of trapped 87Rb atoms. Each pair of atoms is confined at a single site of an optical lattice potential. The interferometer is realized by first creating a coherent spin-mixture of the two atoms and then tuning the inter-state scattering length via a Feshbach resonance. The selective change of the inter-state scattering length leads to an entanglement dynamics of the two-particle state that can be detected in a Ramsey interference experiment. This entanglement dynamics is employed for a precision measurement of atomic interaction parameters. Furthermore, the interferometer allows to separate lattice sites with one or two atoms in a non-destructive way.

id: gr-qc/0310007
title: Is a classical Euclidean TOE reasonable?
authors: A. Arbona
comments: RevTex4, 36 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0310007
abstract: We analyze both the feasibility and reasonableness of a classical Euclidean Theory of Everything (TOE), which we understand as a TOE based on an Euclidean space and an absolute time over which deterministic models of particles and forces are built. The possible axiomatic complexity of a TOE in such a framework is considered and compared to the complexity of the assumptions underlying the Standard Model. Current approaches to relevant (for our purposes) reformulations of Special Relativity, General Relativity, inertia models and Quantum Theory are summarized, and links between some of these reformulations are exposed. A qualitative framework is suggested for a research program on a classical Euclidean TOE. Within this framework an underlying basis is suggested, in particular, for the Principle of Relativity and Principle of Equivalence. A model for gravity as an inertial phenomenon is proposed. Also, a basis for quantum indeterminacy and wave function collapse is suggested in the framework.

id: gr-qc/0310035
title: A Covariant Information-Density Cutoff in Curved Space-Time
authors: Achim Kempf
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92 (2004) 221301
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0310035
abstract: In information theory, the link between continuous information and discrete information is established through well-known sampling theorems. Sampling theory explains, for example, how frequency-filtered music signals are reconstructible perfectly from discrete samples. In this Letter, sampling theory is generalized to pseudo-Riemannian manifolds. This provides a new set of mathematical tools for the study of space-time at the Planck scale: theories formulated on a differentiable space-time manifold can be completely equivalent to lattice theories. There is a close connection to generalized uncertainty relations which have appeared in string theory and other studies of quantum gravity.

id: hep-ph/0310131
title: Numerical simulation of vacuum particle production: applications to cosmology, dynamical Casimir effect and time-dependent non-homogeneous dielectrics
authors: Nuno D. Antunes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0310131
abstract: We develop a general numerical method aimed at studying particle production from vacuum states in a variety of settings. As a first example we look at particle production in a simple cosmological model. We apply the same approach to the dynamical Casimir effect, with special focus on the case of an oscillating mirror. We confirm previous estimates and obtain long-time production rates and particle spectra for both resonant and off-resonant frequencies. Finally, we simulate a system with space and time-dependent optical properties, analogous to a one-dimensional expanding dielectric bubble. We obtain simple expressions for the dependence of the final particle number on the expansion velocity and final dielectric constant.

id: hep-ph/0310157
title: Improved tests of extra-dimensional physics and thermal quantum field theory from new Casimir force measurements
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. L. Lopez, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: Revtex 4, 35 pages, 14 figures in .gif format, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D68 (2003) 116003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0310157
abstract: We report new constraints on extra-dimensional models and other physics beyond the Standard Model based on measurements of the Casimir force between two dissimilar metals for separations in the range 0.2--1.2 $\mu$m. The Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and a Cu-coated plate of a microelectromechanical torsional oscillator was measured statically with an absolute error of 0.3 pN. In addition, the Casimir pressure between two parallel plates was determined dynamically with an absolute error of $\approx 0.6$ mPa. Within the limits of experimental and theoretical errors, the results are in agreement with a theory that takes into account the finite conductivity and roughness of the two metals. The level of agreement between experiment and theory was then used to set limits on the predictions of extra-dimensional physics and thermal quantum field theory. It is shown that two theoretical approaches to the thermal Casimir force which predict effects linear in temperture are ruled out by these experiments. Finally, constraints on Yukawa corrections to Newton's law of gravity are strengthened by more than an order of magnitude in the range 56 nm to 330 nm.

id: hep-th/0310016
title: A non-commutative n-particle 3D Wigner quantum oscillator
authors: R.C. King, T.D. Palev, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 26 pages, to be published in J.Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A36:11999-12019,2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310016
abstract: An n-particle 3-dimensional Wigner quantum oscillator model is constructed explicitly. It is non-canonical in that the usual coordinate and linear momentum commutation relations are abandoned in favour of Wigner's suggestion that Hamilton's equations and the Heisenberg equations are identical as operator equations. The construction is based on the use of Fock states corresponding to a family of irreducible representations of the Lie superalgebra sl(1|3n) indexed by an A-superstatistics parameter p. These representations are typical for p\geq 3n but atypical for p<3n. The branching rules for the restriction from sl(1|3n) to gl(1) \oplus so(3) \oplus sl(n) are used to enumerate energy and angular momentum eigenstates. These are constructed explicitly and tabulated for n\leq 2. It is shown that measurements of the coordinates of the individual particles gives rise to a set of discrete values defining nests in the 3-dimensional configuration space. The fact that the underlying geometry is non-commutative is shown to have a significant impact on measurements of particle separation. In the atypical case, exclusion phenomena are identified that are entirely due to the effect of A-superstatistics. The energy spectrum and associated degeneracies are calculated for an infinite-dimensional realisation of the Wigner quantum oscillator model obtained by summing over all p. The results are compared with those applying to the analogous canonical quantum oscillator.

id: hep-th/0310022
title: Notes on Spacetime Thermodynamics and the Observer-dependence of Entropy
authors: Donald Marolf, Djordje Minic, Simon Ross
comments: 14 pages, JHEP style
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 064006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310022
abstract: Due to the Unruh effect, accelerated and inertial observers differ in their description of a given quantum state. The implications of this effect are explored for the entropy assigned by such observers to localized objects that may cross the associated Rindler horizon. It is shown that the assigned entropies differ radically in the limit where the number of internal states $n$ becomes large. In particular, the entropy assigned by the accelerated observer is a bounded function of $n$. General arguments are given along with explicit calculations for free fields. The implications for discussions of the generalized second law and proposed entropy bounds are also discussed.

id: hep-th/0310043
title: A q-deformed Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. B440 (1998) 66-68
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310043
abstract: With a q-deformed quantum mechanical framework, features of the uncertainty relation and a novel formulation of the Schr\"odinger equation are considered.

id: hep-th/0310091
title: Implications of area scaling of quantum fluctuations
authors: Ram Brustein, David H. Oaknin, Amos Yarom
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 044043
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310091
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of a certain class of bulk operators defined in spatial sub-volumes of Minkowski space-time, have an unexpected area scaling property. We wish to present evidence that such area scaling may be ascribed to a boundary theory. We first highlight the implications of area scaling with two examples in which the boundary area of the spatial regions is not monotonous with their volume. Next, we prove that the covariance of two operators that are restricted to two different regions in Minkowski space scales linearly with their mutual boundary area. Finally, we present an example which demonstrates why this implies an underlying boundary theory.

id: hep-th/0310148
title: Bound states and the Bekenstein bound
authors: Raphael Bousso
comments: 35 pages
journal: JHEP 0402 (2004) 025
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310148
abstract: We explore the validity of the generalized Bekenstein bound, S <= pi M a. We define the entropy S as the logarithm of the number of states which have energy eigenvalue below M and are localized to a flat space region of width a. If boundary conditions that localize field modes are imposed by fiat, then the bound encounters well-known difficulties with negative Casimir energy and large species number, as well as novel problems arising only in the generalized form. In realistic systems, however, finite-size effects contribute additional energy. We study two different models for estimating such contributions. Our analysis suggests that the bound is both valid and nontrivial if interactions are properly included, so that the entropy S counts the bound states of interacting fields.

id: hep-th/0310166
title: Propagating spinors on a tetrahedral spacetime lattice
authors: Brendan Z. Foster, Ted Jacobson
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; v.2: added demonstration that fermion doubling does not occur, added appendix proving convergence, other minor changes of presentation
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310166
abstract: We derive a discrete path integral for massless fermions on a hypercubic spacetime lattice with null faces. The amplitude for a path with N steps and B bends is +/- (1/2)^N (i/sqrt{3})^B.

id: hep-th/0310196
title: A q-deformed Uncertainty Relation
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A262 (1999) 125-130
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310196
abstract: Within the formulation of a q-deformed Quantum Mechanics a qualitative undercut of the q-deformed uncertainty relation from the Heisenberg uncertainty relation is revealed. When $q$ is some fixed value not equal to one, recovering of ordinary quantum mechanics and the corresponding recovering condition are discussed.

id: hep-th/0310276
title: On the Real Spectra of Calogero Model with Complex Coupling
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh, Kumar S. Gupta
comments: revtex4 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A323 (2004) 29-33
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310276
abstract: We study the eigenvalue problem of the rational Calogero model with the coupling of the inverse-square interaction as a complex number. We show that although this model is manifestly non-invariant under the combined parity and time-reversal symmetry ${\cal{PT}}$, the eigenstates corresponding to the zero value of the generalized angular momentum have real energies.

id: hep-th/0310279
title: Self-dual random-plaquette gauge model and the quantum toric code
authors: Koujin Takeda, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: Nucl. Phys. B686 (2004) 377-396
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310279
abstract: We study the four-dimensional Z_2 random-plaquette lattice gauge theory as a model of topological quantum memory, the toric code in particular. In this model, the procedure of quantum error correction works properly in the ordered (Higgs) phase, and phase boundary between the ordered (Higgs) and disordered (confinement) phases gives the accuracy threshold of error correction. Using self-duality of the model in conjunction with the replica method, we show that this model has exactly the same mathematical structure as that of the two dimensional random-bond Ising model, which has been studied very extensively. This observation enables us to derive a conjecture on the exact location of the multicritical point (accuracy threshold) of the model, p_c=0.889972..., and leads to several nontrivial results including bounds on the accuracy threshold in three dimensions.

id: hep-th/0310301
title: Dirichlet Spheres in Continuum Quantum Field Theory
authors: H. Weigel
comments: Eight pages, (Rinton style included), Contribution to the proceedings of the QFEXT03 workshop, Norman,Oklahoma, September 2003
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0310301
abstract: We study the vacuum polarization (Casimir) energy in renormalizable, continuum quantum field theory in the presence of a background field, designed to impose Dirichlet boundary conditions on the fluctuating quantum field. In two and three spatial dimensions the Casimir energy diverges as a background field becomes concentrated on the surface on which the Dirichlet boundary condition would eventually hold. This divergence does not affect the force between rigid bodies, but it does invalidate calculations of Casimir stresses based on idealized boundary conditions.

id: math-ph/0310007
title: Green functions of the Dirac equation with magnetic-solenoid field
authors: S.P. Gavrilov, D.M. Gitman, A.A. Smirnov
comments: 12 pages, LaTex file; added references and some comments; accepted to J.Math.Phys
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 1873-1886
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0310007
abstract: Various Green functions of the Dirac equation with a magnetic-solenoid field (the superposition of the Aharonov-Bohm field and a collinear uniform magnetic field) are constructed and studied. The problem is considered in 2+1 and 3+1 dimensions for the natural extension of the Dirac operator (the extension obtained from the solenoid regularization). Representations of the Green functions as proper time integrals are derived. The nonrelativistic limit is considered. For the sake of completeness the Green functions of the Klein-Gordon particles are constructed as well.

id: math-ph/0310023
title: Canonical Quantization and Impenetrable Barriers
authors: P. Garbaczewski, W. Karwowski
comments: to appear in Am.J.Phys (2004)
journal: Am. J. Phys. 72, (2004), 924-933
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0310023
abstract: We address an apparent conflict between the traditional canonical quantization framework of quantum theory and the spatially restricted quantum dynamics, when the translation invariance of the otherwise free quantum system is broken by boundary conditions. By invoking an exemplary case of a particle in an infinite well, we analyze spectral problems for related, confined and global, observables. In particular, we show how one can make sense of various operators pertaining to trapped particles by not ignoring the rest of the real line (e.g., that space which is never occupied by the particle in question).

id: math-ph/0310065
title: Geometric phase and modulus relations for SU(n) matrix elements in the defining representation
authors: Alonso Botero
comments: 9 Pages, RevTex 4, no figures. Corrected some typos and mistakes in equation referencing
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0310065
abstract: A set of relations between the modulus and phase is derived for amplitudes of the form $\mels{\hatu(x)}$ where $\hat{U}(x) \in SU(n)$ in the fundamental representation and $x$ denotes the coordinates on the group manifold. An illustration is given for the case $n=2$ as well as a brief discussion of phase singularities and superoscillatory phase behavior for such amplitudes. The present results complement results obtained previously \cite{PMrel1} for amplitudes valued on the ray space ${\cal R} = {\mathbb C}P^n$. The connection between the two is discussed.

id: math-ph/0310068
title: Wigner's new physics frontier: Physics of two-by-two matrices, including the Lorentz group and optical instruments
authors: Sibel Baskal, Elena Georgieva, Y. S. Kim
comments: Latex 28 pages, based on the papers presented by the last author(YSK) at a number of conferences, including the 8th International Wigner Symposium (New York, U.S.A., 2003), the 8th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations (Puebla, Mexico, 2003), the Symmetry Festival (Budapest, Hungary, 2003), and the International Conference on Physics and Control (Saint Petersburg, Russia, 2003)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0310068
abstract: According to Eugene Wigner, quantum mechanics is a physics of Fourier transformations, and special relativity is a physics of Lorentz transformations. Since two-by-two matrices with unit determinant form the group SL(2,c) which acts as the universal covering group of the Lorentz group, the two-by-two matrices constitute the natural language for special relativity. The central language for optical instruments is the two-by-two matrix called the beam transfer matrix, or the so-called ABCD matrix. It is shown that the ABCD matrices also form the SL(2,C) group. Thus, it is possible to perform experiments in special relativity using optical instruments. Likewise, the optical instruments can be explained in terms of the symmetry of relativistic particles.

id: physics/0310009
title: Quantum circa-rhythms
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Monika Syty
comments: revtex4, 7 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0310009
abstract: A class of solutions of nonlinear von Neumann equations exhibits rhythmic properties analogous to those found for nonlinear kinetic equations employed in phenomenological description of biochemical oscillations. As opposed to kinetic equations, typically solved numerically and involving Hill-type nonlinearities, our exact solutions are derived by means of soliton techniques and involve a simple quadratic nonlinearity.

