id: quant-ph/0312001
title: Phase dynamics of a multimode Bose condensate controlled by decay
authors: H. L. Haroutyunyan, G. Nienhuis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312001
abstract: The relative phase between two uncoupled BE condensates tends to attain a specific value when the phase is measured. This can be done by observing their decay products in interference. We discuss exactly solvable models for this process in cases where competing observation channels drive the phases to different sets of values. We treat the case of two modes which both emit into the input ports of two beam splitters, and of a linear or circular chain of modes. In these latter cases, the transitivity of relative phase becomes an issue.

id: quant-ph/0312002
title: Quantum Dynamical Entropy of Spin Systems
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Masanori Ohya
comments: 10 pages
journal: Rep.Math.Phys.Vol.56 No.1 (2005) 1-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312002
abstract: We investigate a quantum dynamical entropy of one-dimesional quantum spin systems. We show that the dynamical entropy is bounded from above by a quantity which is related with group velocity determined by the interaction and mean entropy of the state.

id: quant-ph/0312003
title: An Algorithmic Argument for Nonadaptive Query Complexity Lower Bounds on Advised Quantum Computation
authors: Harumichi Nishimura, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: 16 pages. An extended abstract will appear in the Proceedings of the 29th International Symposium on Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer-Verlag, Prague, August 22-27, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312003
abstract: This paper employs a powerful argument, called an algorithmic argument, to prove lower bounds of the quantum query complexity of a multiple-block ordered search problem in which, given a block number i, we are to find a location of a target keyword in an ordered list of the i-th block. Apart from much studied polynomial and adversary methods for quantum query complexity lower bounds, our argument shows that the multiple-block ordered search needs a large number of nonadaptive oracle queries on a black-box model of quantum computation that is also supplemented with advice. Our argument is also applied to the notions of computational complexity theory: quantum truth-table reducibility and quantum truth-table autoreducibility.

id: quant-ph/0312004
title: Controlled and secure direct communication using GHZ state and teleportation
authors: Ting Gao
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 59a (2004) 597
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312004
abstract: A theoretical scheme for controlled and secure direct communication is proposed. The communication is based on GHZ state and controlled quantum teleportation. After insuring the security of the quantum channel (a set of qubits in the GHZ state), Alice encodes the secret message directly on a sequence of particle states and transmits them to Bob supervised by Charlie using controlled quantum teleportation. Bob can read out the encoded messages directly by the measurement on his qubits. In this scheme, the controlled quantum teleportation transmits Alice's message without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper. Because there is not a transmission of the qubit carrying the secret messages between Alice and Bob in the public channel, it is completely secure for controlled and direct secret communication if perfect quantum channel is used. The feature of this scheme is that the communication between two sides depends on the agreement of the third side.

id: quant-ph/0312005
title: Accuracy of the time-dependent Hartree-Fock approximation for uncorrelated initial states
authors: Claude Bardos, Francois Golse, Alex D. Gottlieb, Norbert J. Mauser
comments: 18 pages. To appear in Journal of Statistical Physics
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics 115 (2004), 1037-1055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312005
abstract: This article concerns the time-dependent Hartree-Fock (TDHF) approximation of single-particle dynamics in systems of interacting fermions. We find that the TDHF approximation is accurate when there are sufficiently many particles and the initial many-particle state is any Gibbs equilibrium state for noninteracting fermions (with Slater determinants as a special example). Assuming a bounded two-particle interaction, we obtain a bound on the error of the TDHF approximation, valid for short times. We further show that the error of the TDHF approximation vanishes at all times in the mean field limit.

id: quant-ph/0312006
title: Noise and disturbance in quantum mechanics
authors: P. Busch, T. Heinonen, P. Lahti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 320 (2004) 261-270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312006
abstract: The operational meaning of some measures of noise and disturbance in measurements is analyzed and their limitations are pointed out. The cases of minimal noise and least disturbance are characterized.

id: quant-ph/0312007
title: Conditional preparation of a non-classical state in the continuous variable regime: theoretical study
authors: Julien Laurat, Thomas Coudreau, Nicolas Treps, Agnes Maitre, Claude Fabre
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (2004) 033808
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312007
abstract: We study the characteristics of the quantum state of light produced by a conditional preparation protocol totally performed in the continuous variable regime. It relies on conditional measurements on quantum intensity correlated bright twin beams emitted by a non-degenerate OPO above threshold. Analytical expressions as well as computer simulations of the selected state properties and preparation efficiency are developed and show that a sub-Poissonian state can be produced by this technique. Projection onto a given trigger value is studied and then extended to a finite band. The continuous variable regime offers the unique possibility to improve dramatically the preparation efficiency by choosing multiple selection bands and thus to generate a great number of sub-Poissonian states in parallel.

id: quant-ph/0312008
title: Noisy Control, the Adiabatic Geometric Phase, and Destruction of the Efficiency of Geometric Quantum Computation
authors: Frank Gaitan
comments: 4 pages, no figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312008
abstract: We examine the adiabatic dynamics of a quantum system coupled to a noisy classical control field. A stochastic phase shift is shown to arise in the off-diagonal elements of the system's density matrix which can cause decoherence. We derive the condition for onset of decoherence, and identify the noise properties that drive decoherence. We show how this decoherence mechansim causes: (1) a dephasing of the observable consequences of the adiabatic geometric phase; and (2) the loss of computational efficiency of the Shor algorithm when run on a sufficiently noisy geometric quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0312009
title: Casimir effect between dissimilar materials: a test for the proximity theorem
authors: Cecilia Noguea, Carlos E. Roman-Velazquez
comments: 8 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B70, 195412 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312009
abstract: We calculate exactly the Casimir force between a spherical particle and a plane, both with arbitrary dielectric properties, in the non-retarded limit. Using a Spectral Representation formalism, we show that the Casimir force of a sphere made of a material A and a plane made of a material B, differ from the case when the sphere is made of B, and the plane is made of A. The differences in energy and force show the importance of the geometry, and make evident the necessity of realistic descriptions of the sphere-plane system beyond the Proximity Theorem approximation.

id: quant-ph/0312010
title: Trade-off between multiple-copy transformation and entanglement catalysis
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Xin Li, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Essentially the journal version. 7 pages, no figures. Minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312010
abstract: We demonstrate that multiple copies of a bipartite entangled pure state may serve as a catalyst for certain entanglement transformations while a single copy cannot. Such a state is termed a "multiple-copy catalyst" for the transformations. A trade-off between the number of copies of source state and that of the catalyst is also observed. These results can be generalized to probabilistic entanglement transformations directly.

id: quant-ph/0312011
title: Quantum cryptography with and without entanglement
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, Proceedings for Les Houches Summer School on "Quantum entanglement and information processing", june-july 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312011
abstract: Quantum cryptography is reviewed, first using entanglement both for the intuition and for the experimental realizations. Next, the implementation is simplified in several steps until it becomes practical. At this point entanglement has disappeared. This method can be seen as a lesson of Applied Physics. Finally, security issues, e.g. photon number splitting attacks, and counter-measures are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0312012
title: The new wave equations of relativistic and non-relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Xiangyao Wu, Yiqing Guo, Xinguo Yin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312012
abstract: In this work, we give the wave equations of relativistic and non-relativistic quantum mechanics which are different from the Schr\"{o}dinger and Klein-Gordon equation, and we also give the new relativistic wave equation of a charged particle in an electromagnetic field

id: quant-ph/0312013
title: Correspondence and analyticity
authors: Henry P.Stapp
comments: Invited contribution to a special issue of Publications of RIMS commemorating the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the Research Institute for Mathematical Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312013
abstract: The analyticity properties of the S matrix in the physical region are determined by the correspondence principle, which asserts that the predictions of classical physics are generated by taking the classical limit of the predictions of quantum theory. The analyticity properties deducible in this way from classical properties include the locations of the singularity surfaces, the rules for analytic continuation around these surfaces, and the analytic character (e.g., pole, logarithmic, etc.) of these singulatities. These important properties of the S matrix are thus derived without using stringent locality assumptions. The quantum properties are derived by an analytic reverse engineering of the classical properties.

id: quant-ph/0312014
title: Preparing high purity initial states for nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computing
authors: M. S. Anwar, D. Blazina, H. Carteret, S. B. Duckett, T. K. Halstead, J. A. Jones, C. M. Kozak, R. J. K. Taylor
comments: 4 pages including 2 figures. Changes from v.3 at request of referees. Now in press at Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 040501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312014
abstract: Here we demonstrate how para-hydrogen can be used to prepare a two-spin system in an almost pure state which is suitable for implementing nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computation. A 12ns laser pulse is used to initiate a chemical reaction involving pure para-hydrogn (the nuclear spin singlet of H2). The product, formed on the microsecond timescale, contains a hydrogen derived two-spin system with an effective spin-state purity of 0.916. To achieve a comparable result by direct cooling would require an unmanageable (in the liquid state) effective spin temperature of 6.4mK or an impractical magnetic field of 0.45MT at room temperature. The resulting spin state has an entanglement of formation of 0.822 and cannot be described by local hidden variable models.

id: quant-ph/0312015
title: Quantum Superposition of a Mirror and Relative Decoherence (as Spontaneous Superposition Breaking)
authors: V. Pankovic, M. Predojevic, M. Krmar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312015
abstract: Marshall et al. gedanken experiment of the quantum superpposition of a mirror (oscilating part of a Michelson interferometer) interacting with single photon is consequently interpreted by relative decoherence.Such relative decoherence (based on the spontaneous superposition breaking (effective hiding)) on the photon (quantum object) caused by mirror (measurement device) is sufficient to model real measurement.

id: quant-ph/0312016
title: Quantum key distribution using gaussian-modulated coherent states
authors: F. Grosshans, G. Van Assche, J. Wenger, R. Brouri, N. J. Cerf, Ph. Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature (London) 421, 238 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312016
abstract: Quantum continuous variables are being explored as an alternative means to implement quantum key distribution, which is usually based on single photon counting. The former approach is potentially advantageous because it should enable higher key distribution rates. Here we propose and experimentally demonstrate a quantum key distribution protocol based on the transmission of gaussian-modulated coherent states (consisting of laser pulses containing a few hundred photons) and shot-noise-limited homodyne detection; squeezed or entangled beams are not required. Complete secret key extraction is achieved using a reverse reconciliation technique followed by privacy amplification. The reverse reconciliation technique is in principle secure for any value of the line transmission, against gaussian individual attacks based on entanglement and quantum memories. Our table-top experiment yields a net key transmission rate of about 1.7 megabits per second for a loss-free line, and 75 kilobits per second for a line with losses of 3.1 dB. We anticipate that the scheme should remain effective for lines with higher losses, particularly because the present limitations are essentially technical, so that significant margin for improvement is available on both the hardware and software.

id: quant-ph/0312017
title: On energy-momentum spectrum of stationary states with nonvanishing current on 1-d lattice systems
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 12 pages
journal: Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Vol. 10, 23-29, (2004) .
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312017
abstract: On one-dimensional two-way infinite quantum lattice system, a property of translationally invariant stationary states with nonvanishing current expectation is investigated. We consider GNS representation with respect to such a state, on which we have a group of space-time translation unitary operators. We show that spectrum of the unitary operators, energy-momentum spectrum with respect to the state, has a singularity at the origin.

id: quant-ph/0312018
title: Security of Quantum Key Distribution with Coherent States and Homodyne Detection
authors: S. Iblisdir, G. Van Assche, N. J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312018
abstract: We assess the security of a quantum key distribution protocol relying on the transmission of Gaussian-modulated coherent states and homodyne detection. This protocol is shown to be equivalent to a squeezed state protocol based on a CSS code construction, and is thus provably secure against any eavesdropping strategy. We also briefly show how this protocol can be generalized in order to improve the net key rate.

id: quant-ph/0312019
title: Phase shift analysis in Nimtz experiments on tunneling and transmission
authors: J. Jakiel, W. Kantor
comments: 16 pages,9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312019
abstract: For the wave representing particle traveling through any layer system we calculate appropriate phase shifts comparing two methods. One bases on the standard scattering theory and is well known another uses unimodular but not unitary M-monodromy matrix. Both methods are not equivalent due to different boundary condition - in the one barrier case there exist analytical expressions showing difference. Authors generalize results to many barrier (layer) system. Instead of speaking about superluminarity we introduce into the quantum mechanics so called by us "hurdling problem": can a quantum hurdler in one dimension be faster then a sprinter (without obstacles) at the same distance. Relations between wavefunction arguments and delay or advance are shown for Nimtz systems.

id: quant-ph/0312020
title: Nonlocality of a free atomic wave packet
authors: F. Haug, M. Freyberger, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312020
abstract: A simple model allows us to study the nonclassical behavior of slowly moving atoms interacting with a quantized field. Atom and field become entangled and their joint state can be identified as a mesoscopic "Schroedinger-cat". By introducing appropriate observables for atom and field and by analyzing correlations between them based on a Bell-type inequality we can show the corresponding nonclassical behavior.

id: quant-ph/0312021
title: Quantum logic networks for probabilistic and controlled teleportation of unknown quantum states
authors: Ting Gao
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys., 42 (2004), 223-228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312021
abstract: We present simplification schemes for probabilistic and controlled teleportation of the unknown quantum states of both one-particle and two-particle and construct efficient quantum logic networks for implementing the new schemes by means of the primitive operations consisting of single-qubit gates, two-qubit controlled-not gates, Von Neumann measurement and classically controlled operations. In these schemes the teleportation are not always successful but with certain probability.

id: quant-ph/0312022
title: Quantum Search Algorithm with more Reliable Behaviour using Partial Diffusion
authors: Ahmed Younes, Jon Rowe, Julian Miller
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, pp. 171 -- 174 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312022
abstract: In this paper, we will use a quantum operator which performs the inversion about the mean operation only on a subspace of the system ({\it Partial Diffusion Operator}) to propose a quantum search algorithm runs in $O(\sqrt N/M})$ for searching unstructured list of size $N$ with $M$ matches such that, $1\le M \le N$. We will show that the performance of the algorithm is more reliable than known quantum search algorithms especially for multiple matches within the search space. A performance comparison with Grover's algorithm will be provided.

id: quant-ph/0312023
title: Mixed State Geometric Phase from Thomas Rotations
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 23 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A37 (2004) 4593-4605
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312023
abstract: It is shown that Uhlmann's parallel transport of purifications along a path of mixed states represented by $2\times 2$ density matrices is just the path ordered product of Thomas rotations. These rotations are invariant under hyperbolic translations inside the Bloch sphere that can be regarded as the Poincar\'e ball model of hyperbolic geometry. A general expression for the mixed state geometric phase for an {\it arbitrary} geodesic triangle in terms of the Bures fidelities is derived. The formula gives back the solid angle result well-known from studies of the pure state geometric phase. It is also shown that this mixed state anholonomy can be reinterpreted as the pure state non-Abelian anholonomy of entangled states living in a suitable restriction of the quaternionic Hopf bundle. In this picture Uhlmann's parallel transport is just Pancharatnam transport of quaternionic spinors.

id: quant-ph/0312024
title: Separability in Asymmetric Phase-Covariant Cloning
authors: A. T. Rezakhani, S. Siadatnejad, A. H. Ghaderi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 336, 278 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312024
abstract: Here, asymmetric phase-covariant quantum cloning machines are defined and trade-off between qualities of their outputs and its impact on entanglement properties of the outputs are studies. In addition, optimal families among these cloners are introduced and also their entanglement properties are investigated. An explicit proof of optimality is presented for the case of qubits, which is based on the no-signaling condition. Our optimality proof can also be used to derive an upper bound on trade-off relations for a more general class of optimal cloners which clone states on a specific orbit of the Bloch sphere. It is shown that the optimal cloners of the equatorial states, as in the case of symmetric phase-covariant cloning, give rise to two separable clones, and in this sense these states are unique. For these cloners it is shown that total output is of GHZ-type.

id: quant-ph/0312025
title: Generalised coherent states of spinning relativistic particles
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 25 pages, extended discussion of previous bibliography; final version to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A37:8619,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312025
abstract: We construct coherent states of the massless and massive representations of the Poincar\'e group. They are parameterised by points on the classical state space of spinning particles. Their properties are explored, with special emphasis on the geometrical structures on the state space.

id: quant-ph/0312026
title: What is a quantum really like?
authors: Ghenadie N. Mardari
comments: Forthcoming in "Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations - 3", Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2005, AIP Proceedings (vol. no. tbd)
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 810 (2006), 360.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312026
abstract: The hypothesis of quantum self-interference is not directly observable, but has at least three necessary implications. First, a quantum entity must have no less than two open paths. Second, the size of the interval between any two consecutive quanta must be irrelevant. Third, which-path information must not be available to any observer. All of these predictions have been tested and found to be false. A similar demonstration is provided for the hypothesis of quantum erasure. In contrast, if quanta are treated as real particles, acting as sources of real waves, then all types of interference can be explained with a single causal mechanism, without logical or experimental inconsistencies.

id: quant-ph/0312027
title: Stopping Light All-Optically
authors: Mehmet Fatih Yanik, Shanhui Fan
comments: 18 pages including 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312027
abstract: We show that light pulses can be stopped and stored all-optically, with a process that involves an adiabatic and reversible pulse bandwidth compression occurring entirely in the optical domain. Such a process overcomes the fundamental bandwidth-delay constraint in optics, and can generate arbitrarily small group velocities for light pulses with a given bandwidth, without the use of any coherent or resonant light-matter interactions. We exhibit this process in optical resonator systems, where the pulse bandwidth compression is accomplished only by small refractive index modulations performed at moderate speeds. (Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett. Submitted on Sept. 10th 2003)

id: quant-ph/0312028
title: Physics of singular points in quantum mechanics
authors: Izumi Tsutsui, Tamas Fulop
comments: Latex, 18 pages, 8 figures; for the proceedings of the conference Non-locality of Quantum Mechanics and Statistical Inference, September 8-9, 2003, Kyoto Sangyo University, Kyoto, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312028
abstract: Defects or junctions in materials serve as a source of interactions for particles, and in idealized limits they may be treated as singular points yielding contact interactions. In quantum mechanics, these singularities accommodate an unexpectedly rich structure and thereby provide a variety of physical phenomena, especially if their properties are controlled properly. Based on our recent studies, we present a brief review on the physical aspects of such quantum singularities in one dimension. Among the intriguing phenomena that the singularities admit, we mention strong vs weak duality, supersymmetry, quantum anholonomy (Berry phase), and a copying process by anomalous caustics. We also show that a partition wall as a singularity in a potential well can give rise to a quantum force which exhibits an interesting temperature behavior characteristic to the particle statistics.

id: quant-ph/0312029
title: Reply to comment on Y-00 quantum secure communication protocol
authors: Osamu Hirota
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312029
abstract: In 2000, an attractive new quantum cryptography was discovered by H.P.Yuen, which can realize secure communication with high speeds and at long distance by conventional optical devices. Recently, a criticism of the Yuen protocol, so called Y-00, was made by Nishioka, and Imai group(Mitsubishi and University of Tokyo), and they claimed Y-00 is essentially a classical stream cipher. This paper shows that the claim is incorrect. In particular, it is shown that the relation $l_i=r_i\oplus \tilde{k}_i$, which is their basis for attack, has no essential role for any security analysis. In addition, we give a brief introduction of the general logic for the security of Y-00 as direct encryption and also for key generation. Several industries have started to make a test-bed of Y-00 for digital optical fiber highway, following Kumar's leading work. We hope that this discussion encourages experimental works which realize a secure communication against quantum computer and quantum attacks based on physical principle.

id: quant-ph/0312030
title: Integrability and PT-symmetry of $N$-Body Systems with Spin-coupling $¦Ä$-Interactions
authors: Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 7 pages, Latex
journal: Czech J. Phys. 53(2003)1027-1034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312030
abstract: We study the PT-symmetric boundary conditions for "spin"-related $\delta$-interactions and the corresponding integrability for both bosonic and fermionic many-body systems. The spectra and bound states are discussed in detail for spin-1/2 particle systems.

id: quant-ph/0312031
title: Canonical Form and Separability of PPT States in 2xMxN Composite Quantum Systems
authors: X.H. Wang, S.M. Fei, Z.X. Wang, K. Wu
comments: 11 pages, Latex
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 1(2003)337-347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312031
abstract: We investigate the canonical forms of positive partial transposition (PPT) density matrices in ${\cal C}^2 \otimes {\cal C}^M \otimes {\cal C}^N$ composite quantum systems with rank $N$. A general expression for these PPT states are explicitly obtained. From this canonical form a sufficient separability condition is presented.

id: quant-ph/0312032
title: Bunching of Photons When Two Beams Pass Through a a Beam Splitter
authors: K.T. McDonald, L.J. Wang
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312032
abstract: Dirac has written "Each photon then interferes only with itself. Interference between two different photons never occurs." Indeed, a practical definition is that "classical" optics consists of phenomena due to the interference of photons only with themselves. However, photons obey Bose statistics which implies a ``nonclassical'' tendency for them to ``bunch''. For a simple example of nonclassical optical behavior, we consider two pulses of photons of a single frequency that are simultaneously incident on two sides of a lossless, 50:50 beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0312033
title: Quantum Systems and Alternative Unitary Descriptions
authors: G.Marmo, A.Simoni, F.Ventriglia
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312033
abstract: Motivated by the existence of bi-Hamiltonian classical systems and the correspondence principle, in this paper we analyze the problem of finding Hermitian scalar products which turn a given flow on a Hilbert space into a unitary one. We show how different invariant Hermitian scalar products give rise to different descriptions of a quantum system in the Ehrenfest and Heisenberg picture.

id: quant-ph/0312034
title: Time of arrival with resonances: Beyond scattering states
authors: Lucas Lamata, Juan Leon
comments: Based on a talk given at the CFIF Workshop:" Time asymmetric quantum theory: The theory of resonances". Lisbon, July 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312034
abstract: Assorted questions: Time as a parameter in Quantum Mechanics. No-Go theorems for a time operator. Localization, time and causality. Causality violation. Localization again. Lesson 1: Evading the troubles: Im E finite. Lights and shadows of a time operator:"Table-top Spacetime" quantum mechanics. Biphotons at Berkeley. Time operator build-up. Good news - bad news. Lesson 2: We need the resonances to tell one.

id: quant-ph/0312035
title: Bell's inequality and the coincidence-time loophole
authors: Jan-Ake Larsson, Richard Gill
comments: revtex4, 3 figures, v2: epl document class, reformatted w slight changes
journal: Europhysics Letters, vol 67, pp. 707-713 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312035
abstract: This paper analyzes effects of time-dependence in the Bell inequality. A generalized inequality is derived for the case when coincidence and non-coincidence [and hence whether or not a pair contributes to the actual data] is controlled by timing that depends on the detector settings. Needless to say, this inequality is violated by quantum mechanics and could be violated by experimental data provided that the loss of measurement pairs through failure of coincidence is small enough, but the quantitative bound is more restrictive in this case than in the previously analyzed "efficiency loophole."

id: quant-ph/0312036
title: Uncertainties in the Measurement of the Momentum and Position of an Electron
authors: Kirk T. McDonald
comments: 1 page, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312036
abstract: It has been suggested that the uncertainty in the measurement of a particle's momentum could be made arbitrarily small by observing the particle at two ends of an arbitrarily long flight path. However, consideration of the nature of the detection process shows that the usual limits of the uncertainty principle hold independent of the length of the flight path.

id: quant-ph/0312037
title: Electron Bubbles in Liquid Helium
authors: Kirk T. McDonald
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312037
abstract: When an electron (or positronium atom) is injected into liquid helium with nearly zero energy, a bubble quickly forms around it. This phenomenon (which also occurs in liquid hydrogen, liquid neon and possibly in solid helium) lowers the mobility of the electron to a value similar to that for a positive ion. We estimate the radius of the bubble at zero pressure and temperature based on the zero point energy of the electron. If the liquid is held in a state of negative pressure, the bubble will expand beyond the radius at zero pressure. We also estimate the negative pressure such that a bubble once formed will grow without limit.

id: quant-ph/0312038
title: Hertzian Dipole Radiation via the Weizsacker-Williams Model
authors: Kirk T. McDonald, Max S. Zolotorev
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312038
abstract: We use the Weizsacker-Williams method to deduce the radiated power, and its angular distribution, emitted by an electron of charge that undergoes simple harmonic motion.

id: quant-ph/0312039
title: Entanglement and Quantum Phases in the Anisotropic Ferromagnetic Heisenberg Chain in the Presence of Domain Walls
authors: F.C. Alcaraz, A. Saguia, M.S. Sarandy
comments: v3: 7 pages, including 4 figures and 1 table. Published version. v2: One section (V) added and references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032333 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312039
abstract: We discuss entanglement in the spin-1/2 anisotropic ferromagnetic Heisenberg chain in the presence of a boundary magnetic field generating domain walls. By increasing the magnetic field, the model undergoes a first-order quantum phase transition from a ferromagnetic to a kink-type phase, which is associated to a jump in the content of entanglement available in the system. Above the critical point, pairwise entanglement is shown to be non-vanishing and independent of the boundary magnetic field for large chains. Based on this result, we provide an analytical expression for the entanglement between arbitrary spins. Moreover the effects of the quantum domains on the gapless region and for antiferromagnetic anisotropy are numerically analysed. Finally multiparticle entanglement properties are considered, from which we establish a characterization of the critical anisotropy separating the gapless regime from the kink-type phase.

id: quant-ph/0312040
title: Comment on "Quantum entropy and special relativity" [by A. Peres, P. F. Scudo, and D. R. Terno, Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 230402 (2002)]
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: version probably to appear in Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 078901 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312040
abstract: Two subtleties of this paper are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0312041
title: Calculation of Band Edge Eigenfunctions and Eigenvalues of Periodic Potentials through the Quantum Hamilton - Jacobi Formalism
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 21 pages, 5 tables
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, 19, No. 27, 2047 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312041
abstract: We obtain the band edge eigenfunctions and the eigenvalues of solvable periodic potentials using the quantum Hamilton - Jacobi formalism. The potentials studied here are the Lam{\'e} and the associated Lam{\'e} which belong to the class of elliptic potentials. The formalism requires an assumption about the singularity structure of the quantum momentum function $p$, which satisfies the Riccati type quantum Hamilton - Jacobi equation, $ p^{2} -i \hbar \frac{d}{dx}p = 2m(E- V(x))$ in the complex $x$ plane. Essential use is made of suitable conformal transformations, which leads to the eigenvalues and the eigenfunctions corresponding to the band edges in a simple and straightforward manner. Our study reveals interesting features about the singularity structure of $p$, responsible in yielding the band edge eigenfunctions and eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0312042
title: Statistical Inverse Problem: Root Approach
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, 2nd Asia-Pacific Workshop on Quantum Information Science, Singapore, National University of Singapore, 15-19 December 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312042
abstract: Multiparametric statistical model providing stable reconstruction of parameters by observations is considered. The only general method of this kind is the root model based on the representation of the probability density as a squared absolute value of a certain function, which is referred to as a psi-function in analogy with quantum mechanics. The psi-function is represented by an expansion in terms of an orthonormal set of functions. It is shown that the introduction of the psi-function allows one to represent the Fisher information matrix as well as statistical properties of the estimator of the state vector (state estimator) in simple analytical forms. The chi-square test is considered to test the hypotheses that the estimated vector converges to the state vector of a general population. The method proposed may be applied to its full extent to solve the statistical inverse problem of quantum mechanics (root estimator of quantum states). In order to provide statistical completeness of the analysis, it is necessary to perform measurements in mutually complementing experiments (according to the Bohr terminology). The maximum likelihood technique and likelihood equation are generalized in order to analyze quantum mechanical experiments. It is shown that the requirement for the expansion to be of a root kind can be considered as a quantization condition making it possible to choose systems described by quantum mechanics from all statistical models consistent, on average, with the laws of classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0312043
title: New Challenges and Directions in Casimir Force Experiments
authors: Davide Iannuzzi, Ian Gelfand, Mariangela Lisanti, Federico Capasso
comments: 6 pages, invited contribution to the 6th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT03), Norman, Oklahoma, September 15-19, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312043
abstract: This article is divided in three sections. In the first section we briefly review some high precision experiments on the Casimir force, underlying an important aspect of the analysis of the data. In the second section we discuss our recent results in the measurement of the Casimir force using non-trivial materials. In the third section we present some original ideas for experiments on new phenomena related to the Casimir effects.

id: quant-ph/0312044
title: Partiality in physics
authors: Bob Coecke, Keye Martin
comments: Invited talk at "Quantum theory: Reconsideration of the foundations II", Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2003. (19 pages, 2 pictures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312044
abstract: We revisit the standard axioms of domain theory with emphasis on their relation to the concept of partiality, explain how this idea arises naturally in probability theory and quantum mechanics, and then search for a mathematical setting capable of providing a satisfactory unification of the two.

id: quant-ph/0312045
title: Probabilistic cloning and signalling
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Anirban Roy
comments: Replaced with revised version, 3 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312045
abstract: We give a proof of impossibility of probabilistic exact $1\to 2$ cloning of any three different states of a qubit. The simplicity of the proof is due to the use of a surprising result of remote state preparation [M.-Yong Ye, Y.-Sheng Zhang and G.-Can Guo, quant-ph/0307027 (2003)]. The result is extented to higher dimentional cases for special ensemble of states.

id: quant-ph/0312046
title: Comment on "Quantum nonlocality for a three-particle nonmaximally entangled state without inequalities"
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: REVTeX4, 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312046
abstract: In a recent Brief Report, Zheng [S-B. Zheng, PRA 66, 014103 (2002)] has given a proof of nonlocality without using inequalities for three spin-1/2 particles in the nonmaximally entangled state |psi> = cos\theta |+++> + i sin\theta |-->. Here we show that Zheng's proof is not correct. Indeed it is the case that, for the experiment considered by Zheng, the only state that admits a nonlocality proof without inequalities is the maximally entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0312047
title: Entanglement as a signature of quantum chaos
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Shohini Ghose, Barry C Sanders, Bambi Hu
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 016217 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312047
abstract: We explore the dynamics of entanglement in classically chaotic systems by considering a multiqubit system that behaves collectively as a spin system obeying the dynamics of the quantum kicked top. In the classical limit, the kicked top exhibits both regular and chaotic dynamics depending on the strength of the chaoticity parameter $\kappa$ in the Hamiltonian. We show that the entanglement of the multiqubit system, considered for both bipartite and pairwise entanglement, yields a signature of quantum chaos. Whereas bipartite entanglement is enhanced in the chaotic region, pairwise entanglement is suppressed. Furthermore, we define a time-averaged entangling power and show that this entangling power changes markedly as $\kappa$ moves the system from being predominantly regular to being predominantly chaotic, thus sharply identifying the edge of chaos. When this entangling power is averaged over initial states, it yields a signature of global chaos. The qualitative behavior of this global entangling power is similar to that of the classical Lyapunov exponent.

id: quant-ph/0312048
title: Measuring a photonic qubit without destroying it
authors: G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, A. G. White, S. D. Bartlett, T. C. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.92:190402,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312048
abstract: Measuring the polarisation of a single photon typically results in its destruction. We propose, demonstrate, and completely characterise a \emph{quantum non-demolition} (QND) scheme for realising such a measurement non-destructively. This scheme uses only linear optics and photo-detection of ancillary modes to induce a strong non-linearity at the single photon level, non-deterministically. We vary this QND measurement continuously into the weak regime, and use it to perform a non-destructive test of complementarity in quantum mechanics. Our scheme realises the most advanced general measurement of a qubit: it is non-destructive, can be made in any basis, and with arbitrary strength.

id: quant-ph/0312049
title: Quantum fluctuations in superresolving microscopy with squeezed light
authors: Vladislav N. Beskrovnyy, Mikhail I. Kolobov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Proceedings of the Eighth International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relation (ICSSUR'8, Puebla, Mexico, 2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312049
abstract: We numerically investigate the role of quantum fluctuations in superresolution of optical objects. First, we confirm that when quantum fluctuations are not taken into account, one can easily improve the resolution by one order of magnitude beyond the diffraction limit. Then we investigate the standard quantum limit of superresolution which is achieved for illumination of an object by a light wave in a coherent state. We demonstrate that this limit can be beyond the diffraction limit. Finally, we show that further improvement of superresolution beyond the standard quantum limit is possible using the object illumination by a multimode squeezed light.

id: quant-ph/0312050
title: The Langevin equation from Markovian Quantum Central Limits
authors: John Gough
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. Vol. 254, no.2, 489-512, March 2005 (second half of paper)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312050
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. The central result is now included in quant-ph/0309056 (as in the journal publication!). An erratum on the Heisenberg perturbation series estimate is also included therein.

id: quant-ph/0312051
title: The general structure and ergodic properties of quantum and classical mechanics: A unified C*-algebraic approach
authors: Rocco Duvenhage
comments: PhD thesis, University of Pretoria, May 2002, 87 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312051
abstract: Quantum mechanics is essentially a statistical theory. Classical mechanics, however, is usually not viewed as being inherently statistical. Nevertheless, the latter can also be formulated statistically. Furthermore, a statistical formulation of both can be expressed in terms of unital C*-algebras, in which case it becomes clear that they have the same general structure, with quantum mechanics a noncommutative generalization of the classical case. In purely mathematical terms it is seen that quantum mechanics is a noncommutative generalization of probability theory. The most important insight in this respect is that the projection postulate of quantum mechanics is a noncommutative conditional probability. This is the subject of Chapter 1 of the thesis. As ergodic theory (the long term behaviour of a dynamical system) is done in classical probability theory, it is then also done for noncommutative probability theory in Chapter 2. In particular, generalizations of Khintchine's recurrence theorem and a variation thereof for ergodic systems are proved, as well as various characterizations of noncommutative ergodicity. Lastly, in Chapter 3, recurrence and ergodicity is then investigated from a physical perspective in quantum and classical mechanics, by means of a quantum mechanical analogue of Liouville's Theorem in classical mechanics which was suggested in Chapter 1.

id: quant-ph/0312052
title: Inequalities for experimental tests of the Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 102101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312052
abstract: We derive inequalities for $n$ spin-1/2 systems under the assumption that the hidden-variable theoretical joint probability distribution for any pair of commuting observables is equal to the quantum mechanical one. Fine showed that this assumption is connected to the no-hidden-variables theorem of Kochen and Specker (KS theorem). These inequalities give a way to experimentally test the KS theorem. The fidelity to the Bell states which is larger than 1/2 is sufficient for the experimental confirmation of the KS theorem. Hence, the Werner state is enough to test experimentally the KS theorem. Furthermore, it is possible to test the KS theorem experimentally using uncorrelated states. An $n$-partite uncorrelated state violates the $n$-partite inequality derived here by an amount that grows exponentially with $n$.

id: quant-ph/0312053
title: A Stochastic Liouville Equation Approach for the Effect of Noise in Quantum Computations
authors: Y. C. Cheng, R. J. Silbey
comments: 36 pages, 6 figures; to be submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052325 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312053
abstract: We propose a model based on a generalized effective Hamiltonian for studying the effect of noise in quantum computations. The system-environment interactions are taken into account by including stochastic fluctuating terms in the system Hamiltonian. Treating these fluctuations as Gaussian Markov processes with zero mean and delta function correlation times, we derive an exact equation of motion describing the dissipative dynamics for a system of n qubits. We then apply this model to study the effect of noise on the quantum teleportation and a generic quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. For the quantum CNOT gate, we study the effect of noise on a set of one- and two-qubit quantum gates, and show that the results can be assembled together to investigate the quality of a quantum CNOT gate operation. We compute the averaged gate fidelity and gate purity for the quantum CNOT gate, and investigate phase, bit-flip, and flip-flop errors during the CNOT gate operation. The effects of direct inter-qubit coupling and fluctuations on the control fields are also studied. We discuss the limitations and possible extensions of this model. In sum, we demonstrate a simple model that enables us to investigate the effect of noise in arbitrary quantum circuits under realistic device conditions.

id: quant-ph/0312054
title: Statistical Reconstruction of Qutrits
authors: Yu.I.Bogdanov, M.V.Chekhova, L.A.Krivitsky, S.P.Kulik, L.C.Kwek, C.H.Oh, A.N.Penin, M.K.Tey, A.A.Zhukov
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 70, 042303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312054
abstract: We discuss a procedure of measurement followed by the reproduction of the quantum state of a three-level optical system - a frequency- and spatially degenerate two-photon field. The method of statistical estimation of the quantum state based on solving the likelihood equation and analyzing the statistical properties of the obtained estimates is developed. Using the root approach of estimating quantum states, the initial two-photon state vector is reproduced from the measured fourth moments in the field . The developed approach applied to quantum states reconstruction is based on the amplitudes of mutually complementary processes. Classical algorithm of statistical estimation based on the Fisher information matrix is generalized to the case of quantum systems obeying Bohr's complementarity principle. It has been experimentally proved that biphoton-qutrit states can be reconstructed with the fidelity of 0.995-0.999 and higher.

id: quant-ph/0312055
title: Decoherence of number states in phase-sensitive reservoirs
authors: A. Serafini, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, minor changes, references added
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 18, 687 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312055
abstract: The non-unitary evolution of initial number states in general Gaussian environments is solved analytically. Decoherence in the channels is quantified by determining explicitly the purity of the state at any time. The influence of the squeezing of the bath on decoherence is discussed. The behavior of coherent superpositions of number states is addressed as well.

id: quant-ph/0312056
title: Coherent states superpositions in cavity quantum electrodynamics with trapped ions
authors: F. L. Semiao, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: Figure and typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 065802 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312056
abstract: We investigate how superpositions of motional coherent states naturally arise in the dynamics of a two-level trapped ion coupled to the quantized field inside a cavity. We extend our considerations including a more realistic set up where the cavity is not ideal and photons may leak through its mirrors. We found that a detection of a photon outside the cavity would leave the ion in a pure state. The statistics of the ionic state still keeps some interference effects that might be observed in the weak coupling regime.

id: quant-ph/0312057
title: Effects on the eigenvalues of the quantum bouncer due to dissipation
authors: G. Lopez, G. Gonzalez
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312057
abstract: Effects on the spectra of the quantum bouncer due to dissipation are given when a linear or quadratic dissipation is taken into account. Classical constant of motions and Hamiltonians are deduced for these systems and their quantized eigenvalues are estimated through perturbation theory. we found some differences when we compare the eigenvalues of these two quantities.

id: quant-ph/0312058
title: On Zurek's derivation of the Born rule
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Arthur Fine
comments: 8 pages; v2: minor clarifications added; v3: reference to Zurek's quant-ph/0405161 added. To appear in Foundations of Physics (Cushing Volume)
journal: Found. Phys. 35(2), 197-213 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312058
abstract: Recently, W. H. Zurek presented a novel derivation of the Born rule based on a mechanism termed environment-assisted invariance, or "envariance" [W. H. Zurek, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90(2), 120404 (2003)]. We review this approach and identify fundamental assumptions that have implicitly entered into it, emphasizing issues that any such derivation is likely to face.

id: quant-ph/0312059
title: Decoherence, the measurement problem, and interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer
comments: 41 pages. Final published version
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.76:1267-1305,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312059
abstract: Environment-induced decoherence and superselection have been a subject of intensive research over the past two decades, yet their implications for the foundational problems of quantum mechanics, most notably the quantum measurement problem, have remained a matter of great controversy. This paper is intended to clarify key features of the decoherence program, including its more recent results, and to investigate their application and consequences in the context of the main interpretive approaches of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0312060
title: A Rabi Oscillation in Four and Five Level Systems
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file ; 14 pages ; 1 figure ; many typos corrected. To appear in Yokohama Mathematical Journal
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal, 53(2006), 63-74
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312060
abstract: In this paper we consider a general model of an atom with n energy levels interacting with n-1 external (laser) fields which is a natural extension in the two and three level systems. We exactly solve the Schr{\" o}dinger equation to obtain a Rabi oscillation when n = 4 and 5, which will constitute a quantum logic gate of Quantum Computation based on four and five level systems.

id: quant-ph/0312061
title: Optimal quantum detectors for unambiguous detection of mixed states
authors: Yonina C. Eldar, Mihailo Stojnic, Babak Hassibi
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312061
abstract: We consider the problem of designing an optimal quantum detector that distinguishes unambiguously between a collection of mixed quantum states. Using arguments of duality in vector space optimization, we derive necessary and sufficient conditions for an optimal measurement that maximizes the probability of correct detection. We show that the previous optimal measurements that were derived for certain special cases satisfy these optimality conditions. We then consider state sets with strong symmetry properties, and show that the optimal measurement operators for distinguishing between these states share the same symmetries, and can be computed very efficiently by solving a reduced size semidefinite program.

id: quant-ph/0312062
title: Scattering theory and discrete-time quantum walks
authors: Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: 7 pages, Latex, replaced with published version
journal: Physics Letters A 324, 277 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312062
abstract: We study quantum walks on general graphs from the point of view of scattering theory. For a general finite graph we choose two vertices and attach one half line to each. We are interested in walks that proceed from one half line, through the graph, to the other. The particle propagates freely on the half lines but is scattered at each vertex in the original graph. The probability of starting on one line and reaching the other after n steps can be expressed in terms of the transmission amplitude for the graph. An example is presented.

id: quant-ph/0312063
title: Quantum Metrology: Detection of weak forces using Schrodinger Cat resources
authors: Kae Nemoto, W. J. Munro, G.J.Milburn, S. L. Braunstein
comments: Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, pg 333, ed by J H Shapiro and O Hirota, Rinton Press (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312063
abstract: We investigate the utility of non classical states of simple harmonic oscillators (a superposition of coherent states) for sensitive force detection. We find that like squeezed states a superposition of coherent states allows the detection of displacement measurements at the Heisenberg limit. Entangling many superpositions of coherent states offers a significant advantage over a single mode superposition states with the same mean photon number.

id: quant-ph/0312064
title: Spin decoherence by spacetime curvature
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 2029-2037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312064
abstract: A decoherence mechanism caused by spacetime curvature is discussed. The spin state of a particle is shown to decohere if only the particle moves in a curved spacetime. In particular, when a particle is near the event horizon of a black hole, an extremely rapid spin decoherence occurs for an observer who is static in a Killing time, however slow the particle's motion is.

id: quant-ph/0312065
title: $J$-matrix and Isolated States
authors: A. M. Shirokov, S. A. Zaytsev
comments: to be published in "$J$-matrix method and its applications" (Nova Science Publishers); 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312065
abstract: We show that a quantum system with nonlocal interaction can have bound states of unusual type -- Isolated States (IS). IS is a bound state that is not in correspondence with the $S$-matrix pole. IS can have a positive as well as a negative energy and can be treated as a generalization of the bound states embedded in continuum on the case of discrete spectrum states. The formation of IS in the spectrum of a quantum system is studied using a simple rank--2 separable potential with harmonic oscillator form factors. Some physical applications are discussed, in particular, we propose a separable $NN$ potential supporting IS that describes the deuteron binding energy and the s-wave triplet and singlet scattering phase shifts. We use this potential to examine the so-called problem of the three-body bound state collapse discussed in literature. We show that the variation of the two-body IS energy causes drastic changes of the binding energy and of the spectrum of excited states of the three-nucleon system.

id: quant-ph/0312066
title: Performance of quantum phase gates with cold trapped atoms
authors: A. Negretti, T. Calarco, M. A. Cirone, A. Recati
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312066
abstract: We examine the performance of a quantum phase gate implemented with cold neutral atoms in microtraps, when anharmonic traps are employed and the effects of finite temperature are also taken into account. Both the anharmonicity and the temperature are found to pose limitations to the performance of the quantum gate. We present a quantitative analysis of the problem and show that the phase gate has a high quality performance for the experimental values that are presently or in the near future achievable in the laboratory.

id: quant-ph/0312067
title: Toward a Quantum Process Algebra
authors: Philippe Jorrand, Marie Lalire
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312067
abstract: Quantum computations operate in the quantum world. For their results to be useful in any way, there is an intrinsic necessity of cooperation and communication controlled by the classical world. As a consequence, full formal descriptions of algorithms making use of quantum principles must take into account both quantum and classical computing components and assemble them so that they communicate and cooperate. This paper aims at defining a high level language allowing the description of classical and quantum programming, and their cooperation. Since process algebras provide a framework to model cooperating computations and have well defined semantics, they have been chosen as a basis for this language. Starting with a classical process algebra, this paper explains how to transform it for including quantum computation. The result is a quantum process algebra with its operational semantics, which can be used to fully describe quantum algorithms in their classical context.

id: quant-ph/0312068
title: Disentanglement and Decoherence by Open System Dynamics
authors: P.J.Dodd, J.J.Halliwell
comments: 15 Pages
journal: Phys Rev A 69, 052105 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312068
abstract: The destruction of quantum interference, decoherence, and the destruction of entanglement both appear to occur under the same circumstances. To address the connection between these two phenomena, we consider the evolution of arbitrary initial states of a two-particle system under open system dynamics described by a class of master equations which produce decoherence of each particle. We show that all initial states become separable after a finite time, and we produce the explicit form of the separated state. The result extends and amplifies an earlier result of Di\'osi. We illustrate the general result by considering the case in which the initial state is an EPR state (in which both the positions and momenta of a particle pair are perfectly correlated). This example clearly illustrates how the spreading out in phase space produced by the environment leads to certain disentanglement conditions becoming satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0312069
title: Scalable register initialization for quantum computing in an optical lattice
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Guido Pupillo, Ana Maria Rey, Charles W. Clark, Carl J. Williams
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B 38, 1687 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312069
abstract: The Mott insulator state created by loading an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) into an optical lattice may be used as a means to prepare a register of atomic qubits in a quantum computer. Such architecture requires a lattice commensurately filled with atoms, which corresponds to the insulator state only in the limit of zero inter-well tunneling. We show that a lattice with spatial inhomogeneity created by a quadratic magnetic trapping potential can be used to isolate a subspace in the center which is impervious to hole-hoping. Components of the wavefunction with more than one atom in any well can be projected out by selective measurement on a molecular photo-associative transition. Maintaining the molecular coupling induces a quantum Zeno effect that can sustain a commensurately filled register for the duration of a quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0312070
title: Phase-dependent decoherence of optical transitions in Pr3+:LaF3 in the presence of a driving field
authors: G. J. Pryde, M. J. Sellars, N. B. Manson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; replaced with published version
journal: Phys.Rev.B69:075107,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312070
abstract: The decoherence times of orthogonally phased components of the optical transition dipole moment in a two-level system have been observed to differ by an order of magnitude. This phase anisotropy is observed in coherent transient experiments where an optical driving field is present during extended periods of decoherence. The decoherence time of the component of the dipole moment in phase with the driving field is extended compared to T_2, obtained from two-pulse photon echoes, in analogy with the spin locking technique of NMR.

id: quant-ph/0312071
title: Introduction to the basics of entanglement theory in continuous-variable systems
authors: J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Invited contribution to the EQIS' 03 volume of the International Journal of Quantum Information. Technical problem with figures resolved
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 1, 479 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312071
abstract: We outline the basic questions that are being studied in the theory of entanglement. Following a brief review of some of the main achievements of entanglement theory for finite-dimensional quantum systems such as qubits, we will consider entanglement in infinite-dimensional systems. Asking for a theory of entanglement in such systems under experimentally feasible operations leads to the development of the theory of entanglement of Gaussian states. Results of this theory are presented and the tools that have been developed for it are applied to a number of problems.

id: quant-ph/0312072
title: Measuring Entangled Qutrits and Their Use for Quantum Bit Commitment
authors: Nathan K. Langford, Rohan B. Dalton, Michael D. Harvey, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Geoffrey J. Pryde, Alexei Gilchrist, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew G. White
comments: Paper updated to match published version; 5 pages, 4 figures, images have been included at slightly lower quality for the archive
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.93:053601,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312072
abstract: We produce and holographically measure entangled qudits encoded in transverse spatial modes of single photons. With the novel use of a quantum state tomography method that only requires two-state superpositions, we achieve the most complete characterisation of entangled qutrits to date. Ideally, entangled qutrits provide better security than qubits in quantum bit-commitment: we model the sensitivity of this to mixture and show experimentally and theoretically that qutrits with even a small amount of decoherence cannot offer increased security over qubits.

id: quant-ph/0312073
title: Cyclotomic quantum clock
authors: H.C. Rosu, M. Planat
comments: 7 pages, ICSSUR-8 (June 2003), Puebla, Mexico, Eds. H. Moya-Cessa et al
journal: Proc. ICSSUR-8, Rinton Press, ISBN 1-58949 -040-1, (Nov. 2003) pp 366-372
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312073
abstract: In the wake of our recent work on cyclotomic effects in quantum phase locking [M. Planat and H. C. Rosu, Phys. Lett. A 315, 1 (2003)], we briefly discuss here a cyclotomic extension of the Salecker and Wigner quantum clock. We also hint on a possible cyclotomic structure of time at the Planck scales

id: quant-ph/0312074
title: Estimation of Complexity for the Ohya-Masuda-Volovich SAT Algorithm
authors: Shigeo Akashi, Satoshi Iriyama
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312074
abstract: Ohya and Volovich have been proposed a new quantum computation model with chaos amplification to solve the SAT problem, which went beyond usual quantum algorithm. In this paper we study the complexity of the SAT algorithm by counting the steps of computation algorithm rigorously, which was mentioned in the paper [1,2,3,5,7]For this purpose, we refine the quantum gates treating the SAT problem step by step.

id: quant-ph/0312075
title: Graviton Emission and Loss of Coherence
authors: Giorgio Calucci
comments: 
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 21 (2004) 2339-2349
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312075
abstract: The decoherence effect due to emission of gravitons is examined. It shows the same qualitative features of the QED effect which has already been investigated, it is obviously much weaker, wholly universal and shows a stronger energy dependence. The result can be extended to photons, they also may undergo decoherence due to graviton emission. For this limited aim the incomplete status of the quantum gravity, in comparison with QED, is not source of severe difficulties because all the effects are attributed to the infrared sector of the dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0312076
title: Designing robust gate implementations for quantum information processing
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg
comments: RevTeX 4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312076
abstract: Quantum information processing systems are often operated through time dependent controls; choosing these controls in a way that makes the resulting operation insensitive to variations in unknown or uncontrollable system parameters is an important prerequisite for obtaining high-fidelity gate operations. In this article we present a numerical method for constructing such robust control sequences for a quite general class of quantum information processing systems. As an application of the method we have designed a robust implementation of a phase-shift operation central to rare earth quantum computing, an ensemble quantum computing system proposed by Ohlsson et. al. [Opt. Comm. 201, 71 (2002)]. In this case the method has been used to obtain a high degree of insensitivity with respect to differences between ensemble members, but it is equally well suited for quantum computing with a single physical system.

id: quant-ph/0312077
title: Quantum averaging and resonances: two-level atom in a one-mode quantized field
authors: M. Amniat-Talab, S. Guerin, H.R. Jauslin
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312077
abstract: We construct a non-perturbative approach based on quantum averaging combined with resonant transformations to detect the resonances of a given Hamiltonian and to treat them. This approach, that generalizes the rotating-wave approximation, takes into account the resonances at low field and also at high field (non-linear resonances). This allows to derive effective Hamiltonians that contain the qualitative features of the spectrum, i.e. crossings and avoided crossings, as a function of the coupling constant. At a second stage the precision of the spectrum can be improved quantitatively by standard perturbative methods like contact transformations. We illustrate this method to determine the spectrum of a two-level atom interacting with a single mode of a quantized field.

id: quant-ph/0312078
title: Conserved Current Densities, Localization Probabilities, and a New Global Gauge Symmetry of Klein-Gordon Fields
authors: A. Mostafazadeh, F. Zamani
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312078
abstract: For free Klein-Gordon fields, we construct a one-parameter family of conserved current densities $J_a^\mu$, with $a\in(-1,1)$, and use the latter to yield a manifestly covariant expression for the most general positive-definite and Lorentz-invariant inner product on the space of solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation. Employing a recently developed method of constructing the Hilbert space and observables for Klein-Gordon fields, we then obtain the probability current density ${\cal J}_a^\mu$ for the localization of a Klein-Gordon field in space. We show that in the nonrelativistic limit both $J_a^\mu$ and ${\cal J}_a^\mu$ tend to the probability current density for the localization of a nonrelativistic free particle in space, but that unlike $J_a^\mu$ the current density ${\cal J}_a^\mu$ is neither covariant nor conserved. Because the total probability may be obtained by integrating either of these two current densities over the whole space, the conservation of the total probability may be viewed as a consequence of the local conservation of $J_a^\mu$. The latter is a manifestation of a previously unnoticed global gauge symmetry of the Klein-Gordon fields. The corresponding gauge group is U(1) if the parameter $a$ is rational. It is the multiplicative group of positive real numbers if $a$ is irrational. We also discuss an extension of our results to Klein-Gordon fields minimally coupled to an electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0312079
title: Exact Solutions of Holonomic Quantum Computation
authors: Shogo Tanimura, Daisuke Hayashi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 11 pages, re-organized to be more comprehensive, references added, style file of Physics Letters A is needed
journal: Physics Letters A 325 (2004) 199-205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312079
abstract: Holonomic quantum computation is analyzed from geometrical viewpoint. We develop an optimization scheme in which an arbitrary unitary gate is implemented with a small circle in a complex projective space. Exact solutions for the Hadamard, CNOT and 2-qubit discrete Fourier transform gates are explicitly constructed.

id: quant-ph/0312080
title: Pulse-driven near-resonant quantum adiabatic dynamics: lifting of quasi-degeneracy
authors: L. P. Yatsenko, S. Guerin, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312080
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a two-level system driven by a pulse that starts near-resonant for small amplitudes, yielding nonadiabatic evolution, and induces an adiabatic evolution for larger amplitudes. This problem is analyzed in terms of lifting of degeneracy for rising amplitudes. It is solved exactly for the case of linear and exponential rising. Approximate solutions are given in the case of power law rising. This allows us to determine approximative formulas for the lineshape of resonant excitation by various forms of pulses such as truncated trig-pulses. We also analyze and explain the various superpositions of states that can be obtained by the Half Stark Chirped Rapid Adiabatic Passage (Half-SCRAP) process.

id: quant-ph/0312081
title: Continuity of quantum conditional information
authors: R. Alicki, M. Fannes
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor changes in the title and the text
journal: J.Phys.A:Math.Gen.37 (2004) L55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312081
abstract: We prove continuity of quantum conditional information $S(\rho^{12}| \rho^2)$ with respect to the uniform convergence of states and obtain a bound which is independent of the dimension of the second party. This can, e.g., be used to prove the continuity of squashed entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0312082
title: Recurrent fourth-order interference dips and peaks with a comb-like two-photon entangled state
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Silvia Viciani, Marco Bellini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Revised version, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 023806 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312082
abstract: We demonstrate full selective control over the constructive or destructive character of fourth-order recurring interferences in a modified version of a HOM interferometer using comb-like two-photon states. The comb spectral/temporal structure is obtained by inserting an etalon cavity in the signal path of an entangled photon pair obtained by pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Both a simple qualitative discussion and a complete theoretical derivation are used to explain and analyze the experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0312083
title: Mimicking Time Evolution within a Quantum Ground State: Ground-State Quantum Computation, Cloning, and Teleportation
authors: Ari Mizel
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312083
abstract: Ground-state quantum computers mimic quantum mechanical time evolution within the amplitudes of a time-independent quantum state. We explore the principles that constrain this mimicking. A no-cloning argument is found to impose strong restrictions. It is shown, however, that there is flexibility that can be exploited using quantum teleportation methods to improve ground-state quantum computer design.

id: quant-ph/0312084
title: Photon statistics characterization of a single photon source
authors: Romain Alleaume, Francois Treussart, Jean-Michel Courty, Jean-Francois Roch
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 6, 85 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312084
abstract: n a recent experiment, we reported the time-domain intensity noise measurement of a single photon source relying on single molecule fluorescence control. In this article we present data processing, starting from photocount timestamps. The theoretical analytical expression of the time-dependent Mandel parameter Q(T) of an intermittent single photon source is derived from ON<->OFF dynamics . Finally, source intensity noise analysis using the Mandel parameter is quantitatively compared to the usual approach relying on the time autocorrelation function, both methods yielding the same molecular dynamical parameters.

id: quant-ph/0312085
title: New Exactly Solvable Isospectral Partners for PT Symmetric Potentials
authors: Anjana Sinha, Pinaki Roy
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, To be published in Journal of Physics A (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312085
abstract: We examine in detail the possibilty of applying Darboux transformation to non Hermitian hamiltonians. In particular we propose a simple method of constructing exactly solvable PT symmetric potentials by applying Darboux transformation to higher states of an exactly solvable PT symmetric potential. It is shown that the resulting hamiltonian and the original one are pseudo supersymmetric partners. We also discuss application of Darboux transformation to hamiltonians with spontaneously broken PT symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0312086
title: Wigner quasi-probability distribution for the infinite square well: energy eigenstates and time-dependent wave packets
authors: M. Belloni, M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 45 pages, 16 embedded, low-resolution .eps figures (higher resolution, publication quality figures are available from the authors); submitted to American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312086
abstract: We calculate the Wigner quasi-probability distribution for position and momentum, P_W^(n)(x,p), for the energy eigenstates of the standard infinite well potential, using both x- and p-space stationary-state solutions, as well as visualizing the results. We then evaluate the time-dependent Wigner distribution, P_W(x,p;t), for Gaussian wave packet solutions of this system, illustrating both the short-term semi-classical time dependence, as well as longer-term revival and fractional revival behavior and the structure during the collapsed state. This tool provides an excellent way of demonstrating the patterns of highly correlated Schrodinger-cat-like `mini-packets' which appear at fractional multiples of the exact revival time.

id: quant-ph/0312087
title: Entanglement purification for arbitrary unknown ionic states via linear optics
authors: Ming Yang, Wei Song, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012308 (2005) (6 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312087
abstract: An entanglement purification scheme for arbitrary unknown(mixed and pure non-maximally) entangled ionic states is proposed by using linear optical elements. The main advantage of the scheme is that not only two-ion maximally entangled pairs but also four-ion maximally entangled pairs can be extracted from the less entangled pairs. The scheme is within current technology.

id: quant-ph/0312088
title: Analysis and interpretation of high transverse entanglement in optical parametric down conversion
authors: C. K. Law, J. H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312088
abstract: Quantum entanglement associated with transverse wave vectors of down conversion photons is investigated based on the Schmidt decomposition method. We show that transverse entanglement involves two variables: orbital angular momentum and transverse frequency. We show that in the monochromatic limit high values of entanglement are closely controlled by a single parameter resulting from the competition between (transverse) momentum conservation and longitudinal phase matching. We examine the features of the Schmidt eigenmodes, and indicate how entanglement can be enhanced by suitable mode selection methods.

id: quant-ph/0312089
title: Generation of exactly solvable non-Hermitian potentials with real energies
authors: Anjana Sinha, Pinaki Roy
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, Based on the talk presented at the 1st International Workshop "Psedo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics", held in Prague, June 16, 17, 2003. To be published in Czech. J. Phys. (Jan. 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312089
abstract: A series of exactly solvable non-trivial complex potentials (possessing real spectra) are generated by applying the Darboux transformation to the excited eigenstates of a non-Hermitian potential V(x). This method yields an infinite number of non-trivial partner potentials, defined over the whole real line, whose spectra are nearly exactly identical to the original potential.

id: quant-ph/0312090
title: Casimir force between a sphere and a plane: spectral representation formalism
authors: Cecilia Noguez, C. E. Roman-Velazquez
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the 6th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT03), Norman, Oklahoma, September 15-19, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312090
abstract: We develop a spectral representation formalism to calculate the Casimir force in the non-retarded limit, between a spherical particle and a substrate, both with arbitrary local dielectric properties. This spectral formalism allows one to do a systematic study of the force as a function of the geometrical variables separately from the dielectric properties. We found that the force does not follow a simple power-law as a function of the separation between the sphere and substrate. As a consequence, the non-retarded Casimir force is enhanced by several orders of magnitude as the sphere approaches the substrate, while at large separations the dipolar term dominates the force.

id: quant-ph/0312091
title: Existence of incomparable pure bipartite states in infinite dimensional systems
authors: Masaki Owari, Keiji Matsumoto, Mio Murao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312091
abstract: Based on set theoretic ordering properties, a general formulation for constructing a pair of convertibility monotones, which are generalizations of distillable entanglement and entanglement cost, is presented. The new pair of monotones do not always coincide for pure bipartite infinite dimensional states under SLOCC (stochastic local operations and classical communications), demonstrating the existence of SLOCC incomparable pure bipartite states, a new property of entanglement in infinite dimensional systems, with no counterpart in the corresponding finite dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0312092
title: Mesoscopic Superposition of States with Sub-Planck Structures in Phase Space
authors: G. S. Agarwal, P. K. Pathak
comments: 4-page 3-figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053813 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312092
abstract: We propose a method using the dispersive interaction between atoms and a high quality cavity to realize the mesoscopic superposition of coherent states which would exhibit sub-Planck structures in phase space. In particular we focus on a superposition involving four coherent states. We show interesting interferences in the conditional measurements involving two atoms.

id: quant-ph/0312093
title: Group Velocity of a Probe Light in an Ensemble of Lambda Atoms under Two-Photon Resonance
authors: Y. Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 051802(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312093
abstract: We study the propagation of a probe light in an ensemble of $\Lambda$-type atoms, utilizing the dynamic symmetry as recently discovered when the atoms are coupled to a classical control field and a quantum probe field {[Sun {\it et al.,} Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 91}, 147903 (2003)]}. Under two-photon resonance, we calculate the group velocity of the probe light with collective atomic excitations. Our result gives the dependence of the group velocity on the common one-photon detuning, and can be compared with the recent experiment (E. E. Mikhailov, Y. V. Rostovtsev, and G. R. Welch, quant-ph/0309173).

id: quant-ph/0312094
title: Geometry of decomposition dependent evolutions of mixed states
authors: David Kult, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Small typographical corrections, journal reference added
journal: Int. J. Quantum Comp. 2, 247 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312094
abstract: We examine evolutions where each component of a given decomposition of a mixed quantal state evolves independently in a unitary fashion. The geometric phase and parallel transport conditions for this type of decomposition dependent evolution are delineated. We compare this geometric phase with those previously defined for unitarily evolving mixed states, and mixed state evolutions governed by completely positive maps.

id: quant-ph/0312095
title: Quantum information entropies of the eigenstates and the coherent state of the P?schl-Teller potential
authors: Rajneesh Atre, Anil Kumar, C. Nagaraja Kumar, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: Revtex4, 11 pages, 11 eps figures and a table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052107 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312095
abstract: The position and momentum space information entropies, of the ground state of the P\"oschl-Teller potential, are exactly evaluated and are found to satisfy the bound, obtained by Beckner, Bialynicki-Birula and Mycielski. These entropies for the first excited state, for different strengths of the potential well, are then numerically obtained. Interesting features of the entropy densities, owing their origin to the excited nature of the wave functions, are graphically demonstrated. We then compute the position space entropies of the coherent state of the P\"oschl-Teller potential, which is known to show revival and fractional revival. Time evolution of the coherent state reveals many interesting patterns in the space-time flow of information entropy.

id: quant-ph/0312096
title: Geometrical and physical properties of maths-type q-deformed coherent states for $0<q<1$ or $q > 1$
authors: C. Quesne, K.A. Penson, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 5 pages + 2 figures; figures added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 322 (2004) 402-404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312096
abstract: We compare the geometrical and physical properties of the maths-type coherent states for $q>1$ with those of the same for $0 < q < 1$.

id: quant-ph/0312097
title: Probabilistic Quantum Encoder for Single-Photon Qubits
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312097
abstract: We describe an experiment in which a physical qubit represented by the polarization state of a single-photon was probabilistically encoded in the logical state of two photons. The experiment relied on linear optics, post-selection, and three-photon interference effects produced by a parametric down-conversion photon pair and a weak coherent state. An interesting consequence of the encoding operation was the ability to observe entangled three-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states.

id: quant-ph/0312098
title: Parity Measurements, Decoherence and Spiky Wigner Functions
authors: A. M. Ozorio de Almeida, O. Brodier
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312098
abstract: Notwithstanding radical conceptual differences between classical and quantum mechanics, it is usually assumed that physical measurements concern observables common to both theories . Not so with the eigenvalues ($\pm 1$) of the parity operator. The effect of such a measurement on a mixture of even and odd states of the harmonic oscillator is akin to separating at a single stroke a pair of shuffled card decks: the result is a set of definite parity, though otherwise mixed. The Wigner function should be a sensitive probe for this phenomenon, for it can be interpreted as the expectation value of the parity operator. We here derive the general form of Wigner functions $W_{\pm}$, resulting from an ideal parity measurement on $W(\x)$. Even if $W(\x)$ resembles a classical distribution, $W_{\pm}$ displays a quantum spike, which is positive for $W_+$ and negative for $W_-$. However we conjecture that $W_+$ always has negative values.

id: quant-ph/0312099
title: Disentanglement by Dissipative Open System Dynamics
authors: P.J. Dodd
comments: Paper in conjunction with and following on from P.J. Dodd and J.J. Halliwell: quant-ph/0312068
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312099
abstract: This paper investigates disentanglement as a result of evolution according to a class of master equations which include dissipation and interparticle interactions. Generalizing an earlier result of Di\'{o}si, the time taken for complete disentanglement is calculated (i.e. for disentanglement from any other system). The dynamics of two harmonically coupled oscillators is solved in order to study the competing effects of environmental noise and interparticle coupling on disentanglement. An argument based on separability conditions for gaussian states is used to arrive at a set of conditions on the couplings sufficient for all initial states to disentangle for good after a finite time.

id: quant-ph/0312100
title: Quantum probabilistic teleportation via entangled coherent states
authors: Shang-Bin Li Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 309, 321 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312100
abstract: We study the entanglement of entangled coherent states in vacuum environment by employing the entanglement of formation and propose a scheme to probabilistically teleport a coherent superposition state via entangled coherent states, in which the amount of classical information sent by Alice is restricted to one bit. The influence of decoherence due to photon absorpation is considered. It is shown that decoherence can improve the mean fidelity of probabilistic teleportation in some situations.

id: quant-ph/0312101
title: Concurrence in the two dimensional XXZ- and transverse field Ising-models
authors: Olav F. Syljuasen
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, elsart
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312101
abstract: Numerical results for the concurrence and bounds on the localizable entanglement are obtained for the square lattice spin-1/2 XXZ-model and the transverse field Ising-model at low temperatures using quantum Monte Carlo.

id: quant-ph/0312102
title: Generalized Partitioned Quantum Cellular Automata and Quantization of Classical CA
authors: Shuichi Inokuchi, Yoshihiro Mizoguchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312102
abstract: In this paper, in order to investigate natural transformations from discrete CA to QCA, we introduce a new formulation of finite cyclic QCA and generalized notion of partitioned QCA. According to the formulations, we demonstrate the condition of local transition functions, which induce a global transition of well-formed QCA. Following the results, extending a natural correspondence of classical cells and quantum cells to the correspondence of classical CA and QCA, we have the condition of classical CA such that CA generated by quantumization of its cells is well-formed QCA. Finally we report some results of computer simulations of quantumization of classical CA.

id: quant-ph/0312103
title: Convolutionless Non-Markovian master equations and quantum trajectories: Brownian motion revisited
authors: Walter T. Strunz, Ting Yu
comments: 18 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052115 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312103
abstract: Stochastic Schr{\"o}dinger equations for quantum trajectories offer an alternative and sometimes superior approach to the study of open quantum system dynamics. Here we show that recently established convolutionless non-Markovian stochastic Schr{\"o}dinger equations may serve as a powerful tool for the derivation of convolutionless master equations for non-Markovian open quantum systems. The most interesting example is quantum Brownian motion (QBM) of a harmonic oscillator coupled to a heat bath of oscillators, one of the most-employed exactly soluble models of open system dynamics. We show explicitly how to establish the direct connection between the exact convolutionless master equation of QBM and the corresponding convolutionless exact stochastic Schr\"odinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0312104
title: Mean Field Approximations and Multipartite Thermal Correlations
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 6: art. no. 22 Feb. 10 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312104
abstract: The relationship between the mean-field approximations in various interacting models of statistical physics and measures of classical and quantum correlations is explored. We present a method that allows us to bound the total amount of correlations (and hence entanglement) in a physical system in thermal equilibrium at some temperature in terms of its free energy and internal energy. This method is first illustrated using two qubits interacting through the Heisenberg coupling, where entanglement and correlations can be computed exactly. It is then applied to the one dimensional Ising model in a transverse magnetic field, for which entanglement and correlations cannot be obtained by exact methods. We analyze the behavior of correlations in various regimes and identify critical regions, comparing them with already known results. Finally, we present a general discussion of the effects of entanglement on the macroscopic, thermodynamical features of solid-state systems. In particular, we exploit the fact that a $d$ dimensional quantum system in thermal equilibrium can be made to corresponds to a d+1 classical system in equilibrium to substitute all entanglement for classical correlations.

id: quant-ph/0312105
title: An exact effective two-qubit gate in a chain of three spins
authors: Man-Hong Yung, Debbie W. Leung, Sougato Bose
comments: RevTeX4, 7 pages, 4 figues
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 4, 174 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312105
abstract: We show that an effective two-qubit gate can be obtained from the free evolution of three spins in a chain with nearest neighbor XY coupling, without local manipulations. This gate acts on the two remote spins and leaves the mediating spin unchanged. It can be used to perfectly transfer an arbitrary quantum state from the first spin to the last spin or to simultaneously communicate one classical bit in each direction. One ebit can be generated in half of the time for state transfer. For longer spin chains, we present methods to create or transfer entanglement between the two end spins in half of the time required for quantum state transfer, given tunable coupling strength and local magnetic field. We also examine imperfect state transfer through a homogeneous XY chain.

id: quant-ph/0312106
title: Dirac's hole theory versus field theory for a time dependent perturbation
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312106
abstract: Dirac's hole theory (HT) and quantum field theory (QFT) are generally considered to be equivalent to each other. However, it has been recently shown that for a time independent perturbation different results are obtained when the change in the vacuum energy is calculated. Here we shall extend this discussion to include a time dependent perturbation. It will be shown that HT and QFT yield different results for the change in the vacuum energy due to a time dependent perturbation.

id: quant-ph/0312107
title: Comparative Computational Strength of Quantum Oracles
authors: Alp Atici
comments: 10 pages, revised content, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312107
abstract: It is an established fact that for many of the interesting problems quantum algorithms based on queries of the standard oracle bring no significant improvement in comparison to known classical algorithms. It is conceivable that there are other oracles of algorithmic importance acting in a less intuitive fashion to which such limitations do not apply. Thus motivated this article suggests a broader understanding towards what a general quantum oracle is. We propose a general definition of a quantum oracle and give a classification of quantum oracles based on the behavior of the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of their queries. Our aim is to determine the computational characteristics of a quantum oracle in terms of these eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Within this framework we attempt to describe the class of quantum oracles that are efficiently simulated by the standard oracle and compare the computational strength of different kinds of quantum oracles by an adversary argument using trigonometric polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0312108
title: Quantum coherence: myth or fact?
authors: Kae Nemoto, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: This work has been submitted to Physics Letters A and presented in the meeting of JPS in 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312108
abstract: It has recently been argued that the inability to measure the absolute phase of an electromagnetic field prohibits the representation of a laser's output as a quantum optical coherent state. This argument has generally been considered technically correct but conceptually disturbing. Indeed, it would seem to place in question the very concept of the coherent state. Here we show that this argument fails to take into account a fundamental principle that not only re-admits the coherent state as legitimate, but formalizes a fundamental concept about model building in general, and in quantum mechanics in particular.

id: quant-ph/0312109
title: Robustness of non-abelian holonomic quantum gates against parametric noise
authors: Paolo Solinas, Paolo Zanardi, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures Corrections in the text and substitution of the figures concerning the comparison between dynamical and geometrical gates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312109
abstract: We present a numerical study of the robustness of a specific class of non-abelian holonomic quantum gates . We take into account the parametric noise due to stochastic fluctuations of the control fields which drive the time-dependent Hamiltonian along an adiabatic loop. The performance estimator used is the state fidelity between noiseless and noisy holonomic gates. We carry over our analysis with different correlation times and we find out that noisy holonomic gates seem to be close to the noiseless ones for 'short' and 'long' noise correlation times. This result can be interpreted as a consequence of to the geometric nature of the holonomic operator. Our simulation have been performed by using parameters relevant to the excitonic proposal for implementation of holonomic quantum computation [P. Solinas et al. Phys. Rev. B 67, 121307 (2003)]

id: quant-ph/0312110
title: Relation Between Catalyst-assisted Entanglement Transformation and Multiple-copy Transformation
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 7 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312110
abstract: We show that in some cases, catalyst-assisted entanglement transformation cannot be implemented by multiple-copy transformation for pure states. This fact, together with the result we obtained in [R. Y. Duan, Y. Feng, X. Li, and M. S. Ying, Phys. Rev. A 71, 042319 (2005)] that the latter can be completely implemented by the former, indicates that catalyst-assisted transformation is strictly more powerful than multiple-copy transformation. For purely probabilistic setting we find, however, these two kinds of transformations are geometrically equivalent in the sense that the sets of pure states which can be converted into a given pure state with maximal probabilities not less than a given value have the same closure, no matter catalyst-assisted transformation or multiple-copy transformation is used.

id: quant-ph/0312111
title: Introduction to Quantum Computation
authors: Ashok Chatterjee
comments: 39 pages, 27 postscript figures, some typos corrected, requires Lyx 1.2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312111
abstract: This is an introductory review on the basic principles of quantum computation. Various important quantum logic gates and algorithms based on them are introduced. Quantum teleportation and decoherence are discussed briefly. Some problems, without solutions, are included.

id: quant-ph/0312112
title: Teleportation on a quantum dot array
authors: F. de Pasquale, G. Giorgi, S. Paganelli
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 120502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312112
abstract: We present a model of quantum teleportation protocol based on a double quantum dot array. The unknown qubit is encoded using a pair of quantum dots, coupled by tunneling, with one excess electron. It is shown how to create maximally entangled states with this kind of qubits using an adiabatically increasing Coulomb repulsion between different pairs. This entangled states are exploited to perform teleportation again using an adiabatic coupling between them and the incoming unknown state. Finally, a sudden separation of Bob's qubit enables a time evolution of Alice's state providing a modified version of standard Bell measurement. Substituting the four quantum dots entangled state with a chain of coupled DQD's, a quantum channel with high fidelity arises from this scheme allowing the transmission over long distances.

id: quant-ph/0312113
title: A Qubit on the Faraday Mirror
authors: F. De Martini, F. Sciarrino, V. Secondi
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 040301 (R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312113
abstract: In the context of Quantum Information (QI) the ''Faraday Mirror'' acts as a non-universal NOT Gate. As such its behaviour complies with the principles of quantum mechanics. This non trivial result, at the core of some recent misinterpretations in the QI community, has been reached by a thorough experimental investigation of the properties of the device including the adoption of modern Quantum Process Tomography. In addition, the ''universal optical compensation'' method devised by Mario Martinelli, of common use in long distance quantum-cryptography, has been fully investigated theoretically and experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0312114
title: Particle-number scaling of the phase sensitivity in realistic Bayesian twin-mode Heisenberg-limited interferometry
authors: Raphael Pooser, Olivier Pfister
comments: submitted for publication. six pages, ten figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 043616 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312114
abstract: We investigate the scaling of the phase sensitivity of a nonideal Heisenberg-limited interferometer with the particle number N, in the case of the Bayesian detection procedure proposed by Holland and Burnett [p.r.l. 71, p. 1355 (1993)] for twin boson input modes. Using Monte Carlo simulations for up to 10,000 bosons, we show that the phase error of a nonideal interferometer scales with the Heisenberg limit if the losses are of the order of N^-1. Greater losses degrade the scaling which is then in N^-1/2, like the shot-noise limit, yet the sensitivity stays sub-shot-noise as long as photon correlations are present. These results give the actual limits of Bayesian detection for twin-mode interferometry and prove that it is an experimentally feasible scheme, contrary to what is implied by the coincidence-detection analysis of Kim et al. [p.r.a. 60, p. 708 (1999)].

id: quant-ph/0312115
title: A Simple Set of Separable States in a Commutative Simplex
authors: I. D. Ivanovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312115
abstract: In this note a very crude but simple approximation to the set of separable states in an arbitrary simplex of commutative states is given using the fact that on the lines connecting the maximally mixed state and an arbitrary pure state the positivity of the partial transpose is both necessary and sufficient condition for separability of states. The lower limit to the volume of separable states in a simplex is slightly improved.

id: quant-ph/0312116
title: Incoherent Noise and Quantum Information Processing
authors: N. Boulant, S. Furuta, J. Emerson, T. F. Havel, D. G. Cory
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, replaced with future JCP published version
journal: J. of Chem. Phys. 121, 2955-2961 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312116
abstract: Incoherence in the controlled Hamiltonian is an important limitation on the precision of coherent control in quantum information processing. Incoherence can typically be modelled as a distribution of unitary processes arising from slowly varying experimental parameters. We show how it introduces artifacts in quantum process tomography and we explain how the resulting estimate of the superoperator may not be completely positive. We then go on to attack the inverse problem of extracting an effective distribution of unitaries that characterizes the incoherence via a perturbation theory analysis of the superoperator eigenvalue spectra.

id: quant-ph/0312117
title: The structure of Bell inequalities
authors: Guenter Schachner
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312117
abstract: We present an analysis of the structure of Bell inequalities, mainly for the case of N qubits with two observables each. We show that these inequalities are related to Hadamard matrices and define Bell polynomials (in one variable) as an additional tool. With these aids we raise several conditions the coefficients of Bell inequalities must satisfy, and recursively generate the whole set of inequalities starting from N=1. Moreover, we prove some characteristic features of this set, such as that most of the inequalities contain all expectation values under consideration. Finally, we show how the presented results can be used to construct Bell inequalities with certain properties. An outlook on further research topics concludes the paper.

id: quant-ph/0312118
title: Conditional preparation of single photons for scalable quantum-optical networking
authors: Alfred B. U'Ren, Christine Silberhorn, Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages; 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 93 093601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312118
abstract: A fundamental prerequisite for the implementation of linear optical quantum computation is a source of single-photon wavepackets capable of high-visibility interference in scalable networks. These conditions can be met with micro-structured waveguides in conjunction with ultra-short classical timing pulses. By exploiting a novel type-II phasematching configuration we demonstrate a waveguided single photon source exhibiting a conditional detection efficiency exceeding 51% (which corresponds to a preparation efficiency of 85%) and extraordinarily high detection rates of up to 8.5x10^5 coincidences/[s.mW].

id: quant-ph/0312119
title: Packet narrowing and quantum entanglement in photoionization and photodissociation
authors: M. V. Fedorov, M. A. Efremov, A. E. Kazakov, K. W. Chan, C. K. Law, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312119
abstract: The narrowing of electron and ion wave packets in the process of photoionization is investigated, with the electron-ion recoil fully taken into account. Packet localization of this type is directly related to entanglement in the joint quantum state of electron and ion, and to Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen localization. Experimental observation of such packet-narrowing effects is suggested via coincidence registration by two detectors, with a fixed position of one and varying position of the other. A similar effect, typically with an enhanced degree of entanglement, is shown to occur in the case of photodissociation of molecules.

id: quant-ph/0312120
title: Quantum chaos and random matrix theoryfor fidelity decay in quantum computationswith static imperfections
authors: Klaus M. Frahm, Robert Fleckinger, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 29 (2004) 139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312120
abstract: We determine the universal law for fidelity decayin quantum computations of complex dynamics in presenceof internal static imperfections in a quantum computer. Our approach is based on random matrix theory applied toquantum computations in presence of imperfections.The theoretical predictions are tested and confirmed in extensive numerical simulations of a quantum algorithm for quantum chaos in the dynamical tent map with up to 18 qubits. The theory developed determines the time scales forreliable quantum computations in absence of the quantum error correction codes. These time scales are related to the Heisenberg time, the Thouless time, and the decay time given by Fermi's golden rule which are well known in the context of mesoscopic systems. The comparison is presented for static imperfection effects and random errors in quantum gates. A new convenientmethod for the quantum computation of the coarse-grained Wigner function is also proposed.

id: quant-ph/0312121
title: Generalized Intelligent States for Nonlinear Oscillators
authors: A. H. El Kinani, M. Daoud
comments: 
journal: IJMPB, Vol 15, 2465-2483 (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312121
abstract: The construction of Generalized Intelligent States (GIS) for the $x^4$% -anharmonic oscillator is presented. These GIS families are required to minimize the Robertson-Schr\"odinger uncertainty relation. As a particular case, we will get the so-called Gazeau-Klauder coherent states. The properties of the latters are discussed in detail. Analytical representation is also considered and its advantage is shown in obtaining the GIS in an analytical way. Further extensions are finally proposed.

id: quant-ph/0312122
title: Coherent and generalized intelligent states for infinite square well potential and nonlinear oscillators
authors: A. H. El Kinani, M. Daoud
comments: 
journal: IJMPB, Vol 16, 3915-3937 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312122
abstract: This article is an illustration of the construction of coherent and generalized intelligent states which has been recently proposed by us for an arbitrary quantum system $[ 1] $. We treat the quantum system submitted to the infinite square well potential and the nonlinear oscillators. By means of the analytical representation of the coherent states \`{a} la Gazeau-Klauder and those \`{a} la Klauder-Perelomov, we derive the generalized intelligent states in analytical ways.

id: quant-ph/0312123
title: Many copies may be required for entanglement distillation
authors: John Watrous
comments: 4 pages; major revisions, title changed, main result unchanged. Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312123
abstract: A mixed quantum state shared between two parties is said to be distillable if, by means of a protocol involving only local quantum operations and classical communication, the two parties can transform some number of copies of that state into a single shared pair of qubits having high fidelity with a maximally entangled state state. In this paper it is proved that there exist states that are distillable, but for which an arbitrarily large number of copies is required before any distillation procedure can produce a shared pair of qubits with even a small amount of entanglement. Specifically, for every positive integer n there exists a state that is distillable, but given n or fewer copies of that state every distillation procedure outputting a single shared pair of qubits will output those qubits in a separable state. Essentially all previous examples of states proved to be distillable were such that some distillation procedure could output an entangled pair of qubits given a single copy of the state in question.

id: quant-ph/0312124
title: Contextual, Optimal and Universal Realization of the Quantum Cloning Machine and of the NOT gate
authors: Francesco De Martini, Daniele Pelliccia, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 067901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312124
abstract: A simultaneous realization of the Universal Optimal Quantum Cloning Machine (UOQCM) and of the Universal-NOT gate by a quantum injected optical parametric amplification (QIOPA), is reported. The two processes, forbidden in their exact form for fundamental quantum limitations, are found universal and optimal, and the measured fidelity F<1 is found close to the limit values evaluated by quantum theory. This work may enlighten the yet little explored interconnections of fundamental axiomatic properties within the deep structure of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0312125
title: Magnetic field effects on the optimal fidelity of standard teleportation via the two qubits Heisenberg XX chain in thermal equilibrium
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312125
abstract: We study the two qubits Heisenberg XX chain with magnetic impurity in the presence of the external magnetic field and calculate the optimal fidelity of standard teleportation via the thermal equilibrium state. It is found that the combined influence of magnetic impurity and external magnetic field can increase the critical temperatures of entanglement and quantum teleportation without limit. The relation between two kinds of critical temperatures is revealed.

id: quant-ph/0312126
title: Statics and Dynamics of Quantum XY and Heisenberg Systems on Graphs
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, minor corrections and solution of new model, added figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 094411 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312126
abstract: We consider the statics and dynamics of distinguishable spin-1/2 systems on an arbitrary graph G with N vertices. In particular, we consider systems of quantum spins evolving according to one of two hamiltonians: (i) the XY hamiltonian H_XY, which contains an XY interaction for every pair of spins connected by an edge in G; and (ii) the Heisenberg hamiltonian H_Heis, which contains a Heisenberg interaction term for every pair of spins connected by an edge in G. We find that the action of the XY (respectively, Heisenberg) hamiltonian on state space is equivalent to the action of the adjacency matrix (respectively, combinatorial laplacian) of a sequence G_k, k=0,..., N of graphs derived from G (with G_1=G). This equivalence of actions demonstrates that the dynamics of these two models is the same as the evolution of a free particle hopping on the graphs G_k. Thus we show how to replace the complicated dynamics of the original spin model with simpler dynamics on a more complicated geometry. A simple corollary of our approach allows us to write an explicit spectral decomposition of the XY model in a magnetic field on the path consisting of N vertices. We also use our approach to utilise results from spectral graph theory to solve new spin models: the XY model and heisenberg model in a magnetic field on the complete graph.

id: quant-ph/0312127
title: Quantum phases of a qutrit
authors: A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, H. de Guise, G. Bjork
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 4097--4106 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312127
abstract: We consider various approaches to treat the phases of a qutrit. Although it is possible to represent qutrits in a convenient geometrical manner by resorting to a generalization of the Poincare sphere, we argue that the appropriate way of dealing with this problem is through phase operators associated with the algebra su(3). The rather unusual properties of these phases are caused by the small dimension of the system and are explored in detail. We also examine the positive operator-valued measures that can describe the qutrit phase properties.

id: quant-ph/0312128
title: Quantum dense key distribution
authors: I. P. Degiovanni, I. Ruo Berchera, S. Castelletto, M. L. Rastello, F. A. Bovino, A. M. Colla, G. Castagnoli
comments: to appear on PRA with minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312128
abstract: This paper proposes a new protocol for quantum dense key distribution. This protocol embeds the benefits of a quantum dense coding and a quantum key distribution and is able to generate shared secret keys four times more efficiently than BB84 one. We hereinafter prove the security of this scheme against individual eavesdropping attacks, and we present preliminary experimental results, showing its feasibility.

id: quant-ph/0312129
title: Correlated motion of two atoms trapped in a single mode cavity field
authors: J. K. Asb¨®th, P. Domokos, H. Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A. Minor grammatical changes to previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 013414 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312129
abstract: We study the motion of two atoms trapped at distant positions in the field of a driven standing wave high-Q optical resonator. Even without any direct atom-atom interaction the atoms are coupled through their position dependent influence on the intracavity field. For sufficiently good trapping and low cavity losses the atomic motion becomes significantly correlated and the two particles oscillate in their wells preferentially with a 90 degrees relative phase shift. The onset of correlations seriously limits cavity cooling efficiency, raising the achievable temperature to the Doppler limit. The physical origin of the correlation can be traced back to a cavity mediated cross-friction, i.e. a friction force on one particle depending on the velocity of the second particle. Choosing appropriate operating conditions allows for engineering these long range correlations. In addition this cross-friction effect can provide a basis for sympathetic cooling of distant trapped clouds.

id: quant-ph/0312130
title: Storing quantum information using dark state polaritons
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312130
abstract: The possibility of using a solid medium to store few-photon laser pulses as coupled excitations between light and matter is investigated. The role of inhomogeneous broadening and nonadiabaticity are considered, and conditions governing the feasibility of the scheme are derived. The merits of a number of classes of solid are examined.

id: quant-ph/0312131
title: Quantum Computer with Mixed States and Four-Valued Logic
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 17 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A. Vol.35. No.25. (2002) 5207-5236
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312131
abstract: In this paper we discuss a model of quantum computer in which a state is an operator of density matrix and gates are general quantum operations, not necessarily unitary. A mixed state (operator of density matrix) of n two-level quantum systems is considered as an element of 4^n-dimensional operator Hilbert space (Liouville space). It allows to use a quantum computer model with four-valued logic. The gates of this model are general superoperators which act on n-ququat state. Ququat is a quantum state in a four-dimensional (operator) Hilbert space. Unitary two-valued logic gates and quantum operations for an n-qubit open system are considered as four-valued logic gates acting on n-ququat. We discuss properties of quantum four-valued logic gates. In the paper we study universality for quantum four-valued logic gates.

id: quant-ph/0312132
title: Operations and single particle interferometry
authors: Johan Aberg
comments: Journal reference added. Material added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 70, 012103 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312132
abstract: Interferometry of single particles with internal degrees of freedom is investigated. We discuss the interference patterns obtained when an internal state evolution device is inserted into one or both the paths of the interferometer. The interference pattern obtained is not uniquely determined by the completely positive maps (CPMs) that describe how the devices evolve the internal state of a particle. By using the concept of gluing of CPMs, we investigate the structure of all possible interference patterns obtainable for given trace preserving internal state CPMs. We discuss what can be inferred about the gluing, given a sufficiently rich set of interference experiments. It is shown that the standard interferometric setup is limited in its abilities to distinguish different gluings. A generalized interferometric setup is introduced with the capacity to distinguish all gluings. We also connect to another approach using the well known fact that channels can be realized using a joint unitary evolution of the system and an ancillary system. We deduce the set of all such unitary `representations' and relate the structure of this set to gluings and interference phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0312133
title: Propagating Quantum Walks: the origin of interference structures
authors: P.L.Knight, E.Roldan, J.E. Sipe
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51 (2004) 1761-1777
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312133
abstract: We analyze the solution of the coined quantum walk on a line. First, we derive the full solution, for arbitrary unitary transformations, by using a new approach based on the four "walk fields" which we show determine the dynamics. The particular way of deriving the solution allows a rigorous derivation of a long wavelength approximation. This long wavelength approximation is useful as it provides an approximate analytical expression that captures the basics of the quantum walk and allows us to gain insight into the physics of the process.

id: quant-ph/0312134
title: Transmission of Quantum Images Through Long Distances
authors: M. P. Almeida, P.H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312134
abstract: We report on an experiment demonstrating the principle for transmitting quantum images through long distances. Signal and idler beams carrying correlated images have natural divergences that can be compensated by the use of collimating lenses and at the same time preserving the information contained in their correlated angular spectra.

id: quant-ph/0312135
title: Homodyne tomography characterization and nonlocality of a dual-mode optical qubit
authors: S. A. Babichev, J. Appel, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: V2: rewritten according to referee comments
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 193601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312135
abstract: A single photon, delocalized over two optical modes, is characterized by means of quantum homodyne tomography. The reconstructed four-dimensional density matrix extends over the entire Hilbert space and thus reveals, for the first time, complete information about the dual-rail optical quantum bit as a state of the electromagnetic field. The experimental data violate the Bell inequality albeit with a loophole similar to the detection loophole in photon counting experiments.

id: quant-ph/0312136
title: Understanding Deutsch's probability in a deterministic multiverse
authors: Hilary Greaves
comments: 34 pages (excluding bibliography); no figures. To appear in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, Septamber 2004. Replaced to include changes made during referee and editorial review (abstract extended; arrangement and presentation of material in sections 4.1, 5.3, 5.4 altered significantly; minor changes elsewhere)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312136
abstract: Difficulties over probability have often been considered fatal to the Everett interpretation of quantum mechanics. Here I argue that the Everettian can have everything she needs from `probability' without recourse to indeterminism, ignorance, primitive identity over time or subjective uncertainty: all she needs is a particular *rationality principle*. The decision-theoretic approach recently developed by Deutsch and Wallace claims to provide just such a principle. But, according to Wallace, decision theory is itself applicable only if the correct attitude to a future Everettian measurement outcome is subjective uncertainty. I argue that subjective uncertainty is not to be had, but I offer an alternative interpretation that enables the Everettian to live without uncertainty: we can justify Everettian decision theory on the basis that an Everettian should *care about* all her future branches. The probabilities appearing in the decision-theoretic representation theorem can then be interpreted as the degrees to which the rational agent cares about each future branch. This reinterpretation, however, reduces the intuitive plausibility of one of the Deutsch-Wallace axioms (Measurement Neutrality).

id: quant-ph/0312137
title: Entanglement characteristics of subharmonic modes reflected from cavity for type II second harmonic generation
authors: Zehui Zhai, Yongming Li, Jiangrui Gao
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A 69,044301(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312137
abstract: Quantum fluctuation and quantum entanglement of the pump field reflected from an optical cavity for type II second harmonic generation are theoretically analyzed. The correlation spectra between the quadratures of the reflected subharmonic fields are interpreted in terms of pump parameter, intracavity losses and normalized frequency. Large correlation degrees of both amplitude and phase quadratures can be accessed in a triple resonant cavity before the pitchfork bifurcation occurs. The two reflected subharmonic fields are in an entangled state with the quantum correlation of phase quadratures and anticorrelation of amplitude quadratures. The proposed system can be exploited to be a new source generating entangled states of continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0312138
title: Reply to Cereceda's comment on "Quantum nonlocality for a three-particle nonmaximally entangled state without inequaltiy"
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312138
abstract: This is to reply to Cereceda's comment on "Quantum nonlocality for a three-particle nonmaximally entangled state without inequaltiy"

id: quant-ph/0312139
title: Electron spin detection in the frequency domain under the interrupted Oscillating Cantilever-driven Adiabatic Reversal (iOSCAR) Protocol
authors: M. Ting, A. O. Hero, D. Rugar, C. Y. Yip, J. A. Fessler
comments: 11 pages, Version 2: Removed extraneous author information, Version 3: Corrected references, Version 4: Re-arranged references and some cosmetic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312139
abstract: Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (MRFM) is an emergent technology for measuring spin-induced attonewton forces using a micromachined cantilever. In the interrupted Oscillating Cantilever-driven Adiabatic Reversal (iOSCAR) method, small ensembles of electron spins are manipulated by an external radio frequency (RF) magnetic field to produce small periodic deviations in the resonant frequency of the cantilever. These deviations can be detected by frequency demodulation, followed by conventional amplitude or energy detection. In this paper, we develop optimal detectors for several signal models that have been hypothesized for measurements induced by iOSCAR spin manipulation. We show that two simple variants of the energy detector--the filtered energy detector and a hybrid filtered energy/amplitude/energy detector--are approximately asymptotically optimal for the Discrete-Time (D-T) random telegraph signal model assuming White Gaussian Noise (WGN). For the D-T random walk signal model, the filtered energy detector performs close to the optimal Likelihood Ratio Test (LRT) when the transition probabilities are symmetric.

id: quant-ph/0312140
title: Dynamics of a large spin with weak dissipation
authors: T. Vorrath, T. Brandes, B. Kramer
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Chemical Physics Special Issue on the Spin-Boson Problem, ed. by H. Grabert and A. Nitzan
journal: Chemical Physics 296, 295 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312140
abstract: We investigate the generalization of the spin-boson model to arbitrary spin size. The Born-Markov approximation is employed to derive a master equation in the regime of small coupling strengths to the environment. For spin one half, the master equation transforms into a set of Bloch equations, the solution of which is in good agreement with results of the spin-boson model for weak ohmic dissipation. For larger spins, we find a superradiance-like behavior known from the Dicke model. The influence of the nonresonant bosons of the dissipative environment can lead to the formation of a beat pattern in the dynamics of the $z$-component of the spin. The beat frequency is approximately proportional to the cutoff $\omega_c$ of the spectral function.

id: quant-ph/0312141
title: The Propagation of Quantum Information Through a Spin System
authors: Tobias J. Osborne, Noah Linden
comments: 7 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312141
abstract: It has been recently suggested that the dynamics of a quantum spin system may provide a natural mechanism for transporting quantum information. We show that one dimensional rings of qubits with fixed (time-independent) interactions, constant around the ring, allow high fidelity communication of quantum states. We show that the problem of maximising the fidelity of the quantum communication is related to a classical problem in fourier wave analysis. By making use of this observation we find that if both communicating parties have access to limited numbers of qubits in the ring (a fraction that vanishes in the limit of large rings) it is possible to make the communication arbitrarily good.

id: quant-ph/0312142
title: Covariant fuzzy observables and coarse-graining
authors: T. Heinonen, P. Lahti, K. Ylinen
comments: 19 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 53 (2004) 425-441.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312142
abstract: A fuzzy observable is regarded as a smearing of a sharp observable, and the structure of covariant fuzzy observables is studied. It is shown that the covariant coarse-grainings of sharp observables are exactly the covariant fuzzy observables. A necessary and sufficient condition for a covariant fuzzy observable to be informationally equivalent to the corresponding sharp observable is given.

id: quant-ph/0312143
title: Quantum signatures of breather-breather interactions
authors: J. Dorignac, J. C. Eilbeck, M. Salerno, A. C. Scott
comments: 4 pages, 4 figs
journal: Phys Rev Letts. 93, 025504 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312143
abstract: The spectrum of the Quantum Discrete Nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation on a periodic 1D lattice shows some interesting detailed band structure which may be interpreted as the quantum signature of a two-breather interaction in the classical case. We show that this fine structure can be interpreted using degenerate perturbation theory.

id: quant-ph/0312144
title: Dynamical tunneling of bound systems through a potential barrier: complex way to the top
authors: F. Bezrukov, D. Levkov
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, version to appear in JETP
journal: J.Exp.Theor.Phys.98:820-836,2004; Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz.125:938-956,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312144
abstract: A semiclassical method of complex trajectories for the calculation of the tunneling exponent in systems with many degrees of freedom is further developed. It is supplemented with an easily implementable technique, which enables one to single out the physically relevant trajectory from the whole set of complex classical trajectories. The method is applied to semiclassical transitions of a bound system through a potential barrier. We find that the properties of physically relevant complex trajectories are qualitatively different in the cases of potential tunneling at low energy and dynamical tunneling at energies exceeding the barrier height. Namely, in the case of high energies, the physically relevant complex trajectories describe tunneling via creation of a state close to the top of the barrier. The method is checked against exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation in a quantum mechanical system of two degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0312145
title: Quantum and classical features in the explanation of collisional decoherence
authors: B. Vacchini
comments: 4 pages, latex, no figures, to appear in J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51 (2004) 1025-1029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312145
abstract: A most simple theoretical argument is given in order to explain the quantitative estimate of the effect of collisional decoherence in matter-wave interferometry. The argument highlights the relevance of quantum and classical features in the description of the phenomenon, showing in particular the connection between the formula used for the experimental fit and the loss term in the classical linear Boltzmann equation.

id: quant-ph/0312146
title: Geometric phase for mixed states: a differential geometric approach
authors: S. Chaturvedi, E. Ercolessi, G. Marmo, G. Morandi, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 22 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312146
abstract: A new definition and interpretation of geometric phase for mixed state cyclic unitary evolution in quantum mechanics are presented. The pure state case is formulated in a framework involving three selected Principal Fibre Bundles, and the well known Kostant-Kirillov-Souriau symplectic structure on (co) adjoint orbits associated with Lie groups. It is shown that this framework generalises in a natural and simple manner to the mixed state case. For simplicity, only the case of rank two mixed state density matrices is considered in detail. The extensions of the ideas of Null Phase Curves and Pancharatnam lifts from pure to mixed states are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0312147
title: Quantum dynamics in single spin measurement
authors: Stefano Mancini, David Vitali, Hector Moya-Cessa
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 054406 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312147
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a model for the single-spin measurement in magnetic-resonance force microscopy. We consider an oscillating driven cantilever coupled with the magnetic moment of the sample. Then, the cantilever is damped through an external bath and its readout is provided by a radiation field. Conditions for reliable measurements will be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0312148
title: Energy-dependent Hamiltonians and their pseudo-Hermitian interpretation
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Hynek Bila, Vit Jakubsky
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312148
abstract: The concept of energy-dependent forces in quantum mechanics is re-analysed. We suggest a simplification of their study via the representation of each self-adjoint and energy-dependent Hamiltonian H=H(E) with real spectrum by an auxiliary non-Hermitian operator K which remains energy-independent. Practical merits of such an approach to the Schroedinger equations with energy-dependent potentials are illustrated using their quasi-exactly solvable example.

id: quant-ph/0312149
title: A probabilistic and information theoretic interpretation of quantum evolutions
authors: J. Oppenheim, B. Reznik
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 70 022312 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312149
abstract: In quantum mechanics, outcomes of measurements on a state have a probabilistic interpretation while the evolution of the state is treated deterministically. Here we show that one can also treat the evolution as being probabilistic in nature and one can measure `which unitary' happened. Likewise, one can give an information-theoretic interpretation to evolutions by defining the entropy of a completely positive map. This entropy gives the rate at which the informational content of the evolution can be compressed. One cannot compress this information and still have the evolution act on an unknown state, but we demonstrate a general scheme to do so probabilistically. This allows one to generalize super-dense coding to the sending of quantum information. One can also define the ``interaction-entanglement'' of a unitary, and concentrate this entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0312150
title: No-signalling-based version of Zurek's derivation of quantum probabilities: A note on "Environment-assisted invariance, entanglement, and probabilities in quantum physics"
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312150
abstract: Zurek has derived the quantum probabilities for Schmidt basis states of bipartite quantum systems in pure joint states, from the assumption that they should be not be affected by one party's action if the action can be undone by the other party (``envariance of probability'') and an auxiliary assumption. We argue that a natural generalization of the auxiliary assumption is actually strong enough to yield the Born rule itself, but that Zurek's argument and protocol can be adapted to do without this assumption, at the cost of using envariance of probability in both directions. We consider alternative motivations for envariance, one based on the no-signalling constraint that actions on one subsystem of a quantum system not allow signalling to another subsystem entirely distinct from the first, and another which is perhaps strongest in the context of a relative-state interpretation of quantum mechanics. In part because of this, we argue that the relative appeal of our version and the original version of Zurek's argument depends in part upon whether one interprets the quantum formalism in terms of relative states or definite measurement outcomes.

id: quant-ph/0312151
title: Handedness of complex PT-symmetric potential barriers
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 9 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A324 (2004) 152-158
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312151
abstract: Generally, when imaginary part of an optical potential is non-symmetric the reflectivity, $R(E)$, shows left/right handedness, further if it is not negative-definite the reflection and transmission, $T(E)$, coefficients become anomalous in some energy intervals and absorption is indefinite ($\pm$). We find that the complex PT-symmetric potentials could be exceptional in this regard. They may act effectively like an absorptive potential for any incident energy provided the particle enters from the preferred (absorptive) side.

id: quant-ph/0312152
title: Time-dependent Displaced and Squeezed Number States
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex4, 9pages, no figure; to be published in J. Korean Phys. Soc
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 44 (2004) 446-450
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312152
abstract: We generalize the wave functions of the displaced and squeezed number states, found by Nieto, to a time-dependent harmonic oscillator with variable mass and frequency. These time-dependent displaced and squeezed number states are obtained by first squeezing and then displacing the exact number states and are exact solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Further, these wave functions are the time-dependent squeezed harmonic-oscillator wave functions centered at classical trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0312153
title: Polarization enhancement in $\vec{d}(\vec{p}$,$^2$He)n reaction: Nuclear teleportation
authors: S. Hamieh
comments: 3 pages, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) L59-L61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312153
abstract: I show that an experimental technique used in nuclear physics may be successfully applied to quantum teleportation (QT) of spin states of massive matter. A new non-local physical effect the `quantum-teleportation-effect' is discovered for the nuclear polarization measurement. Enhancement of the neutron polarization is expected in the proposed experiment for QT that discriminates {\it only} one of the Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0312154
title: Quantum Information approach to the Ising model
authors: P. ?telmachovi?, V. Bu?ek
comments: More detailed discussions on the non-analytical behavior. Corrected typos. Shorter version without some appendices accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312154
abstract: We present detailed analytical calculations for an 1D Ising ring of arbitrary number of spin-1/2 particles, in order to reveal entanglement properties of the stationary states. We show that the ground state and specific eigenstates of the Ising Hamiltonian posses remarkable entanglement properties that can reveal new insight into quantum correlations present in the Ising model. This correlations might be exploited in quantum information processing. We propose an intuitive picture of the behaviour of multipartite entanglement and discuss a relation of our results to some aspects of phase transitions in the Ising model.

id: quant-ph/0312155
title: Nonlocality and information flow: The approach of Deutsch and Hayden
authors: C. G. Timpson
comments: 26 pages, LaTeX, uses amsmath; 4 .eps figures
journal: Foundations of Physics 35(2):313-343 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312155
abstract: Deutsch and Hayden claim to have provided an account of quantum mechanics which is particularly local, and which clarifies the nature of information transmission in entangled quantum systems. In this paper, a perspicuous description of their formalism is offered and their claim assessed. It proves essential to distinguish, as Deutsch and Hayden do not, between two ways of interpreting the formalism. On the first, conservative, interpretation, no benefits with respect to locality accrue that are not already available on either an Everettian or a statistical interpretation; and the conclusions regarding information flow are equivocal. The second, ontological, interpretation, offers a framework with the novel feature that global properties of quantum systems are reduced to local ones; but no conclusions follow concerning information flow in more standard quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0312156
title: Light-Matter Quantum Interface
authors: K. Hammerer, K. Molmer, E.S. Polzik, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRA 70, 044304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312156
abstract: We propose a quantum interface which applies multiple passes of a pulse of light through an atomic sample with phase/polarization rotations in between the passes. Our proposal does not require nonclassical light input or measurements on the system, and it predicts rapidly growing unconditional entanglement of light and atoms from just coherent inputs. The proposed interface makes it possible to achieve a number of tasks within quantum information processing including teleportation between light and atoms, quantum memory for light and squeezing of atomic and light variables.

id: quant-ph/0312157
title: Quantum Probability from Subjective Likelihood: improving on Deutsch's proof of the probability rule
authors: David Wallace
comments: 23 pages. This is a modified version of my 2003 paper, which incorporates a completely rewritten and substantially improved proof of Equivalence as well as a few other more minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312157
abstract: I present a proof of the quantum probability rule from decision-theoretic assumptions, in the context of the Everett interpretation. The basic ideas behind the proof are those presented in Deutsch's recent proof of the probability rule, but the proof is simpler and proceeds from weaker decision-theoretic assumptions. This makes it easier to discuss the conceptual ideas involved in the proof, and to show that they are defensible.

id: quant-ph/0312158
title: Scaling behavior of interactions in a modular quantum system and the existence of local temperature
authors: M. Hartmann, J. Gemmer, G. Mahler, O. Hess
comments: 7 pages, accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 65, 613-619 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312158
abstract: We consider a quantum system of fixed size consisting of a regular chain of $n$-level subsystems, where $n$ is finite. Forming groups of $N$ subsystems each, we show that the strength of interaction between the groups scales with $N^{- 1/2}$. As a consequence, if the total system is in a thermal state with inverse temperature $\beta$, a sufficient condition for subgroups of size $N$ to be approximately in a thermal state with the same temperature is $\sqrt{N} \gg \beta \bar{\delta E}$, where $\bar{\delta E}$ is the width of the occupied level spectrum of the total system. These scaling properties indicate on what scale local temperatures may be meaningfully defined as intensive variables. This question is particularly relevant for non-equilibrium scenarios such as heat conduction etc.

id: quant-ph/0312159
title: Dynamical suppression of 1/f noise processes in qubit systems
authors: Lara Faoro, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, 3 encapsulated color figures, REVTeX4 style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312159
abstract: We investigate the capability of dynamical decoupling techniques to reduce decoherence from a realistic environment generating 1/f noise. The predominance of low frequency modes in the noise profile allows for decoherence scenarios where relatively slow control rates suffice for a drastic improvement. However, the actual figure of merit is very sensitive to the details of the dynamics, with decoupling performance which may deteriorate for non-Gaussian noise and/or high frequency working points. Our results are promising for robust solid-state qubits and beyond.

id: quant-ph/0312160
title: Causality, Entanglement, and Quantum Evolution Beyond Cauchy Horizons
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever, George Hockney
comments: RevTeX, 5 pages, 2 eps figures. Content revised and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312160
abstract: We consider a bipartite entangled system half of which falls through the event horizon of an evaporating black hole, while the other half remains coherently accessible to experiments in the exterior region. Beyond complete evaporation, the evolution of the quantum state past the Cauchy horizon cannot remain unitary, raising the questions: How can this evolution be described as a quantum map, and how is causality preserved? The answers are subtle, and are linked in unexpected ways to the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics. We show that terrestrial experiments can be designed to constrain exactly how these laws might be altered by evaporation.

id: quant-ph/0312161
title: Oblivious transfer using quantum entanglement
authors: Guang Ping He, Z. D. Wang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012331 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312161
abstract: Based on quantum entanglement, an all-or-nothing oblivious transfer protocol is proposed and is proven to be secure. The distinct merit of the present protocol lies in that it is not based on quantum bit commitment. More intriguingly, this OT protocol does not belong to a class of protocols denied by the Lo's no-go theorem of one-sided two-party secure computation, and thus its security can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0312162
title: How to realize a universal quantum gate with trapped ions
authors: F. Schmidt-Kaler, H. H{?}ffner, M. Riebe, G.P.T. Lancaster, T. Deuschle, C. Becher, W. H{?}nsel, J. Eschner, C.F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: More detailed information as compared to Schmidt-Kaler et al., nature 422,408 (2003)
journal: Appl. Phys. B: Lasers and Optics 77, 789 - 796 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312162
abstract: We report the realization of an elementary quantum processor based on a linear crystal of trapped ions. Each ion serves as a quantum bit (qubit) to store the quantum information in long lived electronic states. We present the realization of single-qubit and of universal two-qubit logic gates. The qwo-qubit operation relies on the coupling of the ions through their collective quantized motion. A detailed description of the setup and the methods is included.

id: quant-ph/0312163
title: The band spectrum of periodic potentials with PT-symmetry
authors: Jose M. Cervero, Alberto Rodriguez
comments: 14 pages, 19 included figures (13 coloured). Submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, 10167 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312163
abstract: A real band condition is shown to exist for one dimensional periodic complex non-hermitian potentials exhibiting PT-symmetry. We use an exactly solvable ultralocal periodic potential to obtain the band structure and discuss some spectral features of the model, specially those concerning the role of the imaginary parameters of the couplings. Analytical results as well as some numerical examples are provided.

id: quant-ph/0312164
title: On optimal quantum codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Thomas Beth, Martin Roetteler
comments: Accepted for publication in the International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 2, No. 1 (2004), pp. 55-64
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312164
abstract: We present families of quantum error-correcting codes which are optimal in the sense that the minimum distance is maximal. These maximum distance separable (MDS) codes are defined over q-dimensional quantum systems, where q is an arbitrary prime power. It is shown that codes with parameters [[n,n-2d+2,d]]_q exist for all 3 <= n <= q and 1 <= d <= n/2+1. We also present quantum MDS codes with parameters [[q^2,q^2-2d+2,d]]_q for 1 <= d <= q which additionally give rise to shortened codes [[q^2-s,q^2-2d+2-s,d]]_q for some s.

id: quant-ph/0312165
title: Quantum noise limited interferometric measurement of atomic noise: towards spin squeezing on the Cs clock transition
authors: Daniel Oblak, Jens K. Mikkelsen, Wolfgang Tittel, Anton K. Vershovski, Jens L. Sorensen, Plamen G. Petrov, Carlos L. Garrido Alzar, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 12 pages and 9 figures, accepted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312165
abstract: We investigate theoretically and experimentally a nondestructive interferometric measurement of the state population of an ensemble of laser cooled and trapped atoms. This study is a step towards generation of (pseudo-) spin squeezing of cold atoms targeted at the improvement of the Caesium clock performance beyond the limit set by the quantum projection noise of atoms. We calculate the phase shift and the quantum noise of a near resonant optical probe pulse propagating through a cloud of cold 133Cs atoms. We analyze the figure of merit for a quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of the collective pseudo-spin and show that it can be expressed simply as a product of the ensemble optical density and the pulse integrated rate of the spontaneous emission caused by the off-resonant probe light. Based on this, we propose a protocol for the sequence of operations required to generate and utilize spin squeezing for the improved atomic clock performance via a QND measurement on the probe light. In the experimental part we demonstrate that the interferometric measurement of the atomic population can reach the sensitivity of the order of N_at^1/2 in a cloud of N_at cold atoms, which is an important benchmark towards the experimental realisation of the theoretically analyzed protocol.

id: quant-ph/0312166
title: Sensitivity of a cavityless optomechanical system
authors: Rachele Fermani, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, RevTex file, 2 eps figures, provisionally accepted by Phys. Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 045801 (2004) (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312166
abstract: We study the possibility of revealing a weak coherent force by using a pendular mirror as a probe, and coupling this to a radiation field, which acts as the meter, in a cavityless configuration. We determine the sensitivity of such a scheme and show that the use of an entangled meter state greatly improves the ultimate detection limit. We also compare this scheme with that involving an optical cavity.

id: quant-ph/0312167
title: Optimal reconstruction of a pure qubit state with local measurements
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, A. Monras, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 8 pages, talk delivered at the 8th ICSSUR, Puebla (Mexico)
journal: Proceedings of the 8th ICSSUR, Rinton Press 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312167
abstract: We analyse the reconstruction of an unknown pure qubit state. We derive the optimal guess that can be inferred from any set of measurements on N identical copies of the system with the fidelity as a figure of merit. We study in detail the estimation process with individual von Neumann measurements and demonstrate that they are very competitive as compared to (complicated) collective measurements. We compute the expressions of the fidelity for large $N$ and show that individual measurement schemes can perform optimally in the asymptotic regime.

id: quant-ph/0312168
title: Self Focussing as a Coherence Propagation Phenomena. An Application to Calculate the Coherence Length for an Atom Laser
authors: L. M. Castellanos, F. E. Lopez
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312168
abstract: A theoretical description in terms of the coherence propagation is given for self-focussing. The concept of coherence length is defined in terms of free, self-focussing propagation giving results in accordance with well known experimental criteria for the laser. Extension of the method is given for an Atom Laser showing good results in agreement with recents numerical results of Trippenbach et. al.: J. Phys. B:At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 33, 47-54 (2000).

id: quant-ph/0312169
title: From Linear Optical Quantum Computing to Heisenberg-Limited Interferometry
authors: Hwang Lee, Pieter Kok, Colin P. Williams, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; Submitted to a Special Issue of J. Opt. B on "Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics" (Herman Haus Memorial Issue); v2: minor changes
journal: J. Opt. B 6, S796 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312169
abstract: The working principles of linear optical quantum computing are based on photodetection, namely, projective measurements. The use of photodetection can provide efficient nonlinear interactions between photons at the single-photon level, which is technically problematic otherwise. We report an application of such a technique to prepare quantum correlations as an important resource for Heisenberg-limited optical interferometry, where the sensitivity of phase measurements can be improved beyond the usual shot-noise limit. Furthermore, using such nonlinearities, optical quantum nondemolition measurements can now be carried out at the single-photon level.

id: quant-ph/0312170
title: Physically-motivated dynamical algorithms for the graph isomorphism problem
authors: Shiue-yuan Shiau, Robert Joynt, S.N. Coppersmith
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, with additions and corrections included
journal: Quantum Information and Computation,Vol 5, No. 6,(2005) 492-506
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312170
abstract: We investigate classical and quantum physics-based algorithms for solving the graph isomorphism problem. Our work integrates and extends previous work by Gudkov et al. (cond-mat/0209112) and by Rudolph (quant-ph/0206068). Gudkov et al. propose an algorithm intended to solve the graph isomorphism problem in polynomial time by mimicking a classical dynamical many-particle process. We show that this algorithm fails to distinguish pairs of non-isomorphic strongly regular graphs, thus providing an infinite class of counterexamples. We also show that the simplest quantum generalization of the algorithm also fails. However, by combining Gudkov et al.'s algorithm with a construction proposed by Rudoph in which one examines a graph describing the dynamics of two particles on the original graph, we find an algorithm that successfully distinguishes all pairs of non-isomorphic strongly regular graphs that we tested (with up to 29 vertices).

id: quant-ph/0312171
title: Analysis for practical realization of number-state manipulation by number-sum Bell measurement with linear optics
authors: Akira Kitagawa, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312171
abstract: We analyze the linear optical realization of number-sum Bell measurement and number-state manipulation by taking into account the realistic experimental situation, specifically imperfectness of single-photon detector. The present scheme for number-state manipulation is based on the number-sum Bell measurement, which is implemented with linear optical elements, i.e., beam splitters, phase shifters and zero-one-photon detectors. Squeezed vacuum states and coherent states are used as optical sources. The linear optical Bell state detector is formulated quantum theoretically with a probability operator measure. Then, the fidelity of manipulation and preparation of number-states, particularly for qubits and qutrits, is evaluated in terms of the quantum efficiency and dark count of single-photon detector. It is found that a high fidelity is achievable with small enough squeezing parameters and coherent state amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0312172
title: Coherent Eavesdropping Attacks in Quantum Cryptography: Nonequivalence of Quantum and Classical Key Distillation
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Jenn Yang Lim, Leong Chuang Kwek, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; this is the detailed account for the results Reported in quant-ph/0310156
journal: Physical Review A 72 (2005) 042315 (5 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312172
abstract: The security of a cryptographic key that is generated by communication through a noisy quantum channel relies on the ability to distill a shorter secure key sequence from a longer insecure one. We show that -- for protocols that use quantum channels of any dimension and completely characterize them by state tomography -- the noise threshold for classical advantage distillation is substantially lower than the threshold for quantum entanglement distillation because the eavesdropper can perform powerful coherent attacks. The earlier claims that the two noise thresholds are identical, which were based on analyzing incoherent attacks only, are therefore invalid.

id: quant-ph/0312173
title: Effect of the unpolarized spin state in spin-correlation measurement of two protons produced in the 12C(d,2He) reaction
authors: S. Hamieh
comments: 6 pages, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, 2004, 2777-2780
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312173
abstract: In this note we discuss the effect of the unpolarized state in the spin-correlation measurement of the $^1S_0$ two-proton state produced in 12C(d,2He) reaction at the KVI, Groningen. We show that in the presence of the unpolarized state the maximal violation of the CHSH-Bell inequality is lower than the classical limit if the purity of the state is less than $ \sim \verb+70%+$. In particular, for the KVI experiment the violation of the CHSH-Bell inequality should be corrected by a factor $\sim\verb+10%+$ from the pure $^1S_0$ state.

id: quant-ph/0312174
title: Quantum Computation, Categorical Semantics and Linear Logic
authors: Andr¨¦ van Tonder, Miquel Dorca
comments: Withdrawn: The construction of the category in section 5 contains a flaw that invalidates the assertion that Hilbert bundles provide a monoidal closed category
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312174
abstract: This preprint has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0312175
title: Control of Raman Lasing in the Nonimpulsive Regime
authors: B. J. Pearson, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v. 92, 243003 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312175
abstract: We explore coherent control of stimulated Raman scattering in the nonimpulsive regime. Optical pulse shaping of the coherent pump field leads to control over the stimulated Raman output. A model of the control mechanism is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0312176
title: Minimal assumption derivation of a Bell-type inequality
authors: Gerd Grasshoff, Samuel Portmann, Adrian Wuethrich
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; assumption 8 revised, typos corrected
journal: Br. J. Philos. Sci. 56, 663-680 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312176
abstract: John Bell showed that a big class of local hidden-variable models stands in conflict with quantum mechanics and experiment. Recently, there were suggestions that empirical adequate hidden-variable models might exist, which presuppose a weaker notion of local causality. We will show that a Bell-type inequality can be derived also from these weaker assumptions.

id: quant-ph/0312177
title: Electronic coherence theory
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Barry C. Sanders, William D. Oliver, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312177
abstract: We withdraw our paper as the factorizability of the correlation functions is unproven.

id: quant-ph/0312178
title: Physical Principles and Properties of Unstable States
authors: Piotr Kielanowski
comments: Talk given at the CFIF Workshop on Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory, July 23-26, 2003, Lisbon, Portugal. LaTeX file, uses the following packages: feynmf, amsmath, amssymb, graphicx. The package feynmf requires that metafont for the diagrams is run separately. 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312178
abstract: The main subject of the paper is the description of unstable states in quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. Unstable states in quantum field theory can only be introduced as the intermediate states and not as asymptotic states. The absence of the intermediate unstable states from the asymptotic states is compatible with unitarity. Thus the concept of an unstable state is not introduced in quantum field theory despite the fact that an unstable state has well defined linear momentum, angular momentum and other intrinsic quantum numbers. In the rigged Hilbert space quantum mechanics one can define vectors that correspond to the unstable states. These vectors are the generalized eigenvectors (kets in the rigged Hilbert space) with complex eigenvalues of the self-adjoint Hamiltonian. The real part of the eigenvalue corresponds to the mass of an unstable state and the imaginary part is one half of the total width. Such vectors form the minimally complex semigroup representation of the Poincar\'e transformations into the forward light cone.

id: quant-ph/0312179
title: Quantum time ordering and degeneracy. I: Time ordering in quantum mechanics
authors: J. H. McGuire, A. L. Godunov, Kh. Kh. Shakov, Kh. Yu. Rakhimov, A. Chalastaras
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312179
abstract: We examine how time ordering works in quantum mechanics and in classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0312180
title: Two-qubit Quantum Logic Gate in Molecular Magnets
authors: Jing-Min Hou, Li-Jun Tian, Mo-lin Ge
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett., 22, 2147(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312180
abstract: We proposed a scheme to realize a controlled-NOT quantum logic gate in a dimer of exchange coupled single-molecule magnets, $[\textrm{Mn}_4]_2$. We chosen the ground state and the three low-lying excited states of a dimer in a finite longitudinal magnetic field as the quantum computing bases and introduced a pulsed transverse magnetic field with a special frequency. The pulsed transverse magnetic field induces the transitions between the quantum computing bases so as to realize a controlled-NOT quantum logic gate. The transition rates between the quantum computing bases and between the quantum computing bases and other excited states are evaluated and analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0312181
title: Single-atom lasing induced atomic self trapping
authors: Thomas Salzburger, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312181
abstract: We study motion and field dynamics of a single-atom laser consisting of a single incoherently pumped free atom moving in an optical high-{\it Q} resonator. For sufficient pumping, the system starts lasing whenever the atom is close to a field antinode. If the field mode eigenfrequency is larger than the atomic transition frequency, the generated laser light attracts the atom to the field antinode and cools its motion. Using quantum Monte Carlo wave function simulations, we investigate this coupled atom-field dynamics including photon recoil and cavity decay. In the regime of strong coupling, the generated field shows strong nonclassical features like photon antibunching, and the atom is spatially confined and cooled to sub-Doppler temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0312182
title: Observation of Exceptional Points in Electronic Circuits
authors: T. Stehmann, W.D.Heiss, F.G. Scholtz
comments: 4 pages, latex, 3 postscript figures, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312182
abstract: Two damped coupled oscillators have been used to demonstrate the occurrence of exceptional points in a purely classical system. The implementation was achieved with electronic circuits in the kHz-range. The experimental results perfectly match the mathematical predictions at the exceptional point. A discussion about the universal occurrence of exceptional points -- connecting dissipation with spatial orientation -- concludes the paper.

id: quant-ph/0312183
title: Marginality in non-compatible random events
authors: O?ga N¨¢n¨¢siov¨¢, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312183
abstract: We present a way of introducing joint distibution function and its marginal distribution functions for non-compatible observables. Each such marginal distribution function has the property of commutativity. Models based on this approach can be used to better explain some classical phenomena in stochastic processes.

id: quant-ph/0312184
title: Decoherence of electron beams by electromagnetic field fluctuations
authors: Yehoshua Levinson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312184
abstract: Electromagnetic field fluctuations are responsible for the destruction of electron coherence (dephasing) in solids and in vacuum electron beam interference. The vacuum fluctuations are modified by conductors and dielectrics, as in the Casimir effect, and hence, bodies in the vicinity of the beams can influence the beam coherence. We calculate the quenching of interference of two beams moving in vacuum parallel to a thick plate with permittivity $\epsilon(\omega)=\epsilon_{0}+i 4\pi\sigma/\omega$. In case of an ideal conductor or dielectric $(|\epsilon|=\infty)$ the dephasing is suppressed when the beams are close to the surface of the plate, because the random tangential electric field $E_{t}$, responsible for dephasing, is zero at the surface. The situation is changed dramatically when $\epsilon_{0}$ or $\sigma$ are finite. In this case there exists a layer near the surface, where the fluctuations of $E_{t}$ are strong due to evanescent near fields. The thickness of this near - field layer is of the order of the wavelength in the dielectric or the skin depth in the conductor, corresponding to a frequency which is the inverse electron time of flight from the emitter to the detector. When the beams are within this layer their dephasing is enhanced and for slow enough electrons can be even stronger than far from the surface.

id: quant-ph/0312185
title: Generalized reduction criterion for separability of quantum states
authors: S. Albeverio, K. Chen, S.M. Fei
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 062313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312185
abstract: A new necessary separability criterion that relates the structures of the total density matrix and its reductions is given. The method used is based on the realignment method [K. Chen and L.A. Wu, Quant. Inf. Comput. 3, 193 (2003)]. The new separability criterion naturally generalizes the reduction separability criterion introduced independently in previous work of [M. Horodecki and P. Horodecki, Phys. Rev. A 59, 4206 (1999)] and [N.J. Cerf, C. Adami and R.M. Gingrich, Phys. Rev. A 60, 898 (1999)]. In special cases, it recovers the previous reduction criterion and the recent generalized partial transposition criterion [K. Chen and L.A. Wu, Phys. Lett. A 306, 14 (2002)]. The criterion involves only simple matrix manipulations and can therefore be easily applied.

id: quant-ph/0312186
title: Super-resolving phase measurements with a multi-photon entangled state
authors: M. W. Mitchell, J. S. Lundeen, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312186
abstract: Using a linear optical elements and post-selection, we construct an entangled polarization state of three photons in the same spatial mode. This state is analogous to a ``photon-number path entangled state'' and can be used for super-resolving interferometry. Measuring a birefringent phase shift, we demonstrate two- and three-fold improvements in phase resolution.

id: quant-ph/0312187
title: Sagnac interferometry based on ultra-slow polaritons in cold atomic vapors
authors: F. Zimmer, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312187
abstract: The advantages of light and matter-wave Sagnac interferometers -- large area on one hand and high rotational sensitivity per unit area on the other -- can be combined utilizing ultra-slow light in cold atomic gases. While a group-velocity reduction alone does not affect the Sagnac phase shift, the associated momentum transfer from light to atoms generates a coherent matter-wave component which gives rise to a substantially enhanced rotational signal. It is shown that matter-wave sensitivity in a large-area interferometer can be achieved if an optically dense vapor at sub-recoil temperatures is used. Already a noticeable enhancement of the Sagnac phase shift is possible however with much less cooling requirements.

id: quant-ph/0312188
title: A discrete approach to the vacuum Maxwell equations and the fine structure constant
authors: Wolfgang Orthuber
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312188
abstract: We recommended consequent discrete combinatorial research in mathematical physics. Here we show an example how discretization of partial differential equations can be done and that quickly unexpected new findings can result from research in this up to now unexplored area. We transformed the vacuum Maxwell equations into finite-difference equations, provided simple initial conditions and studied the development of the electromagnetic fields using special software (see this http URL). The development is wave-like as expected. But it is not trivial, the wave maxima have different heights. If all (by definition minimal) finite differences of the location coordinates are multiplied by numbers (coupling factors) whose squares are equal to the fine structure constant, we noticed: 1. The first two wave maxima have nearly the same height. Of course this can be also coincidental. 2. The following maxima are at first slightly decreasing and then, beginning with the 6th maximum, exponentially increasing.

id: quant-ph/0312189
title: Quantum state transfer between field and atoms in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Michel Pinard
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 69 (2004) 043810
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312189
abstract: We show that a quasi-perfect quantum state transfer between an atomic ensemble and fields in an optical cavity can be achieved in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT). A squeezed vacuum field state can be mapped onto the long-lived atomic spin associated to the ground state sublevels of the Lambda-type atoms considered. The EIT on-resonance situation show interesting similarities with the Raman off-resonant configuration. We then show how to transfer the atomic squeezing back to the field exiting the cavity, thus realizing a quantum memory-type operation.

id: quant-ph/0312190
title: Scalable Quantum Computation in the Presence of Large Detected-Error Rates
authors: E. Knill
comments: 16 pages. Version 2 corrects errors in the stabilizer code review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312190
abstract: The tolerable erasure error rate for scalable quantum computation is shown to be at least 0.292, given standard scalability assumptions. This bound is obtained by implementing computations with generic stabilizer code teleportation steps that combine the necessary operations with error correction. An interesting consequence of the technique is that the only errors that affect the maximum tolerable error rate are storage and Bell measurement errors. If storage errors are negligible, then any detected Bell measurement error below 1/2 is permissible. Another consequence of the technique is that the maximum tolerable depolarizing error rate is dominated by how well one can prepare the required encoded states. For example, if storage and Bell measurement errors are relatively small, then independent depolarizing errors with error rate close to 0.1 per qubit are tolerable in the prepared states. The implementation overhead is dominated by the efficiency with which the required encoded states can be prepared. At present, this efficiency is very low, particularly for error rates close to the maximum tolerable ones.

id: quant-ph/0312191
title: Bayesian Approach to Inverse Quantum Statistics: Reconstruction of Potentials in the Feynman Path Integral Representation of Quantum Theory
authors: J. C. Lemm, J. Uhlig, A. Weiguny
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312191
abstract: The Feynman path integral representation of quantum theory is used in a non--parametric Bayesian approach to determine quantum potentials from measurements on a canonical ensemble. This representation allows to study explicitly the classical and semiclassical limits and provides a unified description in terms of functional integrals: the Feynman path integral for the statistical operator, and the integration over the space of potentials for calculating the predictive density. The latter is treated in maximum a posteriori approximation, and various approximation schemes for the former are developed and discussed. A simple numerical example shows the applicability of the method.

id: quant-ph/0312192
title: Ultrafast Pulse Shaping Approaches to Quantum Computing
authors: Debabrata Goswami
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312192
abstract: Quantum computing exploits the quantum-mechanical nature of matter to exist in multiple possible states simultaneously. This new approach promises to revolutionize the present form of computing. As an approach to quantum computing, we discuss ultrafast laser pulse shaping, in particular, the acousto-optic modulator based Fourier-Transform pulse-shaper, which has the ability to modulate tunable high power ultrafast laser pulses. We show that optical pulse shaping is an attractive route to quantum computing since shaped pulses can be transmitted over optical hardware and the same infrastructure can be used for computation and optical information transfer. We also address the problem of extending coherence-times for optically induced processes.

id: quant-ph/0312193
title: Minimum construction of two-qubit quantum operations
authors: Jun Zhang, Jiri Vala, Shankar Sastry, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 020502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312193
abstract: Optimal construction of quantum operations is a fundamental problem in the realization of quantum computation. We here introduce a newly discovered quantum gate, B, that can implement any arbitrary two-qubit quantum operation with minimal number of both two- and single-qubit gates. We show this by giving an analytic circuit that implements a generic nonlocal two-qubit operation from just two applications of the B gate. We also demonstrate that for the highly scalable Josephson junction charge qubits, the B gate is also more easily and quickly generated than the CNOT gate for physically feasible parameters.

id: quant-ph/0312194
title: Schrodinger cats and their power for quantum information processing
authors: A. Gilchrist, Kae Nemoto, W. J. Munro, T. C. Ralph, S. Glancy, Samuel. L. Braunstein, G. J. Milburn
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; Submitted to a Special Issue of J. Opt. B on "Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics" (Herman Haus Memorial Issue)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6, S828 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312194
abstract: We outline a toolbox comprised of passive optical elements, single photon detection and superpositions of coherent states (Schrodinger cat states). Such a toolbox is a powerful collection of primitives for quantum information processing tasks. We illustrate its use by outlining a proposal for universal quantum computation. We utilize this toolbox for quantum metrology applications, for instance weak force measurements and precise phase estimation. We show in both these cases that a sensitivity at the Heisenberg limit is achievable.

id: quant-ph/0312195
title: Bichromatic electromagnetically induced transparency in cold rubidium atoms
authors: J. Wang, Yifu Zhu, K. J. Jiang, M. S. Zhan
comments: RevTex, 4 pages, 6 figures, Email address: wangjin@wipm.ac.cn
journal: Physical Review A 68, 063810 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312195
abstract: In a three-level atomic system coupled by two equal-amplitude laser fields with a frequency separation 2$\delta$, a weak probe field exhibits a multiple-peaked absorption spectrum with a constant peak separation $\delta$. The corresponding probe dispersion exhibits steep normal dispersion near the minimum absorption between the multiple absorption peaks, which leads to simultaneous slow group velocities for probe photons at multiple frequencies separated by $\delta$. We report an experimental study in such a bichromatically coupled three-level $\Lambda$ system in cold $^{87}$Rb atoms. The multiple-peaked probe absorption spectra under various experimental conditions have been observed and compared with the theoretical calculations.

id: quant-ph/0312196
title: Geometric Approach to Digital Quantum Information
authors: Chad Rigetti, Remy Mosseri, Michel Devoret
comments: Introduction rewritten; 'Sample Application' section added. To appear in J. of Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312196
abstract: We present geometric methods for uniformly discretizing the continuous N-qubit Hilbert space. When considered as the vertices of a geometrical figure, the resulting states form the equivalent of a Platonic solid. The discretization technique inherently describes a class of pi/2 rotations that connect neighboring states in the set, i.e. that leave the geometrical figures invariant. These rotations are shown to generate the Clifford group, a general group of discrete transformations on N qubits. Discretizing the N-qubit Hilbert space allows us to define its digital quantum information content, and we show that this information content grows as N^2. While we believe the discrete sets are interesting because they allow extra-classical behavior--such as quantum entanglement and quantum parallelism--to be explored while circumventing the continuity of Hilbert space, we also show how they may be a useful tool for problems in traditional quantum computation. We describe in detail the discrete sets for one and two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0312197
title: De Broglie Wavelength of a Nonlocal Four-Photon
authors: Philip Walther, Jian-Wei Pan, Markus Aspelmeyer, Rupert Ursin, Sara Gasparoni, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, submitted on November 18, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312197
abstract: Superposition is one of the most distinct features of quantum theory and has been demonstrated in numerous realizations of Young's classical double-slit interference experiment and its analogues. However, quantum entanglement - a significant coherent superposition in multiparticle systems - yields phenomena that are much richer and more interesting than anything that can be seen in a one-particle system. Among them, one important type of multi-particle experiments uses path-entangled number-states, which exhibit pure higher-order interference and allow novel applications in metrology and imaging such as quantum interferometry and spectroscopy with phase sensitivity at the Heisenberg limit or quantum lithography beyond the classical diffraction limit. Up to now, in optical implementations of such schemes lower-order interference effects would always decrease the overall performance at higher particle numbers. They have thus been limited to two photons. We overcome this limitation and demonstrate a linear-optics-based four-photon interferometer. Observation of a four-particle mode-entangled state is confirmed by interference fringes with a periodicity of one quarter of the single-photon wavelength. This scheme can readily be extended to arbitrary photon numbers and thus represents an important step towards realizable applications with entanglement-enhanced performance.

id: quant-ph/0312198
title: Quantum Mechanics and Reality are Really Local
authors: Michael R. Clover
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312198
abstract: We attempt to pull together various lines of research whose ultimate conclusion points to the actual ``locality'' of Quantum Mechanics (QM). We note that just as John Bell discovered various errors in previous ``proofs'' of the completeness of QM, he made an error of his own in deriving the ``non-locality'' of QM. We show that QM satisfies the correct locality bound for non-commuting variables -- and is therefore local for 2 or more particles. We further show that the entangled wavefunctions that produce non-local de-Broglie-Bohm guidance equations are an artifact of First Quantization, and that the wavefunctions describing such experiments do factorize in Second Quantization (QED).

id: quant-ph/0312199
title: General framework for the probabilistic description of experiments
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures; Proceedings of Vaxjo Conference (June 2003)
journal: Ser. Math. Modeling 10, 365-385 (Vaxjo Univ. Press, 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312199
abstract: We introduce a new mathematical framework for the probabilistic description of an experiment on a system of any type in terms of information representing this system initially. Based on the notions of an information state and a generalized observable, this framework allows us to subsume different types of randomness and experiment effects within a single mathematical structure. Adjusting this framework to the quantum case, we clarify what is really "quantum" in quantum measurement theory.

id: quant-ph/0312200
title: Partial Wave Analysis of Scattering with Nonlocal Aharonov-Bohm Effect and Anomalous Cross Section induced by Quantum Interference
authors: De-Hone Lin
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312200
abstract: Partial wave theory of a three dmensional scattering problem for an arbitray short range potential and a nonlocal Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux is established. The scattering process of a ``hard shere'' like potential and the magnetic flux is examined. An anomalous total cross section is revealed at the specific quantized magnetic flux at low energy which helps explain the composite fermion and boson model in the fractional quantum Hall effect. Since the nonlocal quantum interference of magnetic flux on the charged particles is universal, the nonlocal effect is expected to appear in quite general potential system and will be useful in understanding some other phenomena in mesoscopic phyiscs.

id: quant-ph/0312201
title: Motion of a charged particle in the magnetic dipole field
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312201
abstract: This note discusses the motion of a charged particle in the magnetic dipole field and a modified Barut's lepton mass formula. It is shown that a charged particle in the magnetic dipole filed has no bound states, which means that Barut's lepton mass formula may have no physical basis.

id: quant-ph/0312202
title: Hierarchical Dobinski-type relations via substitution and the moment problem
authors: K. A. Penson, P. Blasiak, G. Duchamp, A. Horzela, A. I. Solomon
comments: 14 pages, 31 references
journal: J.Phys.A:Math.Gen.37 (2004)3475-3487
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312202
abstract: We consider the transformation properties of integer sequences arising from the normal ordering of exponentiated boson ([a,a*]=1) monomials of the form exp(x (a*)^r a), r=1,2,..., under the composition of their exponential generating functions (egf). They turn out to be of Sheffer-type. We demonstrate that two key properties of these sequences remain preserved under substitutional composition: (a)the property of being the solution of the Stieltjes moment problem; and (b) the representation of these sequences through infinite series (Dobinski-type relations). We present a number of examples of such composition satisfying properties (a) and (b). We obtain new Dobinski-type formulas and solve the associated moment problem for several hierarchically defined combinatorial families of sequences.

id: quant-ph/0312203
title: 1/N-expansion for the Dicke model and the decoherence program
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 7 pages, no figures. Added a reference and some minor corrections. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys. 313 (2004) 26-36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312203
abstract: An analysis of the Dicke model, N two-level atoms interacting with a single radiation mode, is done using the Holstein-Primakoff transformation. The main aim of the paper is to show that, changing the quantization axis with respect to the common usage, it is possible to prove a general result either for N or the coupling constant going to infinity for the exact solution of the model. This completes the analysis, known in the current literature, with respect to the same model in the limit of N and volume going to infinity, keeping the density constant. For the latter the proper axis of quantization is given by the Hamiltonian of the two-level atoms and for the former the proper axis of quantization is defined by the interaction. The relevance of this result relies on the observation that a general measurement apparatus acts using electromagnetic interaction and so, one can states that the thermodynamic limit is enough to grant the appearance of classical effects. Indeed, recent experimental results give first evidence that superposition states disappear interacting with an electromagnetic field having a large number of photons.

id: quant-ph/0312204
title: There is no generalization of known formulas for mutually unbiased bases
authors: Claude archer
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312204
abstract: In a quantum system having a finite number $N$ of orthogonal states, two orthonormal bases $\{a_i\}$ and $\{b_j\}$ are called mutually unbiased if all inner products $<a_i|b_j>$ have the same modulus $1/\sqrt{N}$. This concept appears in several quantum information problems. The number of pairwise mutually unbiased bases is at most $N+1$ and various constructions of $N+1$ such bases have been found when $N$ is a power of a prime number. We study families of formulas that generalize these constructions to arbitrary dimensions using finite rings.We then prove that there exists a set of $N+1$ mutually unbiased bases described by such formulas, if and only if $N$ is a power of a prime number.

id: quant-ph/0312205
title: DC field induced enhancement and inhibition of spontaneous emission in a cavity
authors: G. S. Agarwal, P. K. Pathak
comments: 3-pages, 2figure. accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 025802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312205
abstract: We demonstrate how spontaneous emission in a cavity can be controlled by the application of a dc field. The method is specially suitable for Rydberg atoms. We present a simple argument for the control of emission.

id: quant-ph/0312206
title: Difficulties with the Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: E. Comay
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures
journal: Apeiron, 11, No. 3, 1 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312206
abstract: Relying on the variational principle, it is proved that new contradictions emerge from an analysis of the Lagrangian density of the Klein-Gordon field: normalization problems arise and interaction with external electromagnetic fields cannot take place. By contrast, the Dirac equation is free of these problems. Other inconsistencies arise if the Klein-Gordon field is regarded as a classical field.

id: quant-ph/0312207
title: Gaussian Decoherence from Random Spin Environments
authors: W.H. Zurek, F.M. Cucchietti, J.P. Paz
comments: Many changes in the manuscript to improve readability, some typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312207
abstract: We examine an exactly solvable model of decoherence - a spin-system interacting with a collection of environment spins. We show that in this model (introduced some time ago to illustrate environment-induced superselection) generic assumptions about the coupling strengths lead to a universal (Gaussian) suppression of coherence between pointer states. We explore the regimes of validity of these results and discuss their relation to the spectral features of the environment and to the Loschmidt echo (or fidelity). Finally, we comment on the observation of such time dependence in spin echo experiments.

id: quant-ph/0312208
title: Quantum Lower Bounds for Fanout
authors: Maosen Fang, Stephen Fenner, Frederic Green, Steven Homer, Yong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312208
abstract: We prove several new lower bounds for constant depth quantum circuits. The main result is that parity (and hence fanout) requires log depth circuits, when the circuits are composed of single qubit and arbitrary size Toffoli gates, and when they use only constantly many ancill\ae. Under this constraint, this bound is close to optimal. In the case of a non-constant number $a$ of ancillae, we give a tradeoff between $a$ and the required depth, that results in a non-trivial lower bound for fanout when $a = n^{1-o(1)}$.

id: quant-ph/0312209
title: Bounds on the Power of Constant-Depth Quantum Circuits
authors: Stephen Fenner, Frederic Green, Steven Homer, Yong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312209
abstract: We show that if a language is recognized within certain error bounds by constant-depth quantum circuits over a finite family of gates, then it is computable in (classical) polynomial time. In particular, our results imply EQNC^0 is contained in P, where EQNC^0 is the constant-depth analog of the class EQP. On the other hand, we adapt and extend ideas of Terhal and DiVincenzo (quant-ph/0205133) to show that, for any family F of quantum gates including Hadamard and CNOT gates, computing the acceptance probabilities of depth-five circuits over F is just as hard as computing these probabilities for circuits over F. In particular, this implies that NQNC^0 = NQACC = NQP = coC=P where NQNC^0 is the constant-depth analog of the class NQP. This essentially refutes a conjecture of Green et al. that NQACC is contained in TC^0 (quant-ph/0106017).

id: quant-ph/0312210
title: Quantum Process Tomography on Vibrational States of Atoms in an Optical Lattice
authors: S. H. Myrskog, J. K. Fox, M. W. Mitchell, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312210
abstract: Quantum process tomography is used to fully characterize the evolution of the quantum vibrational state of atoms. Rubidium atoms are trapped in a shallow optical lattice supporting only two vibrational states, which we charcterize by reconstructing the 2x2 density matrix. Repeating this process for a complete set of inputs allows us to completely characterize both the system's intrinsic decoherence and resonant coupling.

id: quant-ph/0312211
title: Conditioned Unitary Transformation on biphotons
authors: G. Brida, M. Chekhova, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, L. Krivitsky, S. Kulik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 032332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312211
abstract: A conditioned unitary transformation ($90^o$ polarization rotation) is performed at single-photon level. The transformation is realized by rotating polarization for one of the photons of a polarization-entangled biphoton state (signal photon) by means of a Pockel's cell triggered by the detection of the other (idler) photon after polarization selection. As a result, polarization degree for the signal beam changes from zero to the value given by the idler detector quantum efficiency. This result is relevant to practical realization of various quantum information schemes and can be used for developing a new method of absolute quantum efficiency calibration.

id: quant-ph/0312212
title: Efficient extraction of quantum Hamiltonians from optimal laboratory data
authors: JM Geremia, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312212
abstract: Optimal Identification (OI) is a recently developed procedure for extracting optimal information about quantum Hamiltonians from experimental data using shaped control fields to drive the system in such a manner that dynamical measurements provide maximal information about its Hamiltonian. However, while optimal, OI is computationally expensive as initially presented. Here, we describe the unification of OI with highly efficient global, nonlinear map-facilitated data inversion procedures. This combination is expected to make OI techniques more suitable for laboratory implementation. A simulation of map-facilitated OI is performed demonstrating that the input-output maps can greatly accelerate the inversion process.

id: quant-ph/0312213
title: Quantum and Classical Tradeoffs
authors: Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312213
abstract: We propose an approach for quantifying a quantum circuit's quantumness as a means to understand the nature of quantum algorithmic speedups. Since quantum gates that do not preserve the computational basis are necessary for achieving quantum speedups, it appears natural to define the quantumness of a quantum circuit using the number of such gates. Intuitively, a reduction in the quantumness requires an increase in the amount of classical computation, hence giving a ``quantum and classical tradeoff''. In this paper we present two results on this direction. The first gives an asymptotic answer to the question: ``what is the minimum number of non-basis-preserving gates required to generate a good approximation to a given state''. This question is the quantum analogy of the following classical question, ``how many fair coins are needed to generate a given probability distribution'', which was studied and resolved by Knuth and Yao in 1976. Our second result shows that any quantum algorithm that solves Grover's Problem of size n using k queries and l levels of non-basis-preserving gates must have k*l=\Omega(n).

id: quant-ph/0312214
title: Existence of temperature on the nanoscale
authors: Michael Hartmann, Guenter Mahler, Ortwin Hess
comments: Version that appeared in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 080402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312214
abstract: We consider a regular chain of quantum particles with nearest neighbour interactions in a canonical state with temperature $T$. We analyse the conditions under which the state factors into a product of canonical density matrices with respect to groups of $n$ particles each and under which these groups have the same temperature $T$. In quantum mechanics the minimum group size $n_{min}$ depends on the temperature $T$, contrary to the classical case. We apply our analysis to a harmonic chain and find that $n_{min} = const.$ for temperatures above the Debye temperature and $n_{min} \propto T^{-3}$ below.

id: quant-ph/0312215
title: Generation of pure, ionic entangled states via linear optics
authors: Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042307 (2005) (6 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312215
abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel scheme to generate two-ion maximally entangled states from either pure product states or mixed states using linear optics. Our new scheme is mainly based on the ionic interference. Because the proposed scheme can generate pure maximally entangled states from mixed states, we denote it as purification-like generation scheme. The scheme does not need a Bell state analyzer as the existing entanglement generation schemes do, it also avoids the difficulty of synchronizing the arrival time of the two scattered photons faced by the existing schemes, thus the proposed new entanglement generation scheme can be implemented more easily in practice.

id: quant-ph/0312216
title: Bounds on classical information capacities for a class of quantum memory channels
authors: Garry Bowen, Igor Devetak, Stefano Mancini
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX, coding theorem removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 034310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312216
abstract: The maximum rates for information transmission through noisy quantum channels has primarily been developed for memoryless channels, where the noise on each transmitted state is treated as independent. Many real world communication channels experience noise which is modelled better by errors that are correlated between separate channel uses. In this paper, upper bounds on the classical information capacities of a class of quantum memory channels are derived. The class of channels consists of indecomposable quantum memory channels, a generalization of classical indecomposable finite-state channels.

id: quant-ph/0312217
title: Evolution speed in some coupled-spin models
authors: R. F. Sawyer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Correction of numerous mistakes. One model made simpler. A superior algorithm used to solve the second example
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 022308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312217
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of some models with N spins and pairwise couplings, for the case of large N, in order to compare evolution times with "speed limit" minima derived in the literature. Both in a (symmetric) case with couplings of the same strength between each pair and in a case of broken symmetry, the times necessary for evolution to a state in which the simplest initial state has evolved into a nearly orthogonal state are proportional to 1/N, as is the speed limit time. However the coefficient in the broken symmetry case comes much closer to the speed limit value. Introducing a different criterion for evolution speed, based on macroscopic changes in occupation, we find a corresponding enhancement in rates in the asymmetric case as compared to the symmetric case.

id: quant-ph/0312218
title: Efficient decomposition of quantum gates
authors: Juha J. Vartiainen, Mikko Mottonen, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 177902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312218
abstract: Optimal implementation of quantum gates is crucial for designing a quantum computer. We consider the matrix representation of an arbitrary multiqubit gate. By ordering the basis vectors using the Gray code, we construct the quantum circuit which is optimal in the sense of fully controlled single-qubit gates and yet is equivalent with the multiqubit gate. In the second step of the optimization, superfluous control bits are eliminated, which eventually results in a smaller total number of the elementary gates. In our scheme the number of controlled NOT gates is $O(4^n)$ which coincides with the theoretical lower bound.

id: quant-ph/0312219
title: Parametric Resonance in a Vibrating Cavity
authors: Pawel Wegrzyn
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A322 (2004) 263-269.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312219
abstract: We present the study of parametric resonance in a one-dimensional cavity based on the analysis of classical optical paths. The recursive formulas for field energy are given. We separate the mechanism of particle production and the resonance amplification of radiation. The production of photons is a purely quantum effect described in terms of quantum anomalies in recursive formulas. The resonance enhancement is a classical phenomenon of focusing and amplifying beams of photons due to D\"{o}ppler effect.

id: quant-ph/0312220
title: Quantum Energy in a Vibrating Cavity
authors: Pawel Wegrzyn
comments: 
journal: Modern Phys. Lett. A19 (2004) 769-774.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312220
abstract: We discuss the quantized field inside a general one-dimensional cavity system. We recognize the $SL(2,R)$ symmetry being the remainder of the conformal group. The explanation of the lack of the resonance production for the fundamental frequency is given and the asymptotic behavior of the cavity system is properly described.

id: quant-ph/0312221
title: Structure of sufficient quantum coarse-grainings
authors: Milan Mosonyi, Denes Petz
comments: 13 pages, LATEX
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 68(2004), 19-30.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312221
abstract: Let H and K be Hilbert spaces and T be a coarse-graining from B(H) to B(K). Assume that density matrices D_1 and D_2 acting on H are given. In the paper the consequences of the existence of a coarse-graining S from B(K) to B(H) satisfying ST(D_1)=D_1 and ST(D_2)=D_2 are given. (This condition means the sufficiency of T for D_1 and D_2.) Sufficiency implies a particular decomposition of the density matrices. This decomposition allows to deduce the exact condition for equality in the strong subadditivity of the von Neumann entropy.

id: quant-ph/0312222
title: Observation of sub-Doppler absorption in the /Lambda-type three-level Doppler-broadened cesium system
authors: Junmin Wang, Yanhua Wang, Shubin Yan, Tao Liu, Tiancai Zhang
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, to appear on Applied Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312222
abstract: Thanks to the atomic coherence in coupling laser driven atomic system, sub-Doppler absorption has been observed in Doppler-broadened cesium vapor cell via the /Lambda-type three-level scheme. The linewidth of the sub-Doppler absorption peak become narrower while the frequency detuning of coupling laser increases. The results are in agreement with the theoretical prediction by G. Vemuri et al.[PRA,Vol.53(1996) p.2842].

id: quant-ph/0312223
title: Faithful sharing of multipartite entanglement over noisy quantum channels
authors: Soojoon Lee, Sora Choi, Dong Pyo Chi
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312223
abstract: We present a protocol in which two or more parties can share multipartite entanglement over noisy quantum channels. The protocol is based on the entanglement purification presented by Shor and Preskill [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 441 (2000)] and the quantum teleportation via an isotropic state. We show that a nearly perfect purification implies a nearly perfect sharing of multipartite entanglement between two parties so that the protocol can assure a faithful sharing of multipartite entanglement with Shor and Preskill's proof on the entanglement purification.

id: quant-ph/0312224
title: The Casimir force between real mirrors at non zero temperature
authors: Serge Reynaud, Astrid Lambrecht, Cyriaque Genet
comments: Contribution to the QFEXT'03 Conference, 8 pages, Rinton style
journal: Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions, ed. K.A.Milton (Rinton Press, 2004) p.36
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312224
abstract: The Casimir force between dissipative metallic mirrors at non zero temperature has recently given rise to contradictory claims which have raised doubts about the theoretical expression of the force. In order to contribute to the resolution of this difficulty, we come back to the derivation of the force from basic principles of the quantum theory of lossy optical cavities. We obtain an expression which is valid for arbitrary mirrors, including dissipative ones, characterized by frequency dependent reflection amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0312225
title: The simplified Toffoli gate implementation by Margolus is optimal
authors: Guang Song, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 15 pages, 44 figures, submitted to Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312225
abstract: Unitary operations are expressed in the quantum circuit model as a finite sequence of elementary gates, such as controlled-not gates and single qubit gates. We prove that the simplified Toffoli gate by Margolus, which coincides with the Toffoli gate up to a single change of sign, cannot be realized with less than three controlled-not gates. If the circuit is implemented with three controlled-not gates, then at least four additional single qubit gates are necessary. This proves that the implementation suggested by Margolus is optimal.

id: quant-ph/0312226
title: A feasible gate for scalable linear optics quantum computation using polarization optics
authors: Kaoru Sanaka, Kevin Resch
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312226
abstract: Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn (KLM) proved that it is possible to build a scalable universal quantum computer using only linear-optics elements and conditional dynamics [Nature (London) {\bf 409}, 46 (2001)\cite{Knill}]. However, the practical realization of the quantum logic gate for the scheme is still technically difficult. A major difficulty is the requirement for sub-wavelength level stabilization of the interlocking interferometers. Following our recent experimental work[Phys. Rev. Lett.{\bf 92}, 017902 (2004)\cite{Sanaka2}], we describe a more feasible scheme to implement the gate that greatly reduces the experimental stability requirements. The scheme uses only polarizing beam splitters and half-wave plates.

id: quant-ph/0312227
title: The Reality in Bohmian Quantum Mechanics or Can You Kill with an Empty Wave Bullet?
authors: L. Vaidman
comments: 15 pages, contribution to the Jim Cushing Memorial Found. Phys. Issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312227
abstract: Several situations, in which an empty wave causes an observable effect, are reviewed. They include an experiment showing ``surrealistic trajectories'' proposed by Englert et al. and protective measurement of the density of the quantum state. Conditions for observable effects due to empty waves are derived. The possibility (in spite of the existence of these examples) of minimalistic interpretation of Bohmian Quantum Mechanics in which only Bohmian positions supervene on our experience is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0312228
title: Remarks on Clifford codes
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 10 pages; submitted to Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Proceedings 2004 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2004), Chicago, USA, pp. 354, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312228
abstract: Clifford codes are a class of quantum error control codes that form a natural generalization of stabilizer codes. These codes were introduced in 1996 by Knill, but only a single Clifford code was known, which is not already a stabilizer code. We derive a necessary and sufficient condition that allows to decide when a Clifford code is a stabilizer code, and compile a table of all true Clifford codes for error groups of small order.

id: quant-ph/0312229
title: Revivals of Coherence in Chaotic Atom-Optics Billiards
authors: M. F. Andersen, T. Gr¨¹nzweig, A. Kaplan, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312229
abstract: We investigate the coherence properties of thermal atoms confined in optical dipole traps where the underlying classical dynamics is chaotic. A perturbative expression derived for the coherence of the echo scheme of [Andersen et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 023001 (2003)] shows it is a function of the survival probability or fidelity of eigenstates of the motion of the atoms in the trap. The echo coherence and the survival probability display "system specific" features, even when the underlying classical dynamics is chaotic. In particular, partial revivals in the echo signal and the survival probability are found for a small shift of the potential. Next, a "semi-classical" expression for the averaged echo signal is presented and used to calculate the echo signal for atoms in a light sheet wedge billiard. Revivals in the echo coherence are found in this system, indicating they may be a generic feature of dipole traps.

id: quant-ph/0312230
title: A note on the classical lower bound for a quantum walk algorithm
authors: Stephen A. Fenner, Yong Zhang
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312230
abstract: A recent paper on quantum walks by Childs et al. [STOC'03] provides an example of a black-box problem for which there is a quantum algorithm with exponential speedup over the best classical randomized algorithm for the problem, but where the quantum algorithm does not involve any use of the quantum Fourier transform. They give an exponential lower bound for a classical randomized algorithm solving the black-box graph traversal problem defined in their paper. In this note we give an improved lower bound for this problem via a straightforward and more complete analysis.

id: quant-ph/0312231
title: Constraints on relaxation rates for N-level quantum systems
authors: Sonia G Schirmer, Allan I Solomon
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX, 4 figures (eps/pdf)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022107 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312231
abstract: We study the constraints imposed on the population and phase relaxation rates by the physical requirement of completely positive evolution for open N-level systems. The Lindblad operators that govern the evolution of the system are expressed in terms of observable relaxation rates, explicit formulas for the decoherence rates due to population relaxation are derived, and it is shown that there are additional, non-trivial constraints on the pure dephasing rates for N>2. Explicit experimentally testable inequality constraints for the decoherence rates are derived for three and four-level systems, and the implications of the results are discussed for generic ladder-, Lambda- and V-systems, and transitions between degenerate energy levels.

id: astro-ph/0312551
title: The three-body problem and the Hannay angle
authors: A. Spallicci, A. Morbidelli, G. Metris
comments: 11 pages. Accepted by Nonlinearity
journal: Nonlinearity 18 (2005) 45
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0312551
abstract: The Hannay angle has been previously studied for a celestial circular restricted three-body system by means of an adiabatic approach. In the present work, three main results are obtained. Firstly, a formal connection between perturbation theory and the Hamiltonian adiabatic approach shows that both lead to the Hannay angle; it is thus emphasised that this effect is already contained in classical celestial mechanics, although not yet defined nor evaluated separately. Secondly, a more general expression of the Hannay angle, valid for an action-dependent potential is given; such a generalised expression takes into account that the restricted three-body problem is a time-dependent, two degrees of freedom problem even when restricted to the circular motion of the test body. Consequently, (some of) the eccentricity terms cannot be neglected {\it a priori}. Thirdly, we present a new numerical estimate for the Earth adiabatically driven by Jupiter. We also point out errors in a previous derivation of the Hannay angle for the circular restricted three-body problem, with an action-independent potential.

id: cond-mat/0312011
title: Landau-Zener transition in a multilevel system. An exact result
authors: A.V.Shytov
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052708(2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312011
abstract: We study the S-matrix for the transitions at an avoided crossing of several energy levels, which is a multilevel generalization of the Landau-Zener problem. We demonstrate that, by extending the Schroedinger evolution to complex time, one can obtain an exact answer for some of the transition amplitudes. Similar to the Landau-Zener case, our result covers both the adiabatic regime (slow evolution.) and the diabatic regime (fast evolution). The form of the exact transition amplitude coincides with that obtained in a sequential pairwise level crossing approximation, in accord with the conjecture of Brundobler and Elser.

id: cond-mat/0312016
title: Quantum phase space picture of Bose-Einstein Condensates in a double well: Proposals for creating macroscopic quantum superposition states and a study of quantum chaos
authors: Khan W. Mahmud, Heidi Perry, William P. Reinhardt
comments: revised version, 13 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 023615 (2005)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312016
abstract: We present a quantum phase space model of Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a double well potential. In a two-mode Fock-state analysis we examine the eigenvectors and eigenvalues and find that the energy correlation diagram indicates a transition from a delocalized to a fragmented regime. Phase space information is extracted from the stationary quantum states using the Husimi distribution function. It is shown that the quantum states are localized on the known classical phase space orbits of a nonrigid physical pendulum, and thus the novel phase space characteristics of a nonrigid physical pendulum such as the $\pi$ motions are seen to be a property of the exact quantum states. Low lying states are harmonic oscillator like libration states while the higher lying states are Schr\"odinger cat-like superpositions of two pendulum rotor states. To study the dynamics in phase space, a comparison is made between a displaced quantum wavepacket and the trajectories of a swarm of points in classical phase space. For a driven double well, it is shown that the classical chaotic dynamics is manifest in the dynamics of the quantum states pictured using the Husimi distribution. Phase space analogy also suggests that a $\pi$ phase displaced wavepacket put on the unstable fixed point on a separatrix will bifurcate to create a superposition of two pendulum rotor states - a Schr\"odinger cat state (number entangled state) for BEC. It is shown that the choice of initial barrier height and ramping, following a $\pi$ phase imprinting on the condensate, can be used to generate controlled entangled number states with tunable extremity and sharpness.

id: cond-mat/0312019
title: A theoretical investigation of ferromagnetic tunnel junctions with 4-valued conductances
authors: Satoshi Kokado, Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 15 (2003) 8797-8804
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312019
abstract: In considering a novel function in ferromagnetic tunnel junctions consisting of ferromagnet(FM)/barrier/FM junctions, we theoretically investigate multiple valued (or multi-level) cell property, which is in principle realized by sensing conductances of four states recorded with magnetization configurations of two FMs; that is, (up,up), (up,down), (down,up), (down,down). To obtain such 4-valued conductances, we propose FM1/spin-polarized barrier/FM2 junctions, where the FM1 and FM2 are different ferromagnets, and the barrier has spin dependence. The proposed idea is applied to the case of the barrier having localized spins. Assuming that all the localized spins are pinned parallel to magnetization axes of the FM1 and FM2, 4-valued conductances are explicitly obtained for the case of many localized spins. Furthermore, objectives for an ideal spin-polarized barrier are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0312034
title: Generalized statistics: yet another generalization
authors: Petr Jizba, Toshihico Arimitsu
comments: Presented at Next2003, uses Elsevier LaTeX macros
journal: Physica A340 (2004) 110
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312034
abstract: We provide a unifying axiomatics for Renyi's entropy and non-extensive entropy of Tsallis. It is shown that the resulting entropy coincides with Csiszar's measure of directed divergence known from communication theory.

id: cond-mat/0312045
title: Full Counting Statistics of Spin Currents
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo, Yuli V. Nazarov
comments: twocolumns, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 046601 (2004).
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312045
abstract: We discuss how to detect fluctuating spin currents and derive full counting statistics of electron spin transfers. It is interesting to consider several detectors in series that simultaneously monitor different components of the spins transferred. We have found that in general the statistics of the measurement outcomes cannot be explained with the projection postulate and essentially depends on the quantum dynamics of the detectors.

id: cond-mat/0312101
title: Hartman effect in presence of Aharanov Bohm flux
authors: Swarnali Bandopadhyay, Raishma Krishnan, A. M. Jayannavar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Solid State Communications 131 (2004) 447-451
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312101
abstract: The Hartman effect for the tunneling particle implies the independence of group delay time on the opaque barrier width, with superluminal velocities as a consequence. This effect is further examined on a quantum ring geometry in the presence of Aharonov-Bohm flux. We show that while tunneling through an opaque barrier the group delay time for given incident energy becomes independent of the barrier thickness as well as the magnitude of the flux. The Hartman effect is thereby extended beyond one dimension and in the presence of Aharonov-Bohm flux.

id: cond-mat/0312130
title: Entanglement in a first order quantum phase transition
authors: J. Vidal, R. Mosseri, J. Dukelsky
comments: 4 pages, 3 EPS figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 054101 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312130
abstract: The phase diagram of spins 1/2 embedded in a magnetic field mutually interacting antiferromagnetically is determined. Contrary to the ferromagnetic case where a second order quantum phase transition occurs, a first order transition is obtained at zero field. The spectrum is computed for a large number of spins and allows one to study the ground state entanglement properties which displays a jump of its concurrence at the critical point.

id: cond-mat/0312145
title: Dynamics of entanglement in two coupled qubits
authors: Vivek M. Aji, Joel E. Moore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312145
abstract: Considerable progress has been made in understanding how dissipation drives the state of a single qubit from a quantum-mechanical superposition to a classical mixed state. This paper uses a Bloch-Redfield approach to study how, in a system of two qubits, dissipation drives the bipartite state of the two qubits from an entangled state to a product state. The measure used for mixed-state entanglement is Wootters's formula for the entanglement of formation. For qubits that start in an entangled state and are then decoupled, entanglement is found to decay faster in general than the decoherence of single qubit states by a factor $2/\log 2$ that can be obtained analytically in a limiting case. We show that the dynamics of entanglement for realistic parameters is different from that of fidelity: for some experimental parameters a bipartite state loses fidelity much more rapidly than it loses entanglement. These results are of some practical interest since entanglement is thought to be the essential ``fuel'' for fast quantum algorithms.

id: cond-mat/0312178
title: Adiabatic association of ultracold molecules via magnetic field tunable interactions
authors: Krzysztof Goral, Thorsten Koehler, Simon A. Gardiner, Eite Tiesinga, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 28 pages, 13 eps figures; final version
journal: J. Phys. B 37, 3457 (2004)
subjects: Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312178
abstract: We consider in detail the situation of applying a time dependent external magnetic field to a 87Rb atomic Bose-Einstein condensate held in a harmonic trap, in order to adiabatically sweep the interatomic interactions across a Feshbach resonance to produce diatomic molecules. To this end, we introduce a minimal two-body Hamiltonian depending on just five measurable parameters of a Feshbach resonance, which accurately determines all low energy binary scattering observables, in particular, the molecular conversion efficiency of just two atoms. Based on this description of the microscopic collision phenomena, we use the many-body theory of T. Koehler and K. Burnett [Phys. Rev. A 65, 033601 (2002)] to study the efficiency of the association of molecules in a 87Rb Bose-Einstein condensate during a linear passage of the magnetic field strength across the 100 mT Feshbach resonance. We explore different, experimentally accessible, parameter regimes, and compare the predictions of Landau-Zener, configuration interaction, and two level mean field calculations with those of the microscopic many-body approach. Our comparative studies reveal a remarkable insensitivity of the molecular conversion efficiency with respect to both the details of the microscopic binary collision physics and the coherent nature of the Bose-Einstein condensed gas, provided that the magnetic field strength is varied linearly. We provide the reasons for this universality of the molecular production achieved by linear ramps of the magnetic field strength, and identify the Landau-Zener coefficient determined by F.H. Mies et al. [Phys. Rev. A 61, 022721 (2000)] as the main parameter that controls the efficiency.

id: cond-mat/0312181
title: Quantumlike Diffusion over Discrete Sets
authors: Demian Battaglia, Mario Rasetti
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Physics Letters A 313 (2003) 8-15
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312181
abstract: In the present paper, a discrete differential calculus is introduced and used to describe dynamical systems over arbitrary graphs. The discretization of space and time allows the derivation of Heisenberg-like uncertainty inequalities and of a Schrodinger-like equation of motion, without need of any quantization procedure.

id: cond-mat/0312202
title: Correlations in noisy Landau-Zener transitions
authors: V.L. Pokrovsky, S. Scheidl
comments: 12 pages LaTex with 6 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312202
abstract: We analyze the influence of classical Gaussian noise on Landau-Zener transitions during a two-level crossing in a time-dependent regular external field. Transition probabilities and coherence factors become random due to the noise. We calculate their two-time correlation functions, which describe the response of this two-level system to a weak external pulse signal. The spectrum and intensity of the magnetic response are derived. Although fluctuations are of the same order of magnitude as averages, the results is obtained in an analytic form.

id: cond-mat/0312238
title: Modified Statistical Treatment of Kinetic Energy in the Thomas-Fermi Model
authors: Jeng-Da Chai, John D. Weeks
comments: 9 pages, 5 tables, and 6 figures. Accepted for J. Phys. Chem. B
journal: J. Phys. Chem. B 108, 6870 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312238
abstract: We try to improve the Thomas-Fermi model for the total energy and electron density of atoms and molecules by directly modifying the Euler equation for the electron density, which we argue is less affected by nonlocal corrections. Here we consider the simplest such modification by adding a linear gradient term to the Euler equation. For atoms, the coefficient of the gradient term can be chosen so that the correct exponential decay constant far from the nucleus is obtained. This model then gives a much improved description of the electron density at smaller distances, yielding in particular a finite density at the nucleus that is in good qualitative agreement with exact results. The cusp condition differs from the exact value by a factor of two. Values for the total energy of atomic systems, obtained by coupling parameter integration of the densities given by the Euler equation, are about as accurate as those given by very best Thomas-Fermi-Weizsacker models, and the density is much more accurate. Possible connections to orbital-free methods for the kinetic-energy functional in density functional theory are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0312272
title: Nanodot-Cavity Electrodynamics and Photon Entanglement
authors: Wang Yao, Renbao Liu, L. J. Sham
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 217402 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312272
abstract: Quantum electrodynamics of excitons in a cavity is shown to be relevant to quantum operations. We present a theory of an integrable solid-state quantum controlled-phase gate for generating entanglement of two photons using a coupled nanodot-microcavity-fiber structure. A conditional phase shift of $O(\pi/10)$ is calculated to be the consequence of the giant optical nonlinearity keyed by the excitons in the cavities. Structural design and active control, such as electromagnetic induced transparency and pulse shaping, optimize the quantum efficiency of the gate operation.

id: cond-mat/0312349
title: Robust two-qubit quantum registers
authors: I. A. Grigorenko, D. V. Khveshchenko
comments: Latex, 4 pages, 4 figures, colored figures, accepted for publishing in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 040506 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312349
abstract: We carry out a systematic analysis of a pair of coupled qubits, each of which is subject to its own dissipative environment, and argue that a combination of the inter-qubit couplings which provides for the lowest possible decoherence rates corresponds to the incidence of a double spectral degeneracy in the two-qubit system. We support this general argument by the results of of an evolutionary genetic algorithm which can also be used for optimizing time-dependent processes (gates) and their sequences that implement various quantum computing protocols.

id: cond-mat/0312442
title: Dynamical suppression of telegraph and 1/f noise due to quantum bistable fluctuator
authors: G. Falci, A. D'Arrigo, A. Mastellone, E. Paladino
comments: Revtex 4, 5 pages, 3 figures. Title revised and some other minor changed. Final version as published in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 70, R40101 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312442
abstract: We study dynamical decoupling of a qubit from non gaussian quantum noise due to discrete sources, as bistable fluctuators and 1/f noise. We obtain analytic and numerical results for generic operating point. For very large pulse frequency, where dynamic decoupling compensates decoherence, we found universal behavior. At intermediate frequencies noise can be compensated or enhanced, depending on the nature of the fluctuators and on the operating point. Our technique can be applied to a larger class of non-gaussian environments.

id: cond-mat/0312550
title: Decoherence in Josephson qubits
authors: G. Falci, E. Paladino, R. Fazio
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures, Proc. of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CLI, Varenna (Italy) July 2002. To be published in "Quantum Phenomena of Mesoscopic Systems", B. Altshuler and V. Tognetti Eds, IOS Press Amsterdam
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0312550
abstract: A high degree of quantum coherence is a crucial requirement for the implementation of quantum logic devices. Solid state nanodevices seem particularly promising from the point of view of integrability and flexibility in the design. However decoherence is a serious limitation, due to the presence of many types low energy excitations in the ``internal'' environment and of ``external'' sources due to the control circuitery. Here we study both kind of dephasing in a special implementation, the charge Josephson qubit, however many of our results are applicable to a large class of solid state qubits. This is the case of 1/f noise for which we introduce and study a model of an environment of bistable fluctuatiors. External sources of noise are analized in terms of a suitable harmonic oscillator environment and the explicit mapping on the spin boson model is presented. We perform a detailed investigation of various computation procedures (single shot measurements, repeated measurements) and discuss the problem of the information needed to characterize the effect of the environment. For a fluctuator environment with 1/f spectrum memory effects turn out to be important. Although in general information beyond the power spectrum is needed, in many situations this results in the knowledge of only one more microscopic parameter of the environment. This allows to determine which degrees of freedom of the environment are effective sources of decoherence in each different physical situation considered.

id: gr-qc/0312011
title: Sagnac interferometry and non-Newtonian gravity
authors: Abel Camacho, Abel Camacho-Galvan
comments: Accepted in General relativity and Gravitation
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 36 (2004) 1207-1211
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0312011
abstract: Sagnac interferometry has been employed in the context of gravity as a proposal for the detection of the so called gravitomagnetic effect. In the present work we explore the possibilities that this experimental device could open up in the realm of non--Newtonian gravity. It will be shown that this experimental approach allows us to explore an interval of values of the range of the new force that up to now remains unexplored, namely, $\lambda\geq 10^{14}$ m.

id: gr-qc/0312062
title: Quantum features in statistical observations of "timeless" classical systems
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 7 pages. Invited talk at Int. Workshop Trends and Perspectives on Extensive and Non-Extensive Statistical Mechanics, Angra dos Reis (Brazil), Nov. 2003. To appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A344:478-483,2004
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0312062
abstract: We pursue the view that quantum theory may be an emergent structure related to large space-time scales. In particular, we consider classical Hamiltonian systems in which the intrinsic proper time evolution parameter is related through a probability distribution to the discrete physical time. This is motivated by studies of ``timeless'' reparametrization invariant models, where discrete physical time has recently been constructed based on coarse-graining local observables. Describing such deterministic classical systems with the help of path-integrals, primordial states can naturally be introduced which follow unitary quantum mechanical evolution in suitable limits.

id: gr-qc/0312063
title: Time in quantum gravity by weakening the Hamiltonian constraint
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0312063
abstract: We replace the usual Hamiltonian constraint of quantum gravity H|psi>=0 by a weaker one <psi|H|psi>=0. This allows |psi> to satisfy the time-dependent functional Schrodinger equation. In general, only the phase of the wave function appears to be time independent. The resulting quantum theory has the correct classical limit and thus provides a viable theory of quantum gravity that solves the problem of time without introducing additional nongravitational degrees of freedom.

id: gr-qc/0312080
title: Semiclassical Instability of the Cauchy Horizon in Self-Similar Collapse
authors: Umpei Miyamoto, Tomohiro Harada
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, minor errors corrected and some sentences added in the introduction, accepted for publication in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev. D69 (2004) 104005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0312080
abstract: Generic spherically symmetric self-similar collapse results in strong naked-singularity formation. In this paper we are concerned with particle creation during a naked-singularity formation in spherically symmetric self-similar collapse without specifying the collapsing matter. In the generic case, the power of particle emission is found to be proportional to the inverse square of the remaining time to the Cauchy horizon (CH). The constant of proportion can be arbitrarily large in the limit to marginally naked singularity. Therefore, the unbounded power is especially striking in the case that an event horizon is very close to the CH because the emitted energy can be arbitrarily large in spite of a cutoff expected from quantum gravity. Above results suggest the instability of the CH in spherically symmetric self-similar spacetime from quantum field theory and seem to support the existence of a semiclassical cosmic censor. The divergence of redshifts and blueshifts of emitted particles is found to cause the divergence of power to positive or negative infinity, depending on the coupling manner of scalar fields to gravity. On the other hand, it is found that there is a special class of self-similar spacetimes in which the semiclassical instability of the CH is not efficient. The analyses in this paper are based on the geometric optics approximation, which is justified in two dimensions but needs justification in four dimensions.

id: hep-ph/0312368
title: Entanglement in condensates involving strong interactions
authors: David E. Miller, Abdel-Nasser M. Tawfik
comments: 17 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Appl. Math. Inf. Sci. 5:239-252,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0312368
abstract: We look at two well known examples of interacting systems relating to condensed matter in which we put the strong interacting parameters. At high quark chemical potentials and low temperatures we study the entropy arising from the excitation in the BCS model of superconductivity and the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of colored quark pairs. We compare it with the ground state entropy for a system consisting of two colored quarks. In the BCS model we found that the entropy strongly depends on the energy gap. Both for the very small values of the momenta as well as those much greater than the characterizing Fermi momentum $p_f$, the ground state entropy is dominant. For the BEC case we suggest a phenomenological model to build up colored bosonic quark pairs. Here the entropy entirely depends upon the short ranged repulsive interactions between the quark pairs and vanishes for large momenta.

id: hep-ph/0312390
title: Multi-particle correlations in qp-Bose gas model
authors: L.V. Adamska, A.M. Gavrilik
comments: 10 pages, latex; v2: minor corrections; v3: minor improvement mainly to match referee's remark
journal: J.Phys.A37:4787-4796,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0312390
abstract: The approach based on multimode system of q-deformed oscillators and the related picture of ideal gas of q-bosons enables to effectively describe the observed non-Bose type behaviour, in experiments on heavy-ion collisions, of the intercept (or the "strength") $\lambda$ of the two-particle correlation function of identical pions or kaons. In this paper we extend main results of that approach in the two aspects: first, we derive in explicit form the intercepts of n-particle correlation functions in the case of q-Bose gas model and, second, provide their explicit two-parameter (or qp-) generalization.

id: hep-th/0312018
title: Conceptual unification of elementary particles, black holes, quantum de Sitter and Anti de Sitter string states
authors: Norma G. Sanchez
comments: New original material; one minor misprint in eq.(1.3) corrected
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A19:4173-4200,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0312018
abstract: We provide a conceptual unified description of the quantum properties of black holes (BH), elementary particles, de Sitter (dS) and Anti de Sitter (AdS) string states.The conducting line of argument is the classical-quantum (de Broglie, Compton) duality here extended to the quantum gravity (string) regime (wave-particle-string duality). The semiclassical (QFT) and quantum (string) gravity regimes are respectively characterized and related: sizes, masses, accelerations and temperatures. The Hawking temperature, elementary particle and string temperatures are shown to be the same concept in different energy regimes and turn out the precise classical-quantum duals of each other; similarly, this result holds for the BH decay rate, heavy particle and string decay rates; BH evaporation ends as quantum string decay into pure (non mixed) radiation. Microscopic density of states and entropies in the two (semiclassical and quantum) gravity regimes are derived and related, an unifying formula for BH, dS and AdS states is provided in the two regimes. A string phase transition towards the dS string temperature (which is shown to be the precise quantum dual of the semiclassical (Hawking-Gibbons) dS temperature) is found and characterized; such phase transition does not occurs in AdS alone. High string masses (temperatures) show a further (square root temperature behaviour) sector in AdS. From the string mass spectrum and string density of states in curved backgrounds, quantum properties of the backgrounds themselves are extracted and the quantum mass spectrum of BH, dS and AdS radii obtained.

id: hep-th/0312092
title: Wightman function and Casimir densities on AdS bulk with application to the Randall-Sundrum braneworld
authors: Aram A. Saharian
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures, discussions and figure labels added, accepted for publication in Nuclear Physics B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B712 (2005) 196-228
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0312092
abstract: Positive frequency Wightman function and vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor are computed for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter subject to Robin boundary conditions on two parallel plates located on $D+1$ - dimensional AdS background. The general case of different Robin coefficients on separate plates is considered. The mode summation method is used with a combination of a variant of the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the series over zeros of combinations of cylinder functions. This allows us to extract manifestly the parts due to the AdS spacetime without boundaries and boundary induced parts. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum densities near the plates and at large distances is investigated. The vacuum forces acting on the boundaries are presented as a sum of the self-action and interaction forces. The first one contains well-known surface divergences and needs further regularization. The interaction forces between the plates are attractive for Dirichlet scalar. We show that threre is a region in the space of parameters defining the boundary conditions in which the interaction forces are repulsive for small distances and attractive for large distances. An application to the Randall-Sundrum braneworld with arbitrary mass terms on the branes is discussed.

id: hep-th/0312130
title: Quasi-exact solvability of Dirac-Pauli equation and generalized Dirac oscillators
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Pinaki Roy
comments: LaTex, 21 pages, no figures
journal: Annals Phys. 312 (2004) 161-176
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0312130
abstract: We demonstrate that neutral Dirac particles in external electric fields, which are equivalent to generalized Dirac oscillators, are physical examples of quasi-exactly solvable systems. Electric field configurations permitting quasi-exact solvability of the system based on the $sl(2)$ symmetry are discussed separately in spherical, cylindrical, and Cartesian coordinates. Some exactly solvable field configurations are also exhibited.

id: hep-th/0312132
title: Analytical Bounce Solution in a Dissipative Quantum Tunneling
authors: D. K. Park
comments: 9pages, 4 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 2495-2503
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0312132
abstract: The analytical bounce solution is derived in terms of the polygamma function in the Caldeira-Leggett's dissipative quantum tunneling model. The classical action for the bounce solution lies between the upper and lower bounds in the full range of $\alpha$, where $\alpha$ is a dissipation coefficient. The bounce peak point increases from 1 to 4/3 with increase of $\alpha$. In spite of various nice features we have shown that the solution we have derived is not exact one by making use of the zero mode argument in the linearized fluctuation equation. However, our solution can be a starting point for approximate computation of the prefactor in this model.

id: hep-th/0312323
title: Quantum Mechanics Model on K?hler conifold
authors: Stefano Bellucci, Armen Nersessian, Armen Yeranyan
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX format, some misprints heve been corrected
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 045006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0312323
abstract: We propose an exactly-solvable model of the quantum oscillator on the class of K\"ahler spaces (with conic singularities), connected with two-dimensional complex projective spaces. Its energy spectrum is nondegenerate in the orbital quantum number, when the space has non-constant curvature. We reduce the model to a three-dimensional system interacting with the Dirac monopole. Owing to noncommutativity of the reduction and quantization procedures, the Hamiltonian of the reduced system gets non-trivial quantum corrections. We transform the reduced system into a MIC-Kepler-like one and find that quantum corrections arise only in its energy and coupling constant. We present the exact spectrum of the generalized MIC-Kepler system. The one-(complex) dimensional analog of the suggested model is formulated on the Riemann surface over the complex projective plane and could be interpreted as a system with fractional spin.

id: math-ph/0312003
title: Relativistic Brownian Motion in 3+1 Dimensions
authors: O. Oron, L.P. Horwitz
comments: 19 pages Latex, one figure ps
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312003
abstract: We solve the problem of formulating Brownian motion in a relativistically covariant framework in 3+1 dimensions. We obtain covariant Fokker-Planck equations with (for the isotropic case) a differential operator of d'Alembert form. Treating the spacelike and timelike fluctuations separately in order to maintain the covariance property, we show that it is essential to take into account the analytic continuation of "unphysical" fluctuations. We discuss the notion of locality in this framework and possible implications for entangled states.

id: math-ph/0312013
title: Exponential splitting of bound states in a waveguide with a pair of distant windows
authors: D. Borisov, P. Exner
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A. 2004. V. 37. No. 10. P. 3411-3428.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312013
abstract: We consider Laplacian in a straight planar strip with Dirichlet boundary which has two Neumann ``windows'' of the same length the centers of which are $2l$ apart, and study the asymptotic behaviour of the discrete spectrum as $l\to\infty$. It is shown that there are pairs of eigenvalues around each isolated eigenvalue of a single-window strip and their distances vanish exponentially in the limit $l\to\infty$. We derive an asymptotic expansion also in the case where a single window gives rise to a threshold resonance which the presence of the other window turns into a single isolated eigenvalue.

id: math-ph/0312019
title: Fractional supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics as a set of replicas of ordinary supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. Daoud, M. Kibler
comments: Paper accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 321 (2004) 147-151
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312019
abstract: A connection between fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics and ordinary supersymmetric quantum mechanics is established in this Letter.

id: math-ph/0312024
title: From exact-WKB towards singular quantum perturbation theory
authors: Andr¨¦ Voros
comments: latex text.tex, 3 files, 2 figures, 14 pages this http URL [SPhT-T03/192], submitted to Publ. RIMS, Kyoto Univ. (special 40th anniversary issue)
journal: Publ. RIMS, Kyoto Univ. 40 (2004) 973-990.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312024
abstract: We use exact WKB analysis to derive some concrete formulae in singular quantum perturbation theory, for Schr\"odinger eigenvalue problems on the real line with polynomial potentials of the form $(q^M + g q^N)$, where $N>M>0$ even, and $g>0$. Mainly, we establish the $g \to 0$ limiting forms of global spectral functions such as the zeta-regularized determinants and some spectral zeta functions.

id: math-ph/0312028
title: Convergence of spectra of graph-like thin manifolds
authors: Pavel Exner, Olaf Post
comments: 38 pages, 6 figures (small changes, Sec 9 extended)
journal: J. Geom. Phys. 54 (2005), 77-115
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312028
abstract: We consider a family of compact manifolds which shrinks with respect to an appropriate parameter to a graph. The main result is that the spectrum of the Laplace-Beltrami operator converges to the spectrum of the (differential) Laplacian on the graph with Kirchhoff boundary conditions at the vertices. On the other hand, if the the shrinking at the vertex parts of the manifold is sufficiently slower comparing to that of the edge parts, the limiting spectrum corresponds to decoupled edges with Dirichlet boundary conditions at the endpoints. At the borderline between the two regimes we have a third possibility when the limiting spectrum can be described by a nontrivial coupling at the vertices.

id: math-ph/0312029
title: More on a SUSYQM approach to the harmonic oscillator with nonzero minimal uncertainties in position and/or momentum
authors: C. Quesne, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 26 pages, no figure, new section 2.4 + small changes, accepted in J. Phys. A, Special issue on Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
journal: J.Phys.A37:10095-10114,2004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312029
abstract: We continue our previous application of supersymmetric quantum mechanical methods to eigenvalue problems in the context of some deformed canonical commutation relations leading to nonzero minimal uncertainties in position and/or momentum. Here we determine for the first time the spectrum and the eigenvectors of a one-dimensional harmonic oscillator in the presence of a uniform electric field in terms of the deforming parameters $\alpha$, $\beta$. We establish that whenever there is a nonzero minimal uncertainty in momentum, i.e., for $\alpha \ne 0$, the correction to the harmonic oscillator eigenvalues due to the electric field is level dependent. In the opposite case, i.e., for $\alpha = 0$, we recover the conventional quantum mechanical picture of an overall energy-spectrum shift even when there is a nonzero minimum uncertainty in position, i.e., for $\beta \ne 0$. Then we consider the problem of a $D$-dimensional harmonic oscillator in the case of isotropic nonzero minimal uncertainties in the position coordinates, depending on two parameters $\beta$, $\beta'$. We extend our methods to deal with the corresponding radial equation in the momentum representation and rederive in a simple way both the spectrum and the momentum radial wave functions previously found by solving the differential equation. This opens the way to solving new $D$-dimensional problems.

id: math-ph/0312034
title: Semiclassical analysis of constrained quantum systems
authors: G. F. Dell'Antonio, L. Tenuta
comments: 23 pages, a new section on submanifolds of arbitrary dimension and codimension added, references modified and added
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, volume 37, 5605-5624 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312034
abstract: We study the dynamics of a quantum particle in R^(n+m) constrained by a strong potential force to stay within a distance of order hbar (in suitable units) from a smooth n-dimensional submanifold M. We prove that in the semiclassical limit the evolution of the wave function is approximated in norm, up to terms of order hbar^(1/2), by the evolution of a semiclassical wave packet centred on the trajectory of the corresponding classical constrained system.

id: math-ph/0312039
title: The Two Dimensional Hannay-Berry Model
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312039
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to construct the Hannay-Berry model of quantum mechanics, on a two dimensional symplectic torus. We construct a simultaneous quantization of the algebra of functions and the linear symplectic group $\G =$ SL$_2 (\Z)$. We obtain the quantization via an action of $\G$ on the set of equivalence classes of irreducible representations of Rieffel`s quantum torus $\Ad$. For $\h \in \Q$ this action has a unique fixed point. This gives a canonical projective equivariant quantization. There exists a Hilbert space on which both $\G$ and $\Ad$ act equivariantly. Combined with the fact that every projective representation of $\G$ can be lifted to a linear representation, we also obtain linear equivariant quantization.

id: math-ph/0312045
title: Gaussian quantum fluctuations in interacting many particle systems
authors: M. Hartmann, G. Mahler, O. Hess
comments: 10 pages, formulation made mathematically more precise, two examples added, accepted for publication in Letters in Mathematical Physics
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 68, 103-112 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312045
abstract: We consider a many particle quantum system, in which each particle interacts only with its nearest neighbours. Provided that the energy per particle has an upper bound, we show, that the energy distribution of almost every product state becomes a Gaussian normal distribution in the limit of infinite number of particles. We indicate some possible applications.

id: math-ph/0312046
title: Quantum inequalities in quantum mechanics
authors: Simon P. Eveson, Christopher J. Fewster, Rainer Verch
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312046
abstract: We study a phenomenon occuring in various areas of quantum physics, in which an observable density (such as an energy density) which is classically pointwise nonnegative may assume arbitrarily negative expectation values after quantisation, even though the spatially integrated density remains nonnegative. Two prominent examples which have previously been studied are the energy density (in quantum field theory) and the probability flux of rightwards-moving particles (in quantum mechanics). However, in the quantum field context, it has been shown that the magnitude and space-time extension of negative energy densities are not arbitrary, but restricted by relations which have come to be known as `quantum inequalities'. In the present work, we explore the extent to which such quantum inequalities hold for typical quantum mechanical systems. We derive quantum inequalities of two types. The first are `kinematical' quantum inequalities where spatially averaged densities are shown to be bounded below. Such quantum inequalities are directly related to Garding inequalities. The second type are `dynamical' quantum inequalities where one obtains bounds from below on temporally averaged densities. We derive such quantum inequalities in the case of the energy density in general quantum mechanical systems having suitable decay properties on the negative spectral axis of the total energy. Furthermore, we obtain explicit numerical values for the quantum inequalities on the one-dimensional current density, using various spatial averaging weight functions. We also improve the numerical value of the related `backflow constant' previously investigated by Bracken and Melloy. In many cases our numerical results are controlled by rigorous error estimates.

id: math-ph/0312055
title: Schroedinger operators with singular interactions: a model of tunneling resonances
authors: Pavel Exner, Sylwia Kondej
comments: LaTeX2e, 34 pages
journal: J. Phys. A37 (2004), 8255-8277
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312055
abstract: We discuss a generalized Schr\"odinger operator in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^d), d=2,3$, with an attractive singular interaction supported by a $(d-1)$-dimensional hyperplane and a finite family of points. It can be regarded as a model of a leaky quantum wire and a family of quantum dots if $d=2$, or surface waves in presence of a finite number of impurities if $d=3$. We analyze the discrete spectrum, and furthermore, we show that the resonance problem in this setting can be explicitly solved; by Birman-Schwinger method it is cast into a form similar to the Friedrichs model.

id: math-ph/0312074
title: Generalized Landen Transformation Formulas for Jacobi Elliptic Functions
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 26 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0312074
abstract: Landen transformation formulas, which connect Jacobi elliptic functions with different modulus parameters, were first obtained over two hundred years ago by changing integration variables in elliptic integrals.We rediscover known results as well as obtain more generalized Landen formulas from a very different perspective, by making use of the recently obtained periodic solutions of physically interesting nonlinear differential equations and numerous remarkable new cyclic identities involving Jacobi elliptic functions. We find that several of our Landen transformations have a rather different and substantially more elegant appearance compared to the forms usually found in the literature. Further, by making use of the cyclic identities discovered recently, we also obtain some entirely new sets of Landen transformations. This paper is an expanded and revised version of our previous paper math-ph/0204054.

id: math/0312294
title: Global Existence of Bell's Time-Inhomogeneous Jump Process for Lattice Quantum Field Theory
authors: Hans-Otto Georgii, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 16 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2: references added, minor extension of the introduction
journal: Markov Processes and Related Fields 11, 1-18 (2005)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0312294
abstract: We consider the time-inhomogeneous Markovian jump process introduced by John S. Bell [Phys.Rep. 137, 49] for a lattice quantum field theory, which runs on the associated configuration space. Its jump rates, tailored to give the process the quantum distribution $|\Psi_t|^2$ at all times $t$, typically exhibit singularities. We establish the existence of a unique such process for all times, under suitable assumptions on the Hamiltonian or the initial state vector $\Psi_0$. The proof of non-explosion takes advantage of the special role of the $|\Psi_t|^2$ distribution.

id: math/0312326
title: Some Jump Processes in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Roderich Tumulka, Hans-Otto Georgii
comments: 18 pages LaTeX, no figures; written for the proceedings of the DFG Priority Program "Interacting Stochastic Systems of High Complexity"; v2 major revisions
journal: P. 55-73 in J.-D. Deuschel, A. Greven (editors): Interacting Stochastic Systems. Berlin: Springer-Verlag (2005)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0312326
abstract: A jump process for the positions of interacting quantum particles on a lattice, with time-dependent transition rates governed by the state vector, was first considered by J.S. Bell. We review this process and its continuum variants involving ``minimal'' jump rates, describing particles as they get created, move, and get annihilated. In particular, we sketch a recent proof of global existence of Bell's process. As an outlook, we suggest how methods of this proof could be applied to similar global existence questions, and underline the particular usefulness of minimal jump rates on manifolds with boundaries.

id: math/0312494
title: Quantum symmetric functions
authors: Rafael Diaz, Eddy Pariguan
comments: Final version. To appear in Communications in Algebra
journal: Communications in Algebra, Volume 33, Number 6 (2005), 1947-1978
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0312494
abstract: We study quantum deformations of Poisson orbivarieties. Given a Poisson manifold $(\mathbb{R}^{m},\alpha)$ we consider the Poisson orbivariety $(\mathbb{R}^{m})^{n}/S_{n}$. The Kontsevich star product on functions on $(\mathbb{R}^{m})^{n}$ induces a star product on functions on $(\mathbb{R}^{m})^{n}/S_{n}$. We provide explicit formulae for the case ${{\mathfrak h} \times {\mathfrak h}}/\mathcal{W}$, where ${\mathfrak h}$ is the Cartan subalgebra of a classical Lie algebra ${\mathfrak g}$ and $\mathcal{W}$ is the Weyl group of ${\mathfrak h}$. We approach our problem from a fairly general point of view, introducing Polya functors for categories over non-symmetric Hopf operads.

id: nlin/0312021
title: On Quantum Iterated Function Systems
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: Latex, 12 pages, 3 figures. Added plot of numerical estimate of the averaged contraction parameter fro quantum octahedron over the whole range of the fuzziness parameter. Added a theorem and proof of the uniqueness of the invariant measure. At the very end added subsection on "open problems"
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, vol. 2, no 3 (2004) pp. 492-503
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312021
abstract: Quantum Iterated Function System on a complex projective space is defined by a family of linear operators on a complex Hilbert space. The operators define both the maps and their probabilities by one algebraic formula. Examples with conformal maps (relativistic boosts) on the Bloch sphere are discussed.

id: nlin/0312031
title: Regular quantum graphs
authors: Simone Severini, Gregor Tanner
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2004 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 6675-6686
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312031
abstract: We introduce the concept of regular quantum graphs and construct connected quantum graphs with discrete symmetries. The method is based on a decomposition of the quantum propagator in terms of permutation matrices which control the way incoming and outgoing channels at vertex scattering processes are connected. Symmetry properties of the quantum graph as well as its spectral statistics depend on the particular choice of permutation matrices, also called connectivity matrices, and can now be easily controlled. The method may find applications in the study of quantum random walks networks and may also prove to be useful in analysing universality in spectral statistics.

id: nlin/0312044
title: Fractional Generalization of Liouville Equations
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: Chaos 14 (2004) 123-127
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312044
abstract: In this paper fractional generalization of Liouville equation is considered. We derive fractional analog of normalization condition for distribution function. Fractional generalization of the Liouvile equation for dissipative and Hamiltonian systems was derived from the fractional normalization condition. This condition is considered considered as a normalization condition for systems in fractional phase space. The interpretation of the fractional space is discussed.

id: nlin/0312046
title: Piecewise Deterministic Quantum Dynamics and Quantum Fractals on the Poincare Disk
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: Added Concluding Remarks, improved figure captions, updated references. 16 pages, 3 figures, Latex
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. vol 54 no 1 , August 2004, pp 81-92
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312046
abstract: It is shown that piecewise deterministic dissipative quantum dynamics in a vector space with indefinite metric can lead to well defined, positive probabilities. The case of quantum jumps on the Poincar'e disk is studied in details, including results of numerical simulations of quantum fractals. Keywords: iterated function systems, dynamical semigroups, EEQT, indefinite metric, quantum jumps, quantum measurement, non-commuting observables, fractals, Poincare disk

id: nlin/0312062
title: Spectral properties and classical decays in quantum open systems
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. submitted to PRE. Typos corrected. Refferences added. Fig 5 corrected. Some changes following refferees' sugestions made
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312062
abstract: We study the relationship between the spectral properties of diffusive open quantum maps and the classical spectrum of Ruelle-Pollicott resonances. The leading resonances determine the asymptotic time regime for several quantities of interest - the linear entropy, the Loschmidt echo and the correlations of the initial state. A numerical method that allow an efficient calculation of the leading spectrum is developed using a truncated basis adapted to the dynamics.

id: nucl-th/0312018
title: Supersymmetric Patterns in the Pseudospin Spin and Coulomb Limits of the Dirac Equation with Scalar and Vector Potentials
authors: A. Leviatan
comments: Minor adjustments to PRL requirements, Phys. Rev. Lett. in press
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92 (2004) 202501; Erratum-ibid. 92 (2004) 219902
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0312018
abstract: We show that the Dirac equation in 3+1 dimensions gives rise to supersymmetric patterns when the scalar and vector potentials are (i) Coulombic with arbitrary strengths or (ii) when their sum or difference is a constant, leading to relativistic pseudospin and spin symmetries. The conserved quantities and the common intertwining relation responsible for such patterns are discussed.

