id: quant-ph/0312062
title: Scattering theory and discrete-time quantum walks
authors: Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: 7 pages, Latex, replaced with published version
journal: Physics Letters A 324, 277 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312062
abstract: We study quantum walks on general graphs from the point of view of scattering theory. For a general finite graph we choose two vertices and attach one half line to each. We are interested in walks that proceed from one half line, through the graph, to the other. The particle propagates freely on the half lines but is scattered at each vertex in the original graph. The probability of starting on one line and reaching the other after n steps can be expressed in terms of the transmission amplitude for the graph. An example is presented.

id: quant-ph/0312133
title: Propagating Quantum Walks: the origin of interference structures
authors: P.L.Knight, E.Roldan, J.E. Sipe
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51 (2004) 1761-1777
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312133
abstract: We analyze the solution of the coined quantum walk on a line. First, we derive the full solution, for arbitrary unitary transformations, by using a new approach based on the four "walk fields" which we show determine the dynamics. The particular way of deriving the solution allows a rigorous derivation of a long wavelength approximation. This long wavelength approximation is useful as it provides an approximate analytical expression that captures the basics of the quantum walk and allows us to gain insight into the physics of the process.

id: quant-ph/0312139
title: Electron spin detection in the frequency domain under the interrupted Oscillating Cantilever-driven Adiabatic Reversal (iOSCAR) Protocol
authors: M. Ting, A. O. Hero, D. Rugar, C. Y. Yip, J. A. Fessler
comments: 11 pages, Version 2: Removed extraneous author information, Version 3: Corrected references, Version 4: Re-arranged references and some cosmetic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312139
abstract: Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (MRFM) is an emergent technology for measuring spin-induced attonewton forces using a micromachined cantilever. In the interrupted Oscillating Cantilever-driven Adiabatic Reversal (iOSCAR) method, small ensembles of electron spins are manipulated by an external radio frequency (RF) magnetic field to produce small periodic deviations in the resonant frequency of the cantilever. These deviations can be detected by frequency demodulation, followed by conventional amplitude or energy detection. In this paper, we develop optimal detectors for several signal models that have been hypothesized for measurements induced by iOSCAR spin manipulation. We show that two simple variants of the energy detector--the filtered energy detector and a hybrid filtered energy/amplitude/energy detector--are approximately asymptotically optimal for the Discrete-Time (D-T) random telegraph signal model assuming White Gaussian Noise (WGN). For the D-T random walk signal model, the filtered energy detector performs close to the optimal Likelihood Ratio Test (LRT) when the transition probabilities are symmetric.

id: quant-ph/0312230
title: A note on the classical lower bound for a quantum walk algorithm
authors: Stephen A. Fenner, Yong Zhang
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0312230
abstract: A recent paper on quantum walks by Childs et al. [STOC'03] provides an example of a black-box problem for which there is a quantum algorithm with exponential speedup over the best classical randomized algorithm for the problem, but where the quantum algorithm does not involve any use of the quantum Fourier transform. They give an exponential lower bound for a classical randomized algorithm solving the black-box graph traversal problem defined in their paper. In this note we give an improved lower bound for this problem via a straightforward and more complete analysis.

id: nlin/0312031
title: Regular quantum graphs
authors: Simone Severini, Gregor Tanner
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2004 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 6675-6686
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0312031
abstract: We introduce the concept of regular quantum graphs and construct connected quantum graphs with discrete symmetries. The method is based on a decomposition of the quantum propagator in terms of permutation matrices which control the way incoming and outgoing channels at vertex scattering processes are connected. Symmetry properties of the quantum graph as well as its spectral statistics depend on the particular choice of permutation matrices, also called connectivity matrices, and can now be easily controlled. The method may find applications in the study of quantum random walks networks and may also prove to be useful in analysing universality in spectral statistics.

