id: quant-ph/0401001
title: Conditional Production of Superpositions of Coherent States with Inefficient Photon Detection
authors: A.P. Lund, H. Jeong, T.C. Ralph, M.S. Kim
comments: Some important new results added, to appear in Phys.Rev.A (Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 020101(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401001
abstract: It is shown that a linear superposition of two macroscopically distinguishable optical coherent states can be generated using a single photon source and simple all-optical operations. Weak squeezing on a single photon, beam mixing with an auxiliary coherent state, and photon detecting with imperfect threshold detectors are enough to generate a coherent state superposition in a free propagating optical field with a large coherent amplitude ($\alpha>2$) and high fidelity ($F>0.99$). In contrast to all previous schemes to generate such a state, our scheme does not need photon number resolving measurements nor Kerr-type nonlinear interactions. Furthermore, it is robust to detection inefficiency and exhibits some resilience to photon production inefficiency.

id: quant-ph/0401002
title: Optical realization of optimal unambiguous discrimination for pure and mixed quantum states
authors: Masoud Mohseni, Aephraim M. Steinberg, J¨¢nos A. Bergou
comments: Some minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 200403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401002
abstract: Quantum mechanics forbids deterministic discrimination among non-orthogonal states. Nonetheless, the capability to distinguish nonorthogonal states unambiguously is an important primitive in quantum information processing. In this work, we experimentally implement generalized measurements in an optical system and demonstrate the first optimal unambiguous discrimination between three nonorthogonal states, with a success rate of 55%, to be compared with the 25% maximum achievable using projective measurements. Furthermore we present the first realization of unambiguous discrimination between a pure state and a nonorthogonal mixed state.

id: quant-ph/0401003
title: Optical tests of Bell's inequalities not resting upon the absurd fair sampling assumption
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401003
abstract: A simple local hidden-variables model is exhibited which reproduces the results of all performed tests of Bell\'{}s inequalities involving optical photon pairs. For the old atomic-cascade experiments, like Aspect\'{}s, the model agrees with quantum mechanics even for ideal set-ups. For more recent experiments, using parametric down-converted photons, the agreement occurs only for actual experiments, involving low efficiency detectors. Arguments are given against the fair sampling assumption, currently combined with the results of the experiments in order to claim a contradiction with local realism. New tests are proposed which are able to discriminate between quantum mechanics and a restricted, but appealing, family of local hidden-variables models. Such tests require detectors with efficiencies just above 20%.

id: quant-ph/0401004
title: Quantum Mechanics on discrete space and time
authors: M. Lorente
comments: Proceedings: M. Ferrero, A. van der Merwe, eds. New Developments on Fundamental Problems in Quantum Physics (Kluwer, N.Y. 1997) pp. 213-224. LaTeX, 12 pages (late submission)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401004
abstract: We propose the assumption of quantum mechanics on a discrete space and time, which implies the modification of mathematical expressions for some postulates of quantum mechanics. In particular we have a Hilbert space where the vectors are complex functions of discrete variable. As a concrete example we develop a discrete analog of the one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator, using the dependence of the Wigner functions in terms of Kravchuk polynomials. In this model the position operator has a discrete spectrum given by one index of the Wigner functions, in the same way that the energy eigenvalues are given by the other matricial index. Similar picture can be made for other models where the differential equation and their solutions correspond to the continuous limit of some difference operator and orthogonal polynomial of discrete variable.

id: quant-ph/0401005
title: Information Erasure and Recover in Quantum Memory
authors: Qing-Yu Cai
comments: PACS: 0365.Bz. 03.67.Hk;3pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21(7), 1189 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401005
abstract: We show that information in quantum memory can be erased and recovered perfectly if it is necessary. That the final states of environment are completely determined by the initial states of the system allows that an easure operation can be realized by a swap operation between system and an ancilla. Therefore, the erased information can be recoverd. When there is an irreversible process, e.g. an irreversible operation or a decoherence process, in the erasure process, the information would be erased perpetually. We present that quantum erasure will also give heat dissipation in environment. And a classical limit of quantum erasure is given which coincides with Landauer's erasure principle.

id: quant-ph/0401006
title: Endophysical information transfer in quantum processes
authors: Jon Eakins, George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401006
abstract: We give a mathematical criterion for the concept of information flow within closed quantum systems described by quantum registers. We define the concepts of separations and entanglements over quantum registers and use them with the quantum zip properties of inner products over quantum registers to establish the concept of partition change, which is fundamental to our criterion of endophysical information exchange within such quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0401007
title: Identifying entanglement using quantum "ghost" interference and imaging
authors: Milena D'Angelo, Yoon-Ho Kim, Sergei P. Kulik, Yanhua Shih
comments: We have changed Eq.(2) from one inequality to two inequalities. The two expressions are actually consistent with each other, but the new one represents a more stringent condition for entanglement and, in our opinion, better explains the original idea of EPR. We have clarified this point in the paper. 4 pages; submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401007
abstract: We report a quantum interference and imaging experiment which quantitatively demonstrates that Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type entangled two-photon states exhibit both momentum-momentum and position-position correlations, stronger than any classical correlation. The measurements show indeed that the uncertainties in the sum of momenta and in the difference of positions of the entangled two-photon satisfy both EPR inequalities D(k1+k2)<min(D(k1),D(k2)) and D(x1-x2)<min(D(x1),D(x2)). These two inequalities, together, represent a non-classicality condition. Our measurements provide a direct way to distinguish between quantum entanglement and classical correlation in continuous variables for two-photons/two photons systems.

id: quant-ph/0401008
title: Bohmian Mechanics with Discrete Operators
authors: R. A. Hyman, Shane A. Caldwell, Edward Dalton
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401008
abstract: A deterministic Bohmian mechanics for operators with continuous and discrete spectra is presented. Randomness enters only through initial conditions. Operators with discrete spectra are incorporated into Bohmian mechanics by associating with each operator a continuous variable in which a finite range of the continuous variable correspond to the same discrete eigenvalue. In this way Bohmian mechanics can handle the creation and annihilation of particles. Examples are given and generalizations are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401009
title: Maintenance of Coherence and Polarization Evolution in a Supersymmetric Multiphoton Model
authors: Jian Qi Shen, Zhi Chao Ruan
comments: 5 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401009
abstract: The elimination of decoherence of two-state quantum systems interacting with a thermal reservoir through an external controllable driving field is discussed in the present paper. The restriction equation with which the external controllable driving field should agree will be derived. Based on this, we obtain the time-development equation of the off-diagonal elements of density operator in the supersymmetric multiphoton two-state quantum systems, which is helpful for studying the polarization evolution in this two-state quantum model.

id: quant-ph/0401010
title: Control the entanglement of two atoms in an optical cavity via white noise
authors: Jing-Bo Xu, Shang-Bin Li
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 7: 72 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401010
abstract: Two two-level atoms within a leaky optical cavity is driven by two independent external optical white noise fields. We investigate how entanglement between two atoms arises in such a situation. The steady state entanglement of two atoms is also investigated. A stochastic-resonance-like behavior of entanglement is revealed. Finally, the Bell violation between atoms is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401011
title: Einstein-De Broglie relations on the lattice
authors: M. Lorente
comments: Proceedings: P. Kasper, D. Grau eds. 5th Wigner Symposium (World Scientific Singapure 1998) pp. 493-495. LaTeX, 7 pages, uses sprocl.sty (late submission)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401011
abstract: Historically the starting point of wave mechanics is the Planck and Einstein-de Broglie relations for the energy and momentum of a particle, where the momentum is connected to the group velocity of the wave packet. We translate the arguments given by de Broglie to the case of a wave defined on the grid points of a space-time lattice and explore the physical consequences such as integral period, wave length, discrete energy, momentum and rest mass.

id: quant-ph/0401012
title: Nonadiabatic effects of atomic motion inside a high Q optical cavity
authors: P. Zhang, Y. Li, C. P. Sun, L. You
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401012
abstract: We revisit the topic of atomic center of mass motion of a three level atom Raman coupled strongly to an external laser field and the quantum field of a high Q optical cavity. We focus on the motion related nonadiabatic effects of the atomic internal dynamics and provide a quantitative answer to the validity regime for the application of the motional insensitive dark state as recently suggested in Ref. [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 032305 (2003)].

id: quant-ph/0401013
title: Universal Test for Quantum One-Way Permutations
authors: Akinori Kawachi, Hirotada Kobayashi, Takeshi Koshiba, Rudy Raymond H. Putra
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. The previous version included some error. This is a corrected version. Fortunately, the proof is simplified and results are improved
journal: Theoretical Computer Science 345(2-3):370-385 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401013
abstract: The next bit test was introduced by Blum and Micali and proved by Yao to be a universal test for cryptographic pseudorandom generators. On the other hand, no universal test for the cryptographic one-wayness of functions (or permutations) is known, though the existence of cryptographic pseudorandom generators is equivalent to that of cryptographic one-way functions. In the quantum computation model, Kashefi, Nishimura and Vedral gave a sufficient condition of (cryptographic) quantum one-way permutations and conjectured that the condition would be necessary. In this paper, we affirmatively settle their conjecture and complete a necessary and sufficient for quantum one-way permutations. The necessary and sufficient condition can be regarded as a universal test for quantum one-way permutations, since the condition is described as a collection of stepwise tests similar to the next bit test for pseudorandom generators.

id: quant-ph/0401014
title: Technique of quantum state transfer for a double Lambda atomic beam
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, Xiao-Ting Zhou, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 70, 015603 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401014
abstract: The transfer technique of quantum states from light to collective atomic excitations in a double $\Lambda$ type system is extended to matter waves in this paper, as a novel scheme towards making a continuous atom laser. The intensity of the output matter waves is found to be determined by the initial relative phase of the two independent coherent probe lights, which may indicate an interesting method for the measurement of initial relative phase of two independent light sources.

id: quant-ph/0401015
title: Critical temperature for entanglement transition in Heisenberg models
authors: Hongchen Fu, Allan I Solomon, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 
journal: In "Group 24; Physical and Mathematical Aspects of Symmetries", Published by Institute of Physics, Conference Series 173, (2003) 535
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401015
abstract: We study thermal entanglement in some low-dimensional Heisenberg models. It is found that in each model there is a critical temperature above which thermal entanglement is absent.

id: quant-ph/0401016
title: Quantum-implemented selective reconstruction of high-resolution images
authors: Mitja Perus, Horst Bischof, Chu Kiong Loo
comments: 4 pages, 15 figures, essentials
journal: An improved version see in: Appl. Opt. 43(33) (2004) 6134-8, (c) by Optical Society of America, Inc.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401016
abstract: This paper proposes quantum image reconstruction. Input-triggered selection of an image among many stored ones, and its reconstruction if the input is occluded or noisy, has been simulated by a computer program implementable in a real quantum-physical system. It is based on the Hopfield associative net; the quantum-wave implementation bases on holography. The main limitations of the classical Hopfield net are much reduced with the new, original -- quantum-optical -- implementation. Image resolution can be almost arbitrarily increased.

id: quant-ph/0401017
title: What's wrong with Einstein's 1927 hidden-variable interpretation of quantum mechanics?
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 
journal: Found. Phys. 35, 177-196 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401017
abstract: Einstein's unpublished 1927 deterministic trajectory interpretation of quantum mechanics is critically examined, in particular with regard to the reason given by Einstein for rejecting his theory. It is shown that the aspect Einstein found objectionable - the mutual dependence of the motions of particles when the (many-body) wavefunction factorises - is a generic attribute of his theory but that this feature may be removed by modifying Einstein's method in either of two ways: using a suggestion of Grommer or, in a physically important special case, using a simpler technique. It is emphasized though that the presence or absence of the interdependence property does not determine the acceptability of a trajectory theory. It is shown that there are other grounds for rejecting Einstein's theory (and the two modified theories), to do with its domain of applicability and compatibility with empirical predictions. That Einstein's reason for rejection is not a priori grounds for discarding a trajectory theory is demonstrated by reference to an alternative deterministic trajectory theory that displays similar particle interdependence yet is compatible with quantum predictions.

id: quant-ph/0401018
title: Extracting quantum dynamics from genetic learning algorithms through principal control analysis
authors: J. L. White, B. J. Pearson, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Presented at coherent control Ringberg conference 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401018
abstract: Genetic learning algorithms are widely used to control ultrafast optical pulse shapes for photo-induced quantum control of atoms and molecules. An unresolved issue is how to use the solutions found by these algorithms to learn about the system's quantum dynamics. We propose a simple method based on covariance analysis of the control space, which can reveal the degrees of freedom in the effective control Hamiltonian. We have applied this technique to stimulated Raman scattering in liquid methanol. A simple model of two-mode stimulated Raman scattering is consistent with the results.

id: quant-ph/0401019
title: Quantum computing
authors: J. Eisert, M.M. Wolf
comments: 35 pages, LaTeX (svmult.sty), 5 figures. Invited book chapter of the "Handbook of Nature-Inspired and Innovative Computing" (Springer, Berlin Heidelberg New York, 2006); minor stylistic changes
journal: In: "Handbook of Nature-Inspired and Innovative Computing" (Springer, New York, 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401019
abstract: This article gives an elementary introduction to quantum computing. It is a draft for a book chapter of the "Handbook of Nature-Inspired and Innovative Computing", Eds. A. Zomaya, G.J. Milburn, J. Dongarra, D. Bader, R. Brent, M. Eshaghian-Wilner, F. Seredynski (Springer, Berlin Heidelberg New York, 2006).

id: quant-ph/0401020
title: Scalable Trapped Ion Quantum Computation with a Probabilistic Ion-Photon Mapping
authors: L.-M. Duan, B. B. Blinov, D. L. Moehring, C. Monroe
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 4, 165-173 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401020
abstract: We propose a method for scaling trapped ions for large-scale quantum computation and communication based on a probabilistic ion-photon mapping. Deterministic quantum gates between remotely located trapped ions can be achieved through detection of spontaneously-emitted photons, accompanied by the local Coulomb interaction between neighboring ions. We discuss gate speeds and tolerance to experimental noise for different probabilistic entanglement schemes.

id: quant-ph/0401021
title: The information entropy of quantum mechanical states
authors: Alexander Stotland, Andrei A. Pomeransky, Eitan Bachmat, Doron Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhysics Letters 67, 700 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401021
abstract: It is well known that a Shannon based definition of information entropy leads in the classical case to the Boltzmann entropy. It is tempting to regard the Von Neumann entropy as the corresponding quantum mechanical definition. But the latter is problematic from quantum information point of view. Consequently we introduce a new definition of entropy that reflects the inherent uncertainty of quantum mechanical states. We derive for it an explicit expression, and discuss some of its general properties. We distinguish between the minimum uncertainty entropy of pure states, and the excess statistical entropy of mixtures.

id: quant-ph/0401022
title: A CH-type Inequality For Real Experiments
authors: Afshin Shafiee
comments: 4 pages, no figure. To appear in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 51, 1073 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401022
abstract: We derive an efficient CH-type inequality. Quantum mechanics violates our proposed inequality independent of the detection-efficiency problem.

id: quant-ph/0401023
title: Multipartite Entanglement under Stochastic Local Operations and Classical Communication
authors: Akimasa Miyake
comments: 13 pages, 3 eps figures, to appear in the special issue of Int. J. Quant. Info. for the EQIS'03 conference
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 2, 65-77 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401023
abstract: Stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), also called local filtering operations, are a convenient, useful set of quantum operations in grasping essential properties of entanglement. We give a quick overview about the characteristics of multipartite entanglement in terms of SLOCC, illustrating the 2-qubit and the rest (2 x 2 x n) quantum system. This not only includes celebrated results of 3-qubit pure states, but also has implications to 2-qubit mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0401024
title: Qubit Field Theory
authors: David Deutsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401024
abstract: The canonical commutation relations of quantum field theory require all pairs of observables located in spacelike-separated regions to commute. In the theory as it is currently constituted, this implies that the information-carrying capacity of a finite volume of space is infinite. Yet Bekenstein's bound gives us strong reason to believe that it is finite. A class of quantum field theories is presented in which observables localised in spacelike-separated regions do not necessarily commute, but which nevertheless has no physical pathologies.

id: quant-ph/0401025
title: Squeezed-light source for the superresolving microscopy
authors: Ivan V. Sokolov, Mikhail I. Kolobov
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4. Shortened version will appear in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401025
abstract: We propose a source of multimode squeezed light that can be used for the superresolving microscopy beyond the standard quantum limit. This source is an optical parametric amplifier with a properly chosen diaphragm on its output and a Fourier lens. We demonstrate that such an arrangement produces squeezed prolate spheroidal waves which are the eigen modes of the optical imaging scheme used in microscopy. The degree of squeezing and the number of spatial modes in illuminating light, necessary for the effective object field reconstruction, are evaluated

id: quant-ph/0401026
title: Comments on multiplicativity of maximal p-norms when p = 2
authors: Christopher King, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 16 pages. For the Festschrift in honor of A. Holevo's 60th birthday
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 4, 500-512 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401026
abstract: We consider the maximal p-norm associated with a completely positive map and the question of its multiplicativity under tensor products. We give a condition under which this multiplicativity holds when p = 2, and we describe some maps which satisfy our condition. This class includes maps for which multiplicativity is known to fail for large p. Our work raises some questions of independent interest in matrix theory; these are discussed in two appendices.

id: quant-ph/0401027
title: Less (precision) is more (information): quantum information in fuzzy probability theory
authors: Paul Busch
comments: 16 pages LaTex. Contribution to International Conference on Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations -2, Vaxjo, 1-6 June 2003. Reason for replacement: TeXnical problem removed, to facilitate pdf conversion
journal: Proceedings, A Khrennikov (ed.), Vaxjo University Press, pp. 113-128 (2004), ISBN: 978-9176364093
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401027
abstract: A comparison of structural features of quantum and classical physical theories, such as the information capacity of systems subject to these theories, requires a common formal framework for the presentation of corresponding concepts (such as states, observables, probability, entropy). Such a framework is provided by the notion of statistical model developed in the convexity approach to statistical physical theories. Here we use statistical models to classify and survey all possible types of embedding and extension of quantum probabilistic theories subject to certain reasonable constraints. It will be shown that the so-called canonical classical extension of quantum mechanics is essentially the only `good' representation of the quantum statistical model in a classical framework. All quantum observables are thus identified as fuzzy classical random variables.

id: quant-ph/0401028
title: Creation of atomic coherent superpositions in manifolds of levels without multi-photon resonance
authors: Yueping Niu, Shangqing Gong, Ruxin Li, Shiqi Jin
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401028
abstract: We propose a scheme for creating atomic coherent superpositions via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a Lambda-type system where the final state has twofold levels. In the employ of a control field, the presence of double dark states leads to two arbitrary coherent superposition states with equal amplitude but inverse relative phase without the condition of multi-photon resonance. In particular, two orthogonal maximal coherent superposition states are created when the control field is resonant with the transition of the twofold levels. This scheme can also be extended to manifold Lambda-type systems.

id: quant-ph/0401029
title: Phase Transitions in Generalised Spin-Boson (Dicke) Models
authors: Clive Emary, Tobias Brandes
comments: 6 pages, 5 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 053804 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401029
abstract: We consider a class of generalised single mode Dicke Hamiltonians with arbitrary boson coupling in the pseudo-spin $x$-$z$ plane. We find exact solutions in the thermodynamic, large-spin limit as a function of the coupling angle, which allows us to continuously move between the simple dephasing and the original Dicke Hamiltonians. Only in the latter case (orthogonal static and fluctuating couplings), does the parity-symmetry induced quantum phase transition occur.

id: quant-ph/0401030
title: Time-dependent unitary perturbation theory for intense laser driven molecular orientation
authors: D. Sugny, A. Keller, O. Atabek, D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 043407 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401030
abstract: We apply a time-dependent perturbation theory based on unitary transformations combined with averaging techniques, on molecular orientation dynamics by ultrashort pulses. We test the validity and the accuracy of this approach on LiCl described within a rigid-rotor model and find that it is more accurate than other approximations. Furthermore, it is shown that a noticeable orientation can be achieved for experimentally standard short laser pulses of zero time average. In this case, we determine the dynamically relevant parameters by using the perturbative propagator, that is derived from this scheme, and we investigate the temperature effects on the molecular orientation dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0401031
title: Quantum wave packet revivals
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 149 pages, 46 figures, 310 references, uses revtex4 and rmp style. To appear in Physics Reports
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401031
abstract: The numerical prediction, theoretical analysis, and experimental verification of the phenomenon of wave packet revivals in quantum systems has flourished over the last decade and a half. Quantum revivals are characterized by initially localized quantum states which have a short-term, quasi-classical time evolution, which then can spread significantly over several orbits, only to reform later in the form of a quantum revival in which the spreading reverses itself, the wave packet relocalizes, and the semi-classical periodicity is once again evident. Relocalization of the initial wave packet into a number of smaller copies of the initial packet (`minipackets' or `clones') is also possible, giving rise to fractional revivals. Systems exhibiting such behavior are a fundamental realization of time-dependent interference phenomena for bound states with quantized energies in quantum mechanics and are therefore of wide interest in the physics and chemistry communities. We review the theoretical machinery of quantum wave packet construction leading to the existence of revivals and fractional revivals, in systems with one (or more) quantum number(s), as well as discussing how information on the classical period and revival time is encoded in the energy eigenvalue spectrum. We discuss a number of one-dimensional model systems which exhibit revival behavior, including the infinite well, the quantum bouncer, and others, as well as several two-dimensional integrable quantum billiard systems. Finally, we briefly review the experimental evidence for wave packet revivals in atomic, molecular, and other systems, and related revival phenomena in condensed matter and optical systems.

id: quant-ph/0401032
title: Control of trapped-ion quantum states with optical pulses
authors: C. Rangan, A.M.Bloch, C. Monroe, P.H. Bucksbaum
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 113004 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401032
abstract: We present new results on the quantum control of systems with infinitely large Hilbert spaces. A control-theoretic analysis of the control of trapped ion quantum states via optical pulses is performed. We demonstrate how resonant bichromatic fields can be applied in two contrasting ways -- one that makes the system completely uncontrollable, and the other that makes the system controllable. In some interesting cases, the Hilbert space of the qubit-harmonic oscillator can be made finite, and the Schr\"{o}dinger equation controllable via bichromatic resonant pulses. Extending this analysis to the quantum states of two ions, a new scheme for producing entangled qubits is discovered.

id: quant-ph/0401033
title: Quantum channel using photon number correlated twin beams
authors: Yun Zhang, Katsuyuki Kasai, Kazuhiro Hayasaka
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures and 1 table
journal: Optics, Express 11, 3592 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401033
abstract: We report quantum communications channel using photon number correlated twin beams. The twin beams are generated from a nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator, and the photon number difference is used to encode the signal. The bit error rate of our system will be 0.067 by using the twin beams comparing with 0.217 by using the coherent state as the signal carrier.

id: quant-ph/0401034
title: Quantum entanglement and Bell violation of two coupled cavity fields in dissipative environment
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Optics B-Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 6 (9): 373 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401034
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement between two coupled cavities, in which one is initially prepared in a mesoscopic superposition state and the other is in the vacuum in dissipative environment and show how the entanglement between two cavities can arise in the dissipative environment. The dynamic behavior of the nonlocality for the system is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0401035
title: On the classical limit of the hyperbolic quantum mechanics
authors: Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: Coupling with relativistic quantum physics
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics 10, 421-438 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401035
abstract: We demonstrated that classical mechanics have, besides the well known quantum deformation, another deformation -- so called hyperbolic quantum mechanics. The classical Poisson bracket can be obtained as the limit $h\to 0$ not only of the ordinary Moyal bracket, but also hyperbolic analogue of the Moyal bracket. Thus there are two different deformations of classical phase-space: complex Hilbert space and hyperbolic Hilbert space (module over a so called hyperbolic algebra -- the two dimensional Clifford algebra). To prove the correspondence principle we use the calculus over the hyperbolic algebra similar to functional superanalysis of Vladimirov-Volovich. Ordinary (complex) and hyperbolic quantum mechanics are characterized by two types of interference perturbation of the classical formula of total probability: ordinary $\cos$-interference and hyperbolic $\cosh$-interference.

id: quant-ph/0401036
title: Conditional implementation of asymmetrical universal quantum cloning machine
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted for pulication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401036
abstract: We propose two feasible experimental implementations of an optimal asymmetric 1->2 quantum cloning of a polarization state of photon. Both implementations are based on a partial and optimal reverse of recent conditional symmetrical quantum cloning experiments. The reversion procedure is performed only by a local measurement of one from the clones and ancilla followed by a local operation on the other clone. The local measurement consists only of a single unbalanced beam splitter followed in one output by a single photon detector and the asymmetry of fidelities in the cloning is controlled by a reflectivity of the beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0401037
title: Bell states, mutually unbiased bases and the Mean King's problem
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: Original paper replaced in June 2005 for the following reason: new material added (connections with Aravind's general solution and discrete Wigner functions were established in the meanwhile)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401037
abstract: When the state of a quantum system belongs to a N-dimensional Hilbert space, with N the power of a prime number, it is possible to associate to the system a finite field (Galois field) with N elements. In this paper, we introduce generalized Bell states that can be intrinsically expressed in terms of the field operations.These Bell states are in one to one correspondence with the N^2 elements of the generalised Pauli group or Heisenberg-Weyl group. This group consists of discrete displacement operators and provides a discrete realisation of the Weyl function.Thanks to the properties of generalised Bell states and of quadratic extensions of finite fields, we derive a particular solution for the Mean King's problem. This solution is in turn shown to be in one to one correspondence with a set of N^2 self-adjoint operators that provides a discrete realisation of the Wigner quasi-distribution.

id: quant-ph/0401038
title: Survival of quantum effects for observables after decoherence
authors: G.P. Berman, A.R. Bishop, F. Borgonovi, D.A.R. Dalvit
comments: submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062110 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401038
abstract: When a quantum nonlinear system is linearly coupled to an infinite bath of harmonic oscillators, quantum coherence of the system is lost on a decoherence time-scale $\tau_D$. Nevertheless, quantum effects for observables may still survive environment-induced decoherence, and be observed for times much larger than the decoherence time-scale. In particular, we show that the Ehrenfest time, which characterizes a departure of quantum dynamics for observables from the corresponding classical dynamics, can be observed for a quasi-classical nonlinear oscillator for times $\tau \gg\tau_D$. We discuss this observation in relation to recent experiments on quantum nonlinear systems in the quasi-classical region of parameters.

id: quant-ph/0401039
title: Quantum partial teleportation as optimal cloning at a distance
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401039
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme of conditional quantum partial teleportation of a qubit as optimal asymmetric cloning at a distance. In this scheme, Alice preserves one imperfect clone whereas other clone is teleported to Bob. Fidelities of the clones can be simply controlled by an asymmetry in Bell-state measurement. The optimality means that tightest inequality for the fidelities in the asymmetric cloning is saturated. Further we design a conditional teleportation as symmetric optimal N-> N+1 cloning from N Alice's replicas on single distant clone. We shortly discussed two feasible experimental implementations, first one for teleportation of polarization state of a photon and second one, for teleportation of a time-bin qubit.

id: quant-ph/0401040
title: Quantum Cellular Automata Pseudo-Random Maps
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 69, 062301, (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401040
abstract: Quantum computation based on quantum cellular automata (QCA) can greatly reduce the control and precision necessary for experimental implementations of quantum information processing. A QCA system consists of a few species of qubits in which all qubits of a species evolve in parallel. We show that, in spite of its inherent constraints, a QCA system can be used to study complex quantum dynamics. To this aim, we demonstrate scalable operations on a QCA system that fulfill statistical criteria of randomness and explore which criteria of randomness can be fulfilled by operators from various QCA architectures. Other means of realizing random operators with only a few independent operators are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401041
title: Quantum Watermarking by Frequency of Error when Observing Qubits in Dissimilar Bases
authors: G Gordon Worley III
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, added example
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401041
abstract: We present a so-called fuzzy watermarking scheme based on the relative frequency of error in observing qubits in a dissimilar basis from the one in which they were written. Then we discuss possible attacks on the system and speculate on how to implement this watermarking scheme for particular kinds of messages (images, formated text, etc.).

id: quant-ph/0401042
title: Conditional implementation of a quantum phase gate with distant atoms trapped in different optical cavities
authors: XuBo Zou, W. Mathis
comments: 4pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401042
abstract: We propose a scheme for conditional implementation of a quantum phase gate by using distant atoms trapped in different optical cavities. Instead of direct interaction between atoms, the present scheme makes use of quantum interference of polarized photons decaying from the optical cavities to conditionally create the desired quantum phase gate between two distant atoms. The proposed scheme only needs linear optical elements and a two-fold coincidence detection, and are insensitive to the quantum noise. The scheme can be directly used to prepare any quantum state of many distant atoms.

id: quant-ph/0401043
title: Propagator Of A Particle In A Photonic And A Magnetic Field And Evolution Of A Coherent State
authors: E. G. Thrapsaniotis
comments: 12 pages, no figures. The present paper in the present form is not going to appear anywhere else. (Both versions are identical but in v2 the PaperId has been added.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401043
abstract: In the present paper we study the interaction of a photonic field with a particle in a magnetic field. We use formalism similar to the Born-Oppenheimer approximation of molecular physics and we eliminate the photonic field variables by using a method related to the Berry phase to obtain an effective Hamiltonian and then extract the propagator of the particle. As an initial photonic state we assume a coherent one.

id: quant-ph/0401044
title: Geometric phase in optics and angular momentum of light
authors: S C Tiwari
comments: Revised in the light of referee's comments;references added;abstract changed;submitted to J Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics,vol 51,No 15 pp2297-2304, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401044
abstract: Physical mechanism for the geometric phase in terms of angular momentum exchange is elucidated. It is argued that the geometric phase arising out of the cyclic changes in the tranverse mode space of the Gaussian light beams is a manifestation of the cycles in the momentum space of the light. Nonconservation of angular momentum in the spontaneous parametric down-conversion for the classical light beams is proposed to be related with the geometric phase.

id: quant-ph/0401045
title: Ionization of Rydberg atoms embedded in an ultracold plasma
authors: Nicolas Vanhaecke, Daniel Comparat, Duncan A. Tate, Pierre Pillet
comments: To be published in P.R.A
journal: Physical Review A 71 (2005) 013416
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401045
abstract: We have studied the behavior of cold Rydberg atoms embedded in an ultracold plasma. We demonstrate that even deeply bound Rydberg atoms are completely ionized in such an environment, due to electron collisions. Using a fast pulse extraction of the electrons from the plasma we found that the number of excess positive charges, which is directly related to the electron temperature Te, is not strongly affected by the ionization of the Rydberg atoms. Assuming a Michie-King equilibrium distribution, in analogy with globular star cluster dynamics, we estimate Te. Without concluding on heating or cooling of the plasma by the Rydberg atoms, we discuss the range for changing the plasma temperature by adding Rydberg atoms.

id: quant-ph/0401046
title: If 1=2+3, then 1=2.3: Bell states, finite groups, and mutually unbiased bases, a unifying approach
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: Original version replaced after two days: essential reason: important reference added. (small changes: typo's, formulation...)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401046
abstract: We study the relationship between Bell states, finite groups and complete sets of bases. We show how to obtain a set of N+1 bases in which Bell states are invariant. They generalize the X, Y and Z qubit bases and are associated to groups of unitary transformations that generalize the sigma operators of Pauli. When the dimension N is a prime power, we derive (in agreement with well-known results) a set of mutually unbiased bases. We show how they can be expressed in terms of the (operations of the) associated finite field of N elements.

id: quant-ph/0401047
title: Planar Ion Trap Geometry for Microfabrication
authors: M. J. Madsen, W. K. Hensinger, D. Stick, J. A. Rabchuk, C. Monroe
comments: 14 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401047
abstract: We describe a novel high aspect ratio radiofrequency linear ion trap geometry that is amenable to modern microfabrication techniques. The ion trap electrode structure consists of a pair of stacked conducting cantilevers resulting in confining fields that take the form of fringe fields from parallel plate capacitors. The confining potentials are modeled both analytically and numerically. This ion trap geometry may form the basis for large scale quantum computers or parallel quadrupole mass spectrometers. PACS: 39.25.+k, 03.67.Lx, 07.75.+h, 07.10+Cm

id: quant-ph/0401048
title: N-Partite Separability Inequalities Exponentially Stronger Than Local Reality inequalities
authors: S. M. Roy
comments: 8 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401048
abstract: For an N-partite quantum system we show that separability implies inequalities on Bell correlations which are stronger than the local reality inequalities by a factor 2^{(N-1)/2}.

id: quant-ph/0401049
title: Quantum interference and local field effects in a medium of V-type three-level atoms
authors: M.G. Gladush, A.A. Panteleev, Vl.K. Roerich
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401049
abstract: We study the intrinsic optical bistability displayed by a small sample of $V$-type three-level atoms induced by the near dipole-dipole interaction. The use of the coherent state properties in the limit of the generalized second-order Born approximation for BBGKY-hierarchy of equations for the reduced density operators allows one to derive the operator describing the near dipole-dipole interaction (local field correction) with interference terms involving no additional assumptions. The dynamics of populations of the excited states and the total spontaneous intensity are analysed as functions of the external laser field strength allowing for the off-diagonal structure of the local field and relaxation operators.

id: quant-ph/0401050
title: Cooperative quantum jumps for three dipole-interacting atoms
authors: Volker Hannstein, Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures. Revised version, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 023820 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401050
abstract: We investigate the effect of the dipole-dipole interaction on the quantum jump statistics of three atoms. This is done for three-level systems in a V configuration and in what may be called a D configuration. The transition rates between the four different intensity periods are calculated in closed form. Cooperative effects are shown to increase by a factor of 2 compared to two of either three-level systems. This results in transition rates that are, for distances of about one wavelength of the strong transition, up to 100% higher than for independent systems. In addition the double and triple jump rates are calculated from the transition rates. In this case cooperative effects of up to 170% for distances of about one wavelength and still up to 15% around 10 wavelengths are found. Nevertheless, for the parameters of an experiment with Hg+ ions the effects are negligible, in agreement with the experimental data. For three Ba+ ions this seems to indicate that the large cooperative effects observed experimentally cannot be explained by the dipole-dipole interaction.

id: quant-ph/0401051
title: Non-Markovian dynamics in a spin star system: Exact solution and approximation techniques
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Daniel Burgarth, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures; submitted to PRB
journal: Physical Review B 70, 045323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401051
abstract: The reduced dynamics of a central spin coupled to a bath of N spin-1/2 particles arranged in a spin star configuration is investigated. The exact time evolution of the reduced density operator is derived, and an analytical solution is obtained in the limit of an infinite number of bath spins, where the model shows complete relaxation and partial decoherence. It is demonstrated that the dynamics of the central spin cannot be treated within the Born-Markov approximation. The Nakajima-Zwanzig and the time-convolutionless projection operator technique are applied to the spin star system. The performance of the corresponding perturbation expansions of the non-Markovian equations of motion is examined through a comparison with the exact solution.

id: quant-ph/0401052
title: In defense of the epistemic view of quantum states: a toy theory
authors: Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 32 pages, REVTEX, based on a talk given at the Rob Clifton Memorial Conference, College Park, May 2003; v2: minor modifications throughout, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401052
abstract: We present a toy theory that is based on a simple principle: the number of questions about the physical state of a system that are answered must always be equal to the number that are unanswered in a state of maximal knowledge. A wide variety of quantum phenomena are found to have analogues within this toy theory. Such phenomena include: the noncommutativity of measurements, interference, the multiplicity of convex decompositions of a mixed state, the impossibility of discriminating nonorthogonal states, the impossibility of a universal state inverter, the distinction between bi-partite and tri-partite entanglement, the monogamy of pure entanglement, no cloning, no broadcasting, remote steering, teleportation, dense coding, mutually unbiased bases, and many others. The diversity and quality of these analogies is taken as evidence for the view that quantum states are states of incomplete knowledge rather than states of reality. A consideration of the phenomena that the toy theory fails to reproduce, notably, violations of Bell inequalities and the existence of a Kochen-Specker theorem, provides clues for how to proceed with this research program.

id: quant-ph/0401053
title: Spectra of Quantized Walks and a $\sqrt{¦Ä¦Å}$ rule
authors: Mario Szegedy
comments: 27pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401053
abstract: We introduce quantized bipartite walks, compute their spectra, generalize the algorithms of Grover \cite{g} and Ambainis \cite{amb03} and interpret them as quantum walks with memory. We compare the performance of walk based classical and quantum algorithms and show that the latter run much quicker in general. Let $P$ be a symmetric Markov chain with transition probabilities $P[i,j]$, $(i ,j\in [n])$. Some elements of the state space are marked. We are promised that the set of marked elements has size either zero or at least $\epsilon n$. The goal is to find out with great certainty which of the above two cases holds. Our model is a black box that can answer certain yes/no questions and can generate random elements picked from certain distributions. More specifically, by request the black box can give us a uniformly distributed random element for the cost of $\wp_{0}$. Also, when ``inserting'' an element $i$ into the black box we can obtain a random element $j$, where $j$ is distributed according to $P[i,j]$. The cost of the latter operation is $\wp_{1}$. Finally, we can use the black box to test if an element $i$ is marked, and this costs us $\wp_{2}$. If $\delta$ is the eigenvalue gap of $P$, there is a simple classical algorithm with cost $O(\wp_{0} + (\wp_{1}+\wp_{2})/\delta\epsilon)$ that solves the above promise problem. (The algorithm is efficient if $\wp_{0}$ is much larger than $\wp_{1}+\wp_{2}$.) In contrast,we show that for the ``quantized'' version of the algorithm it costs only $O(\wp_{0} + (\wp_{1}+\wp_{2})/\sqrt{\delta\epsilon})$ to solve the problem. We refer to this as the $\sqrt{\delta\epsilon}$ rule. Among the technical contributions we give a formula for the spectrum of the product of two general reflections.

id: quant-ph/0401054
title: Teleportation of a two-particle entangled state via W class states
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Wei Song
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401054
abstract: A scheme for teleporting an unknown two-particle entangled state via W class states is proposed. In this scheme, the W class entangled states are considered as quantum channels. It is shown that by means of optimal discrimination between two nonorthogonal quantum states, probabilistic teleportation of the two-particle entangled state can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0401055
title: Characterization and quantification of symmetric Gaussian state entanglement through a local classicality criterion
authors: M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012317 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401055
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition for characterization and quantification of entanglement of any bipartite Gaussian state belonging to a special symmetry class is given in terms of classicality measures of one-party states. For Gaussian states whose local covariance matrices have equal determinants it is shown that separability of a two-party state and classicality of one party state are completely equivalent to each other under a nonlocal operation, allowing entanglement features to be understood in terms of any available classicality measure.

id: quant-ph/0401056
title: On the P-representable subset of all bipartite Gaussian separable states
authors: M. C. de Oliveira
comments: Final version with new results added. Slightly more detailed than the accepted manuscript (to appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 034303 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401056
abstract: P-representability is a necessary and sufficient condition for separability of bipartite Gaussian states only for the special subset of states whose covariance matrix are $Sp(2,R)\otimes Sp(2,R)$ locally invariant. Although this special class of states can be reached by a convenient $Sp(2,R)\otimes Sp(2,R)$ transformation over an arbitrary covariance matrix, it represents a loss of generality, avoiding inference of many general aspects of separability of bipartite Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0401057
title: Unconditionally Secure Quantum m-out-of-n Oblivious Transfer
authors: Zhide Chen, Tianming Bu, Hong Zhu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401057
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0401058
title: Two-Qubits Entanglement Induced by a Faster Data Bus
authors: P. Zhang, Y. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401058
abstract: We propose a theoretical protocol to create the entanglement of two qubits via the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation. In our scheme, each qubit is coupled to a faster data bus whose frequency is much larger than the energy spacing of the qubits and thus the BO approximation is valid. Then the adiabatic separation of qubits from the data bus can induce an effective potential to couple the two qubits, which can be utilized to create a quantum logic gate. We also discuss the quantum decoherence caused by the adiabatic entanglement between the two qubits and the external field.

id: quant-ph/0401059
title: A New Proof of The Strong Subadditivity Theorem
authors: Yong-Jian Han, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401059
abstract: It is well known that the strong subadditivity theorem is hold for classical system, but it is very difficult to prove that it is hold for quantum system. The first proof of this theorem is due to Lieb by using the Lieb's theorem. Here we use the conditions obtained in our previous work of matrix analysis method to give a new proof of this famous theorem. This new proof is very elementary, it only needs to carefully analyse the minimal value of a function. This proof also shows that the conditions obtained in our previous work are stronger than the strong subadditivity theorem.

id: quant-ph/0401060
title: Quantum and Classical Message Identification via Quantum Channels
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 18 pages, requires Rinton-P9x6.cls. On the occasion of Alexander Holevo's 60th birthday. Version 2 has a few theorems knocked off: Y Steinberg has pointed out a crucial error in my statements on simultaneous ID codes. They are all gone and replaced by a speculative remark. The central results of the paper are all unharmed. In v3: proof of Proposition 17 corrected, without change of its statement
journal: Festschrift "A S Holevo 60" (O. Hirota, ed.), pp 171-188, Rinton Press, 2004. Reprinted in Quantum Inf. Comput., vol. 4(6&7), pp 563-578, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401060
abstract: We discuss concepts of message identification in the sense of Ahlswede and Dueck via general quantum channels, extending investigations for classical channels, initial work for classical-quantum (cq) channels and "quantum fingerprinting". We show that the identification capacity of a discrete memoryless quantum channel for classical information can be larger than that for transmission; this is in contrast to all previously considered models, where it turns out to equal the common randomness capacity (equals transmission capacity in our case): in particular, for a noiseless qubit, we show the identification capacity to be 2, while transmission and common randomness capacity are 1. Then we turn to a natural concept of identification of quantum messages (i.e. a notion of "fingerprint" for quantum states). This is much closer to quantum information transmission than its classical counterpart (for one thing, the code length grows only exponentially, compared to double exponentially for classical identification). Indeed, we show how the problem exhibits a nice connection to visible quantum coding. Astonishingly, for the noiseless qubit channel this capacity turns out to be 2: in other words, one can compress two qubits into one and this is optimal. In general however, we conjecture quantum identification capacity to be different from classical identification capacity.

id: quant-ph/0401061
title: Frustration, interaction strength and ground-state entanglement in complex quantum systems
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69 (5): Art. No. 052316 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401061
abstract: Entanglement in the ground state of a many-body quantum system may arise when the local terms in the system Hamiltonian fail to commute with the interaction terms in the Hamiltonian. We quantify this phenomenon, demonstrating an analogy between ground-state entanglement and the phenomenon of frustration in spin systems. In particular, we prove that the amount of ground-state entanglement is bounded above by a measure of the extent to which interactions frustrate the local terms in the Hamiltonian. As a corollary, we show that the amount of ground-state entanglement is bounded above by a ratio between parameters characterizing the strength of interactions in the system, and the local energy scale. Finally, we prove a qualitatively similar result for other energy eigenstates of the system.

id: quant-ph/0401062
title: Is Quantum Mechanics An Island In Theoryspace?
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 9 pages, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401062
abstract: This recreational paper investigates what happens if we change quantum mechanics in several ways. The main results are as follows. First, if we replace the 2-norm by some other p-norm, then there are no nontrivial norm-preserving linear maps. Second, if we relax the demand that norm be preserved, we end up with a theory that allows rapid solution of PP-complete problems (as well as superluminal signalling). And third, if we restrict amplitudes to be real, we run into a difficulty much simpler than the usual one based on parameter-counting of mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0401063
title: Quantum Mechanics Unscrambled
authors: Jean-Michel Delhotel
comments: 25 pages, no figures, final version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401063
abstract: Is quantum mechanics about 'states'? Or is it basically another kind of probability theory? It is argued that the elementary formalism of quantum mechanics operates as a well-justified alternative to 'classical' instantiations of a probability calculus. Its providing a general framework for prediction accounts for its distinctive traits, which one should be careful not to mistake for reflections of any strange ontology. The suggestion is also made that quantum theory unwittingly emerged, in Schroedinger's formulation, as a 'lossy' by-product of a quantum-mechanical variant of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation. As it turns out, the effectiveness of quantum theory qua predictive algorithm makes up for the computational impracticability of that master equation.

id: quant-ph/0401064
title: PT symmetry of a conditionally exactly solvable potential
authors: Anjana Sinha, Geza Levai, Pinaki Roy
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401064
abstract: A conditionally exactly solvable potential, the supersymmetric partner of the harmonic oscillator is investigated in the PT-symmetric setting. It is shown that a number of properties characterizing shape-invariant and Natanzon-class potentials generated by an imaginary coordinate shift $x-{\rm i}\epsilon$ also hold for this potential outside the Natanzon class.

id: quant-ph/0401065
title: General criterion for the entanglement of two indistinguishable particles
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 18 pages, Latex; revised version: Section 3.2 rewritten, new Theorems added, reference [1] corrected. To appear on Phys.Rev.A 70, (2004)
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 70, 012109 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401065
abstract: We relate the notion of entanglement for quantum systems composed of two identical constituents to the impossibility of attributing a complete set of properties to both particles. This implies definite constraints on the mathematical form of the state vector associated with the whole system. We then analyze separately the cases of fermion and boson systems, and we show how the consideration of both the Slater-Schmidt number of the fermionic and bosonic analog of the Schmidt decomposition of the global state vector and the von Neumann entropy of the one-particle reduced density operators can supply us with a consistent criterion for detecting entanglement. In particular, the consideration of the von Neumann entropy is particularly useful in deciding whether the correlations of the considered states are simply due to the indistinguishability of the particles involved or are a genuine manifestation of the entanglement. The treatment leads to a full clarification of the subtle aspects of entanglement of two identical constituents which have been a source of embarrassment and of serious misunderstandings in the recent literature.

id: quant-ph/0401066
title: Charge detection enables free-electron quantum computation
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, D.P. DiVincenzo, C. Emary, M. Kindermann
comments: 5 pages including 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93, 020501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401066
abstract: It is known that a quantum computer operating on electron-spin qubits with single-electron Hamiltonians and assisted by single-spin measurements can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer. We show that the exponential speed-up of quantum algorithms is restored if single-charge measurements are added. These enable the construction of a CNOT (controlled NOT) gate for free fermions, using only beam splitters and spin rotations. The gate is nearly deterministic if the charge detector counts the number of electrons in a mode, and fully deterministic if it only measures the parity of that number.

id: quant-ph/0401067
title: Measuring polynomial functions of states
authors: Todd A. Brun
comments: Minor revisions in response to referee comments
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 4, 401 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401067
abstract: In this paper I show that any $m$th-degree polynomial function of the elements of the density matrix $\rho$ can be determined by finding the expectation value of an observable on $m$ copies of $\rho$, without performing state tomography. Since a circuit exists which can approximate the measurement of any observable, in principle one can find a circuit which will estimate any such polynomial function by averaging over many runs. I construct some simple examples and compare these results to existing procedures.

id: quant-ph/0401068
title: The Dirac Field in Real Domain
authors: Krunoslav Ljolje
comments: 15 pages, 98 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401068
abstract: The Dirac field is analysed in real domain. A connection with the classical field theory is shown and corresponding relation to the quantum physics.

id: quant-ph/0401069
title: On the Self-Interaction in Theory of Real Dirac Field
authors: Krunoslav Ljolje, Srecko Botric
comments: 9 pages, 62 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401069
abstract: Reduction of the self-interaction in the theory of real Dirac field is considered.

id: quant-ph/0401070
title: On the Quadratic Interaction Term in the Real Dirac Field Theory
authors: Krunoslav Ljolje, Srecko Botric
comments: 6 pages, 29 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401070
abstract: Effects of the quadratic interaction term in the real Dirac field theory are considered.

id: quant-ph/0401071
title: Quantum Computing in Arrays Coupled by 'Always On' Interactions
authors: S. C. Benjamin, S. Bose
comments: 16 pages (preprint format) inc. 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401071
abstract: It has recently been shown that one can perform quantum computation in a Heisenberg chain in which the interactions are 'always on', provided that one can abruptly tune the Zeeman energies of the individual (pseudo-)spins. Here we provide a more complete analysis of this scheme, including several generalizations. We generalize the interaction to an anisotropic form (incorporating the XY, or Forster, interaction as a limit), providing a proof that a chain coupled in this fashion tends to an effective Ising chain in the limit of far off-resonant spins. We derive the primitive two-qubit gate that results from exploiting abrupt Zeeman tuning with such an interaction. We also demonstrate, via numerical simulation, that the same basic scheme functions in the case of smoothly shifted Zeeman energies. We conclude with some remarks regarding generalisations to two- and three-dimensional arrays.

id: quant-ph/0401072
title: V?xj? interpretation-2003: realism of contexts
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401072
abstract: We present a new variant of the V\"axj\"o interpretation: contextualistic statistical realistic. Basic ideas of the V\"axj\"o interpretation-2001 are essentially clarified. We also discuss applications to biology, psychology, sociology, economy,...

id: quant-ph/0401073
title: A polynomial quantum query lower bound for the set equality problem
authors: Gatis Midrijanis
comments: 10 pages, improved presentation, modified proof of one lemma
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401073
abstract: The set equality problem is to tell whether two sets $A$ and $B$ are equal or disjoint under the promise that one of these is the case. This problem is related to the Graph Isomorphism problem. It was an open problem to find any $\omega(1)$ query lower bound when sets $A$ and $B$ are given by quantum oracles. We will show that any error-bounded quantum query algorithm that solves the set equality problem must evaluate oracles $\Omega(\sqrt[5]{\frac{n}{\ln n}})$ times, where $n=|A|=|B|$.

id: quant-ph/0401074
title: Dynamical parameter estimation using realistic photodetection
authors: P. Warszawski, Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042104 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401074
abstract: We investigate the effect of imperfections in realistic detectors upon the problem of quantum state and parameter estimation by continuous monitoring of an open quantum system. Specifically, we have reexamined the system of a two-level atom with an unknown Rabi frequency introduced by Gambetta and Wiseman [Phys. Rev. A 64, 042105 (2001)]. We consider only direct photodetection and use the realistic quantum trajectory theory reported by Warszawski, Wiseman, and Mabuchi [Phys. Rev. A 65, 023802 (2002)]. The most significant effect comes from a finite bandwidth, corresponding to an uncertainty in the response time of the photodiode. Unless the bandwidth is significantly greater than the Rabi frequency, the observer's ability to obtain information about the unknown Rabi frequency, and about the state of the atom, is severely compromised. This result has implications for quantum control in the presence of unknown parameters for realistic detectors, and even for ideal detectors, as it implies that most of the information in the measurement record is contained in the precise timing of the detections.

id: quant-ph/0401075
title: Simulating causal collapse models
authors: Fay Dowker, Isabelle Herbauts
comments: 18 pages, 8 fugures, LaTeX, Reference added, discussion of probability distribution of labellings corrected
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 21 (2004) 2963-2980
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401075
abstract: We present simulations of causal dynamical collapse models of field theories on a 1+1 null lattice. We use our simulations to compare and contrast two possible interpretations of the models, one in which the field values are real and the other in which the state vector is real. We suggest that a procedure of coarse graining and renormalising the fundamental field can overcome its noisiness and argue that this coarse grained renormalised field will show interesting structure if the state vector does on the coarse grained scale.

id: quant-ph/0401076
title: Quantum Networking
authors: B. Aoun, M. Tarifi
comments: 65 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401076
abstract: We first give a brief overview over quantum computing, quantum key distribution (QKD), a practical architecture that integrates (QKD) in current internet security architectures, and aspects of network security. We introduce the concept of quantum contracts inspired from game theory. Finally, we introduce the basic architecture of the quantum internet and present some protocols.

id: quant-ph/0401077
title: Some Integrable Quantum Systems on the Lattice
authors: M. Lorente
comments: Proceedings: H. D. Doebner et al. eds. Quantum theory and Symmetries (World Scientific, Singapure 2000) pp. 540-545. LaTeX, 7 pages (late submission)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401077
abstract: The Weyl relations, the harmonic oscillator, the hydrogen atom, the Dirac equation on the lattice are presented with the help of the difference equations and the orthogonal polynomials of discrete variable. This area of research is attracting more interest due to the lattice field theories and the hypothesis of a finite space.

id: quant-ph/0401078
title: N-Partner Secure Direct Communication Based on Quantum Nonlocality
authors: LV Hua, Qing-Yu Cai
comments: PACS: 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ud
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401078
abstract: A multipartner secure direct communication protocol is presented, using quantum nonlocality. Security of this protocol is based on `High fidelity implies low entropy'. When the entanglement was successfully distributed, anyone of the multipartner can send message secretly by using local operation and reliable public channel. Since message transfered only by using local operation and public channel after entanglement successfully distributed, so this protocol can protect the communication against destroying-travel-qubit-type attack.

id: quant-ph/0401079
title: Local field effects and multimode stimulated light scattering in a two-level medium
authors: Vl. K. Roerich, A. A. Panteleev, M. G. Gladush
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401079
abstract: Scattering of a short (much shorter then the spontaneous lifetime) laser pulse has been considered in a dense resonant medium subject to local field effects. The system was studied in the limit of Hartree-Fock approximation for Bogolubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon (BBGKY) hierarchy of equations for reduced density operators. A closed set of equations for atomic and field density operators was derived to describe stimulated scattering of radiation. Numerically as well as theoretically the capability of multicomponent spectrum with maximums multiple to Rabi frequency has been demonstrated. Relative line intensities in the spectrum were found in the limit of low density.

id: quant-ph/0401080
title: Improved storage of coherent and squeezed states in imperfect ring cavity
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401080
abstract: We propose a method of an improving quality of a ring cavity which is imperfect due to non-unit mirror reflectivity. The method is based on using squeezed states of light pulses illuminating the mirror and gradual homodyne detection of a radiation escaping from the cavity followed by single displacement and single squeezing operation performed on the released state. We discuss contribution of this method in process of storing unknown coherent and known squeezed state and generation of squeezing in the optical ring cavities.

id: quant-ph/0401081
title: Three and Four-Body Interactions in Spin-Based Quantum Computers
authors: Ari Mizel, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages incl. 4 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. For an expanded version including detailed calculations see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 077903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401081
abstract: In the effort to design and to construct a quantum computer, several leading proposals make use of spin-based qubits. These designs generally assume that spins undergo pairwise interactions. We point out that, when several spins are engaged mutually in pairwise interactions, the quantitative strengths of the interactions can change and qualitatively new terms can arise in the Hamiltonian, including four-body interactions. In parameter regimes of experimental interest, these coherent effects are large enough to interfere with computation, and may require new error correction or avoidance techniques.

id: quant-ph/0401082
title: Remarks on the Schrodinger equation
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: 34 pages, Latex, references and comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401082
abstract: Various origins of linear and nonlinear Schrodinger equations are discussed in connection with diffusion, hydrodynamics, and fractal structure. The treatment is mainly expository, emphasizing the quantum potential, with a few new observations.

id: quant-ph/0401083
title: The quantum query complexity of the hidden subgroup problem is polynomial
authors: Mark Ettinger, Peter Hoyer, Emanuel Knill
comments: To appear in Information Processing Letters (IPL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401083
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm which identifies with certainty a hidden subgroup of an arbitrary finite group G in only a polynomial (in log |G|) number of calls to the oracle. This is exponentially better than the best classical algorithm. However our quantum algorithm requires exponential time, as in the classical case. Our algorithm utilizes a new technique for constructing error-free algorithms for non-decision problems on quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0401084
title: Pulse-driven quantum dynamics beyond the impulsive regime
authors: D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin, H. R. Jauslin, A. Keller, O. Atabek
comments: 15 pages, 5 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 033411 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401084
abstract: We review various unitary time-dependent perturbation theories and compare them formally and numerically. We show that the Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser technique performs better owing to both the superexponential character of correction terms and the possibility to optimize the accuracy of a given level of approximation which is explored in details here. As an illustration, we consider a two-level system driven by short pulses beyond the sudden limit.

id: quant-ph/0401085
title: Time Reversal and Exceptional Points
authors: H.L.Harney, W.D.Heiss
comments: submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401085
abstract: Eigenvectors of decaying quantum systems are studied at exceptional points of the Hamiltonian. Special attention is paid to the properties of the system under time reversal symmetry breaking. At the exceptional point the chiral character of the system -- found for time reversal symmetry -- generically persists. It is, however, no longer circular but rather elliptic.

id: quant-ph/0401086
title: Gravitational self-localization in quantum measurement
authors: Tamas Geszti
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A; extends and replaces quant-ph/0204036
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 032110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401086
abstract: Within Newton-Schr\"odinger quantum mechanics which allows gravitational self-interaction, it is shown that a no-split no-collapse measurement scenario is possible. A macroscopic pointer moves at low acceleration, controlled by the Ehrenfest-averaged force acting on it. That makes classicality self-sustaining, resolves Everett's paradox, and outlines a way to spontaneous emergence of quantum randomness. Numerical estimates indicate that enhanced short-range gravitational forces are needed for the scenario to work. The scheme fails to explain quantum nonlocality, including two-detector anticorrelations, which points towards the need of a nonlocal modification of the Newton-Schr\"odinger coupling scheme.

id: quant-ph/0401087
title: Continuous vs. discrete models for the quantum harmonic oscillator and the hydrogen atom
authors: M. Lorente
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages (late submission)
journal: Phys. Lett. A. 285 (2001) 119-126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401087
abstract: The Kravchuk and Meixner polynomials of discrete variable are introduced for the discrete models of the harmonic oscillator and hydrogen atom. Starting from Rodrigues formula we construct raising and lowering operators, commutation and anticommutation relations. The physical properties of discrete models are figured out through the equivalence with the continuous models obtained by limit process.

id: quant-ph/0401088
title: Two photon absorption and coherent control with broadband down-converted light
authors: Barak Dayan, Avi Pe'er, Asher A. Friesem, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 023005 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401088
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate two-photon absorption (TPA) with broadband down-converted light (squeezed vacuum). Although incoherent and exhibiting the statistics of a thermal noise, broadband down-converted light can induce TPA with the same sharp temporal behavior as femtosecond pulses, while exhibiting the high spectral resolution of the narrowband pump laser. Using pulse-shaping methods, we coherently control TPA in Rubidium, demonstrating spectral and temporal resolutions that are 3-5 orders of magnitude below the actual bandwidth and temporal duration of the light itself. Such properties can be exploited in various applications such as spread-spectrum optical communications, tomography and nonlinear microscopy.

id: quant-ph/0401089
title: Optical conductivity of small adiabatic polarons with a long-range electron-phonon interaction
authors: B.Ya.Yavidov
comments: Submitted to J.Physics: Conden.Matter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Condensed Matter (cond-mat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401089
abstract: The hopping of an electron, interacting with many ions of a lattice via the long-range (Fr\"{o}hlich) electron-phonon interaction and optical absorption are studied at zero temperature. Ions are assumed to be isotropic three-dimensional oscillators. The optical conductivity and a renormalized mass of small adiabatic Fr\"{o}hlich polarons is calculated and compared with those of small adiabatic Holstein polarons.

id: quant-ph/0401090
title: Braiding Operators are Universal Quantum Gates
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 63 pages, LaTeX document, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401090
abstract: This paper explores of the role of unitary braiding operators in quantum computing. We show that a single specific solution R (the Bell basis change matrix) of the Yang-Baxter Equation is a universal gate for quantum computing, in the presence of local unitary transformations. We show that this same R generates a new non-trivial invariant of braids, knots, and links. Other solutions of the Yang-Baxter Equation are also shown to be universal for quantum computation. The paper discusses these results in the context of comparing quantum and topological points of view. In particular, we discuss quantum computation of link invariants, the relationship between quantum entanglement and topological entanglement, teleportation, and the structure of braiding in a topological quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0401091
title: Quantum query complexity of some graph problems
authors: Christoph Durr, Mark Heiligman, Peter Hoyer, Mehdi Mhalla
comments: 7 figures. Subsumes and replaces quant-ph/9607014, quant-ph/0303131, and quant-ph/0303169
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401091
abstract: Quantum algorithms for graph problems are considered, both in the adjacency matrix model and in an adjacency list-like array model. We give almost tight lower and upper bounds for the bounded error quantum query complexity of Connectivity, Strong Connectivity, Minimum Spanning Tree, and Single Source Shortest Paths. For example we show that the query complexity of Minimum Spanning Tree is in Theta(n^{3/2}) in the matrix model and in Theta(sqrt{nm}) in the array model, while the complexity of Connectivity is also in Theta(n^{3/2}) in the matrix model, but in Theta(n) in the array model. The upper bounds utilize search procedures for finding minima of functions under various conditions.

id: quant-ph/0401092
title: Darboux transformations of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian
authors: Boris F Samsonov, Javier Negro
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 10115-10127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401092
abstract: A detailed analysis of matrix Darboux transformations under the condition that the derivative of the superpotential be self-adjoint is given. As a onsequence, a class of the symmetries associated to Schr\"odinger matrix Hamiltonians is characterized. The applications are oriented towards the Jaynes-Cummings eigenvalue problem, so that exactly solvable $2\times 2$ matrix Hamiltonians of the Jaynes-Cummings type are obtained. It is also established that the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian is a quadratic function of a Dirac-type Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0401093
title: Darboux transformations of coherent states of the time-dependent singular oscillator
authors: Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 10273-10286
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401093
abstract: Darboux transformation of both Barut-Girardello and Perelomov coherent states for the time-dependent singular oscillator is studied. In both cases the measure that realizes the resolution of the identity operator in terms of coherent states is found and corresponding holomorphic representation is constructed. For the particular case of a free particle moving with a fixed value of the angular momentum equal to two it is shown that Barut-Giriardello coherent states are more localized at the initial time moment while the Perelomov coherent states are more stable with respect to time evolution. It is also illustrated that Darboux transformation may keep unchanged this different time behavior.

id: quant-ph/0401094
title: Dissipative Quantum Control
authors: Allan I Solomon, Sonia G Schirmer
comments: Contribution to Proceedings of \emph{ICCSUR 8} held in Puebla, Mexico, July 2003, based on talk presented by Allan Solomon (ca 8 pages, latex, 1 latex figure, 2 pdf figures converted to eps, appear to cause some trouble)
journal: In Proceedings ICCSUR 8: 8th Int'l Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty relations, ISBN 1-58949-040-1 (Rinton Press, NJ, USA, 2003), pp 393-399
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401094
abstract: Nature, in the form of dissipation, inevitably intervenes in our efforts to control a quantum system. In this talk we show that although we cannot, in general, compensate for dissipation by coherent control of the system, such effects are not always counterproductive; for example, the transformation from a thermal (mixed) state to a cold condensed (pure state) can only be achieved by non-unitary effects such as population and phase relaxation.

id: quant-ph/0401095
title: On Peres' statement "opposite momenta lead to opposite directions", decaying systems and optical imaging
authors: W. Struyve, W. De Baere, J. De Neve, S. De Weirdt
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, LaTex, to be published in Found. Phys
journal: Found. Phys. 34, 963-985 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401095
abstract: We re-examine Peres' statement ``opposite momenta lead to opposite directions''. It will be shown that Peres' statement is only valid in the large distance or large time limit. In the short distance or short time limit an additional deviation from perfect alignment occurs due to the uncertainty of the location of the source. This error contribution plays a major role in Popper's orginal experimental proposal. Peres' statement applies rather to the phenomenon of optical imaging, which was regarded by him as a verification of his statement. This is because this experiment can in a certain sense be seen as occurring in the large distance limit. We will also reconsider both experiments from the viewpoint of Bohmian mechanics. In Bohmian mechanics particles with exactly opposite momenta will move in opposite directions. In addition it will prove particularly usefull to use Bohmian mechanics because the Bohmian trajectories coincide with the conceptual trajectories drawn by Pittman et al. In this way Bohmian mechanics provides a theoretical basis for these conceptual trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0401096
title: Frames of Reference and the Intrinsic Directional Information of a Particle With Spin
authors: Daniel Collins, Sandu Popescu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401096
abstract: "Information is physical", and here we consider the physical directional information of a particle with spin. We ask whether, in the presence of a classical frame of reference, such a particle contains any intrinsic directional information, ie. information above that which can be transmitted by a classical bit. We show that when sending a large number of spins, the answer is asymptotically "no". For finite numbers of spins, N, we do not know the answer. We also show that any frame of reference which we can consider to be classical must use some resource which is exponentially large in N. This gives a quantitative meaning to the idea that classical objects are big.

id: quant-ph/0401097
title: Complex collective states in a one-dimensional two-atom system
authors: Gonzalo Ordonez, Sungyun Kim
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401097
abstract: We consider a pair of identical two-level atoms interacting with a scalar field in one dimension, separated by a distance $x_{21}$. We restrict our attention to states where one atom is excited and the other is in the ground state, in symmetric or anti-symmetric combinations. We obtain exact collective decaying states, belonging to a complex spectral representation of the Hamiltonian. The imaginary parts of the eigenvalues give the decay rates, and the real parts give the average energy of the collective states. In one dimension there is strong interference between the fields emitted by the atoms, leading to long-range cooperative effects. The decay rates and the energy oscillate with the distance $x_{21}$. Depending on $x_{21}$, the decay rates will either decrease, vanish or increase as compared with the one-atom decay rate. We have sub- and super-radiance at periodic intervals. Our model may be used to study two-cavity electron wave-guides. The vanishing of the collective decay rates then suggests the possibility of obtaining stable configurations, where an electron is trapped inside the two cavities.

id: quant-ph/0401098
title: Lorentz Group in Ray Optics
authors: S. Baskal, E. Georgieva, Y. S. Kim, M. E. Noz
comments: LaTeX 48 pages, 1 figure, review paper to be published in Journal of Optics B.(Quantum and Semi-classical Optics)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401098
abstract: It has been almost one hundred years since Einstein formulated his special theory of relativity in 1905. He showed that the basic space-time symmetry is dictated by the Lorentz group. It is shown that this group of Lorentz transformations is not only applicable to special relativity, but also constitutes the scientific language for optical sciences. It is noted that coherent and squeezed states of light are representations of the Lorentz group. The Lorentz group is also the basic underlying language for classical ray optics, including polarization optics, interferometers, the Poincare\'e sphere, one-lens optics, multi-lens optics, laser cavities, as well multilayer optics.

id: quant-ph/0401099
title: Quantum logic gates using Stark shifted Raman transitions in a cavity
authors: Asoka Biswas, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4, Text is modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062306 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401099
abstract: We present a scheme to realise the basic two-quibit logic gates such as quantum phase gate and controlle-NOT gate using a detuned optical cavity interacting with a three-level Raman system. We discuss the role of Stark shifts which are as important as the terms leading to two-photon transition. The operation of the proposed logic gates involves metastable states of the atom and hence is not affected by spontaneous emission. These ideas can be extended to produce multiparticle entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0401100
title: Measured Quantum Fourier Transform of 1024 Qubits on Fiber Optics
authors: Akihisa Tomita, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, submitted to EQIS 2003 Special issue, Int. J. Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information, vol. 2 pp.119-131 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401100
abstract: Quantum Fourier transform (QFT) is a key function to realize quantum computers. A QFT followed by measurement was demonstrated on a simple circuit based on fiber-optics. The QFT was shown to be robust against imperfections in the rotation gate. Error probability was estimated to be 0.01 per qubit, which corresponded to error-free operation on 100 qubits. The error probability can be further reduced by taking the majority of the accumulated results. The reduction of error probability resulted in a successful QFT demonstration on 1024 qubits.

id: quant-ph/0401101
title: Phase Structure of the Random-Plaquette Z_2 Gauge Model: Accuracy Threshold for a Toric Quantum Memory
authors: Takuya Ohno, Gaku Arakawa, Ikuo Ichinose, Tetsuo Matsui
comments: 24 pages, 14 figures, some clarifications
journal: Nucl.Phys. B697 (2004) 462
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401101
abstract: We study the phase structure of the random-plaquette Z_2 lattice gauge model in three dimensions. In this model, the "gauge coupling" for each plaquette is a quenched random variable that takes the value \beta with the probability 1-p and -\beta with the probability p. This model is relevant for the recently proposed quantum memory of toric code. The parameter p is the concentration of the plaquettes with "wrong-sign" couplings -\beta, and interpreted as the error probability per qubit in quantum code. In the gauge system with p=0, i.e., with the uniform gauge couplings \beta, it is known that there exists a second-order phase transition at a certain critical "temperature", T(\equiv \beta^{-1}) = T_c =1.31, which separates an ordered(Higgs) phase at T<T_c and a disordered(confinement) phase at T>T_c. As p increases, the critical temperature T_c(p) decreases. In the p-T plane, the curve T_c(p) intersects with the Nishimori line T_{N}(p) at the certain point (p_c, T_{N}(p_c)). The value p_c is just the accuracy threshold for a fault-tolerant quantum memory and associated quantum computations. By the Monte-Carlo simulations, we calculate the specific heat and the expectation values of the Wilson loop to obtain the phase-transition line T_c(p) numerically. The accuracy threshold is estimated as p_c \simeq 0.033.

id: quant-ph/0401102
title: Effective quantum spin systems with ion traps
authors: D. Porras, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 207901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401102
abstract: We show that the physical system consisting of trapped ions interacting with lasers may undergo a rich variety of quantum phase transitions. By changing the laser intensities and polarizations the dynamics of the internal states of the ions can be controlled, in such a way that an Ising or Heisenberg-like interaction is induced between effective spins. Our scheme allows us to build an analogue quantum simulator of spin systems with trapped ions, and observe and analyze quantum phase transitions with unprecedent opportunities for the measurement and manipulation of spins.

id: quant-ph/0401103
title: Strength functions, entropies and duality in weakly to strongly interacting fermionic systems
authors: D. Angom, S. Ghosh, V.K.B. Kota
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 016209 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401103
abstract: We revisit statistical wavefunction properties of finite systems of interacting fermions in the light of strength functions and their participation ratio and information entropy. For weakly interacting fermions in a mean-field with random two-body interactions of increasing strength $\lambda$, the strength functions $F_k(E)$ are well known to change, in the regime where level fluctuations follow Wigner's surmise, from Breit-Wigner to Gaussian form. We propose an ansatz for the function describing this transition which we use to investigate the participation ratio $\xi_2$ and the information entropy $S^{\rm info}$ during this crossover, thereby extending the known behavior valid in the Gaussian domain into much of the Breit-Wigner domain. Our method also allows us to derive the scaling law for the duality point $\lambda = \lambda_d$, where $F_k(E)$, $\xi_2$ and $S^{\rm info}$ in both the weak ($\lambda=0$) and strong mixing ($\lambda = \infty$) basis coincide as $\lambda_d \sim 1/\sqrt{m}$, where $m$ is the number of fermions. As an application, the ansatz function for strength functions is used in describing the Breit-Wigner to Gaussian transition seen in neutral atoms CeI to SmI with valence electrons changing from 4 to 8.

id: quant-ph/0401104
title: Poincare group operators with 4-vector position
authors: Shaun N Mosley
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401104
abstract: We present a new set of massless Poincar\'e group operators Hermitian with respect to the $ 1 / r $ inner product space, which have quasi-plane wave energy-momentum eigenfunctions having velocity $ c $ along their axis of propagation. These are constructed by means of a unitary transformation from a known set of massless Poincar\'e group operators of helicity $ s = 0, \pm {1 \over 2}, \pm 1 ... $ The position vector $ {\bf r} $ is the space part of a null 4-vector.

id: quant-ph/0401105
title: Possibilities for a Causal Interpretation for Quantum Mechanics
authors: David Delphenich
comments: 14 pages, presented at the Vigier IV conference, Paris, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401105
abstract: The basic physical problems that necessitated the emergence of quantum physics are summarized, along with the elements of wave mechanics and its traditional statistical interpretation. Alternative interpretations to the statistical one, such as the hydrodynamical and optical interpretations, nonlinear waves and nonlinear electrodynamics, and the conception of spacetime as an ordered medium are reviewed.

id: quant-ph/0401106
title: Three-spin interactions in optical lattices and criticality in cluster Hamiltonians
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 2 postscript figures, REVTEX, feasibility study and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 056402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401106
abstract: We demonstrate that in a triangular configuration of an optical lattice of two atomic species a variety of novel spin-1/2 Hamiltonians can be generated. They include effective three-spin interactions resulting from the possibility of atoms tunneling along two different paths. This motivates the study of ground state properties of various three-spin Hamiltonians in terms of their two-point and n-point correlations as well as the localizable entanglement. We present a Hamiltonian with a finite energy gap above its unique ground state for which the localizable entanglement length diverges for a wide interval of applied external fields, while at the same time the classical correlation length remains finite.

id: quant-ph/0401107
title: Suppression of Spin Projection Noise in Broadband Atomic Magnetometry
authors: J.M. Geremia, John K. Stockton, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: This manuscript has been retracted from publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401107
abstract: Our 2005 Physical Review Letter entitled "Suppression of Spin-Projection Noise in Broadband Atomic Magnetometry" (volume 94, 203002) relied heavily in its claims of experimental quantum-limited performance on the results of a prior publication from our group [1]. In subsequent work we have determined that the results of [1] were incorrect and must therefore retract this Physical Review Letter as well. The authors would like to emphasize that the broadband magnetometry approach taken in our work remains valid, as described in the theoretical paper [2], but we have lost confidence in the calibration procedures employed at the time to establish sensitivity relative to the spin-projection noise level. [1] JM Geremia, John K. Stockton and Hideo Mabuchi, "Real-Time Quantum Feedback Control of Atomic Spin-Squeezing," Science 304, 270, (2004). [2] John K. Stockton, JM Geremia, Andrew C. Doherty and Hideo Mabuchi, "Robust quantum parameter estimation: Coherent magnetometry with feedback," Phys. Rev. A 69, 032109, (2004).

id: quant-ph/0401108
title: Linear Positivity and Virtual Probability
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, revtex 4, minor correction
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 70, 02210 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401108
abstract: We investigate the quantum theory of closed systems based on the linear positivity decoherence condition of Goldstein and Page. A quantum theory of closed systems requires two elements; 1) a condition specifying which sets of histories may be assigned probabilities that are consistent with the rules of probability theory, and 2) a rule for those probabilities. The linear positivity condition of Goldstein and Page is the weakest of the general conditions proposed so far. Its general properties relating to exact probability sum rules, time-neutrality, and conservation laws are explored. Its inconsistency with the usual notion of independent subsystems in quantum mechanics is reviewed. Its relation to the stronger condition of medium decoherence necessary for classicality is discussed. The linear positivity of histories in a number of simple model systems is investigated with the aim of exhibiting linearly positive sets of histories that are not decoherent. The utility of extending the notion of probability to include values outside the range of 0 to 1 is described. Alternatives with such virtual probabilities cannot be measured or recorded, but can be used in the intermediate steps of calculating real probabilities. Virtual probabilities give a simple and general way of formulating quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0401109
title: One-Photon and Two-Photon Double-Slit Interferences in Spontaneous and Stimulated Parametric Down-Conversions
authors: De-Zhong Cao, Zhuan Li, Yan-Hua Zhai, Kaige Wang
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401109
abstract: We theoretically discuss one-photon and two-photon double-slit interferences for spontaneous and stimulated parametric down-conversions. We show that the two-photon sub-wavelength interference can exist in a general spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) for both type I and type II crystals. We propose an alternative way to observe sub-wavelength interference by a joint-intensity measurement which occurs for only type I crystal in a higher gain of SPDC. When a signal beam injects into the crystal, it may create two interference patterns by two stimulated down-converted beams, showing no sub-wavelength interference effect.

id: quant-ph/0401110
title: A stochastic limit approach to the SAT problem
authors: Luigi Accardi, Masanori Ohya
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401110
abstract: We propose a new approach to solve an NP complete problem by means of stochastic limit.

id: quant-ph/0401111
title: Steady state of atoms in a resonant field with elliptical polarization
authors: A.V. Taichenachev, A.M. Tumaikin, V.I. Yudin, G. Nienhuis
comments: revtex, 26 pages, including 3 eps figures; PRA accepted for publication;v2 three typos are fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401111
abstract: We present a complete set of analytical and invariant expressions for the steady-state density matrix of atoms in a resonant radiation field with arbitrary intensity and polarization. The field drives the closed dipole transition with arbitrary values of the angular momenta $J_{g}$ and $J_{e}$ of the ground and excited state. The steady-state density matrix is expressed in terms of spherical harmonics of a complex direction given by the field polarization vector. The generalization to the case of broad-band radiation is given. We indicate various applications of these results.

id: quant-ph/0401112
title: Proposed direct test of a certain type of noncontextuality in quantum mechanics
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 9 pages 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 040102(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401112
abstract: The noncontextuality of quantum mechanics can be directly tested by measuring two entangled particles with more than two outcomes per particle. The two associated contexts are "interlinked" by common observables.

id: quant-ph/0401113
title: Noncontextuality in multipartite entanglement
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 5781-5798 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401113
abstract: We discuss several multiport interferometric preparation and measurement configurations and show that they are noncontextual. Generalizations to the n particle case are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401114
title: Instrumental processes, entropies, information in quantum continual measurements
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: 15 pages, requires Rinton-P9x6.cls. For the volume on the occasion of Alexander Holevo's 60th birthday
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 4 (2004) 437-449
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401114
abstract: In this paper we will give a short presentation of the quantum Levy-Khinchin formula and of the formulation of quantum continual measurements based on stochastic differential equations, matters which we had the pleasure to work on in collaboration with Prof. Holevo. Then we will begin the study of various entropies and relative entropies, which seem to be promising quantities for measuring the information content of the continual measurement under consideration and for analysing its asymptotic behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0401115
title: Quantum effects in the evolution of vortices in the electromagnetic field
authors: Tomasz Radozycki
comments: REVTEX4 and 5 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401115
abstract: We analyze the influence of electron-positron pairs creation on the motion of vortex lines in electromagnetic field. In our approach the electric and magnetic fields satisfy nonlinear equations derived from the Euler-Heisenberg effective Lagrangian. We show that these nonlinearities may change the evolution of vortices.

id: quant-ph/0401116
title: Long Range Interactions in Quantum Many Body Problem in One-Dimension:Ground State
authors: Saugata Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401116
abstract: We investigate the ground state properties of a family of $N$-body systems in 1-dimension, trapped in a polynomial potential and having long range 2-body interaction in addition to the inverse square potential studied in the Calogero-Sutherland model (CSM). We show that for such a Hamiltonian, the ground state energy is similar to that of free fermions in a harmonic well with a displacement that depends on the number of particles and depth of the well. We obtain the ground state wave function and using random matrix results, study the particle density and pair correlation function (PCF). We observe that the particles are arranged in bands. Due to the presence of long range interaction, the PCF shows a departure from the CSM.

id: quant-ph/0401117
title: Towards the understanding of Decoherence on Ion Traps
authors: M.O. Terra Cunha, M.C. Nemes
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys Lett A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 329, 409-413 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401117
abstract: Two mechanisms of decoherence in ion traps are studied, specially related to the experiment [Kielpinski et al., Science 291 (2001) 1013]. Statistical hypothesis are made about the unknown variables and the expected behaviour of the visibility of the best experimental pattern is calculated for each mechanism. Data from the experiment are analyzed and show to be insufficient to distinguish between them. We suggest improvements which can do this with slight modifications in the present facilities.

id: quant-ph/0401118
title: Simplifying Schmidt number witnesses via higher-dimensional embeddings
authors: Florian Hulpke, Dagmar Bruss, Maciej Lewenstein, Anna Sanpera
comments: 
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 4, 207 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401118
abstract: We apply the generalised concept of witness operators to arbitrary convex sets, and review the criteria for the optimisation of these general witnesses. We then define an embedding of state vectors and operators into a higher-dimensional Hilbert space. This embedding leads to a connection between any Schmidt number witness in the original Hilbert space and a witness for Schmidt number two (i.e. the most general entanglement witness) in the appropriate enlarged Hilbert space. Using this relation we arrive at a conceptually simple method for the construction of Schmidt number witnesses in bipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0401119
title: On duality between quantum maps and quantum states
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 25 pages in revtex with 9 figures included
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 11, 3-42 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401119
abstract: We investigate the space of quantum operations, as well as the larger space of maps which are positive, but not completely positive. A constructive criterion for decomposability is presented. A certain class of unistochastic operations, determined by unitary matrices of extended dimensionality, is defined and analyzed. Using the concept of the dynamical matrix and the Jamiolkowski isomorphism we explore the relation between the set of quantum operations (dynamics) and the set of density matrices acting on an extended Hilbert space (kinematics). An analogous relation is established between the classical maps and an extended space of the discrete probability distributions.

id: quant-ph/0401120
title: Are N=1 and N=2 supersymmetric quantum mechanics equivalent?
authors: M. Combescure, F. Gieres, M. Kibler
comments: 15 pages
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401120
abstract: After recalling different formulations of the definition of supersymmetric quantum mechanics given in the literature, we discuss the relationships between them in order to provide an answer to the question raised in the title.

id: quant-ph/0401121
title: Quantum entanglement, interaction, and the classical limit
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401121
abstract: Two or more quantum systems are said to be in an entangled or non-factorisable state if their joint (supposedly pure) wave-function is not expressible as a product of individual wave functions but is instead a superposition of product states. It is only when the systems are in a factorisable state that they can be considered to be separated (in the sense of Bell). We show that whenever two quantum systems interact with each other, it is impossible that all factorisable states remain factorisable during the interaction unless the full Hamiltonian does not couple these systems so to say unless they do not really interact. We also present certain conditions under which particular factorisable states remain factorisable although they represent a bipartite system whose components mutually interact. We identify certain quasi-classical regimes that satisfy these conditions and show that they correspond to classical, pre-quantum, paradigms associated to the concept of particle.

id: quant-ph/0401122
title: Hardy's nonlocality for generalized n-particle GHZ states
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 8 pages, 2 eps figures; journal version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 327 (2004) 433
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401122
abstract: In this paper we extend Hardy's nonlocality proof for two spin-1/2 particles [PRL 71 (1993) 1665] to the case of n spin-1/2 particles configured in the generalized GHZ state. We show that, for all n \geq 3, any entangled GHZ state violates the Bell inequality associated with the Hardy experiment. This feature is important since it has been shown [PRL 88 (2002) 210402] that, for all n odd, there are entangled GHZ states that do not violate any standard n-particle correlation Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0401123
title: Introduction to Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: B. Aoun, M. Tarifi
comments: 46 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401123
abstract: We provide an introduction to Quantum Cellular Automata.

id: quant-ph/0401124
title: Quantum Artificial Intelligence
authors: B. Aoun, M. Tarifi
comments: This paper is withdrawn because it was incomplete at the time of posting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401124
abstract: This report introduces researchers in AI to some of the concepts in quantum heurisitics and quantum AI.

id: quant-ph/0401125
title: A two species trap for chromium and rubidium atoms
authors: Sven Hensler, Axel Griesmaier, J?rg Werner, Axel G?rlitz, Tilman Pfau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401125
abstract: We realize a combined trap for bosonic chromium 52Cr and rubidium 87Rb atoms. First experiments focus on exploring a suitable loading scheme for the combined trap and on studies of new trap loss mechanisms originating from simultaneous trapping of two species. By comparing the trap loss from the 87Rb magneto-optical trap (MOT) in absence and presence of magnetically trapped ground state 52Cr atoms we determine the scattering cross section of sigma_{inelRbCr}=(5.0+-4.0)*10^{-18}m^2 for light induced inelastic collisions between the two species. Studying the trap loss from the Rb magneto-optical trap induced by the Cr cooling-laser light, the photoionization cross section of the excited 5P_{3/2} state at an ionizing wavelength of 426nm is measured to be sigma_{p}=(1.1+-0.3)*10^{-21}m^2.

id: quant-ph/0401126
title: One-parameter groups and combinatorial physics
authors: Gerard Duchamp, Karol A. Penson, Allan I. Solomon, Andrej Horzela, Pawel Blasiak
comments: 15 pages, 23 references. Presented at the Third International Workshop on Contemporary Problems in Mathematical Physics (COPROMAPH3), Porto-Novo (Benin), November 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401126
abstract: In this communication, we consider the normal ordering of sums of elements of the form (a*^r a a*^s), where a* and a are boson creation and annihilation operators. We discuss the integration of the associated one-parameter groups and their combinatorial by-products. In particular, we show how these groups can be realized as groups of substitutions with prefunctions.

id: quant-ph/0401127
title: Quantum computing in neural networks
authors: P. Gralewicz
comments: Minor changes, improved discussion, added references, 10 pages, 4 eps figures, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401127
abstract: According to the statistical interpretation of quantum theory, quantum computers form a distinguished class of probabilistic machines (PMs) by encoding n qubits in 2n pbits (random binary variables). This raises the possibility of a large-scale quantum computing using PMs, especially with neural networks which have the innate capability for probabilistic information processing. Restricting ourselves to a particular model, we construct and numerically examine the performance of neural circuits implementing universal quantum gates. A discussion on the physiological plausibility of proposed coding scheme is also provided.

id: quant-ph/0401128
title: Entanglement criterion for pure $M\otimes N$ bipartite quantum states
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 6 pages
journal: Opt. Spectrosc. 99(3) (2005) 370-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401128
abstract: We propose a entanglement measure for pure $M \otimes N$ bipartite quantum states. We obtain the measure by generalizing the equivalent measure for a $2 \otimes 2$ system, via a $2 \otimes 3$ system, to the general bipartite case. The measure emphasizes the role Bell states have, both for forming the measure, and for experimentally measuring the entanglement. The form of the measure is similar to generalized concurrence. In the case of $2 \otimes 3$ systems, we prove that our measure, that is directly measurable, equals the concurrence. It is also shown that in order to measure the entanglement, it is sufficient to measure the projections of the state onto a maximum of $M(M-1)N(N-1)/2$ Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0401129
title: Entanglement measure for general pure multipartite quantum states
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, pp 9251-9260, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401129
abstract: We propose an explicit formula for an entanglement measure of pure multipartite quantum states, then study a general pure tripartite state in detail, and at end we give some simple but illustrative examples on four-qubits and m-qubits states.

id: quant-ph/0401130
title: Stability of atomic clocks based on entangled atoms
authors: A. Andre, A. S. Sorensen, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 230801 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401130
abstract: We analyze the effect of realistic noise sources for an atomic clock consisting of a local oscillator that is actively locked to a spin-squeezed (entangled) ensemble of $N$ atoms. We show that the use of entangled states can lead to an improvement of the long-term stability of the clock when the measurement is limited by decoherence associated with instability of the local oscillator combined with fluctuations in the atomic ensemble's Bloch vector. Atomic states with a moderate degree of entanglement yield the maximal clock stability, resulting in an improvement that scales as $N^{1/6}$ compared to the atomic shot noise level.

id: quant-ph/0401131
title: Probability representation entropy for spin-state tomogram
authors: O. V. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 8 pages, accepted by J. Russ. Laser Res
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401131
abstract: Probability representation entropy (tomographic entropy) of arbitrary quantum state is introduced. Using the properties of spin tomogram to be standard probability distribution function the tomographic entropy notion is discussed. Relation of the tomographic entropy to Shannon entropy and von Neumann entropy is elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0401132
title: A simple necessary decoherence condition for a set of histories
authors: Artur Scherer, Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 11 pages,LaTex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 326, 307 (2004); with minor changes.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401132
abstract: Within the decoherent histories formulation of quantum mechanics, we investigate necessary conditions for decoherence of arbitrarily long histories. We prove that fine-grained histories of arbitrary length decohere for all classical initial states if and only if the unitary evolution preserves classicality of states (using a natural formal definition of classicality). We give a counterexample showing that this equivalence does not hold for coarse-grained histories.

id: quant-ph/0401133
title: Quantum Logic Operations Using Single Photons and the Zeno Effect
authors: J.D. Franson, B.C. Jacobs, T.B. Pittman
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062302 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401133
abstract: We show that the quantum Zeno effect can be used to implement several quantum logic gates for photonic qubits, including a gate that is similar to the square-root of SWAP operation. The operation of these devices depends on the fact that photons can behave as if they were non-interacting fermions instead of bosons in the presence of a strong Zeno effect. These results are discussed within the context of several no-go theorems for non-interacting fermions or bosons.

id: quant-ph/0401134
title: Quantum convolutional codes: fundamentals
authors: H. Ollivier, J.-P. Tillich
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401134
abstract: We describe the theory of quantum convolutional error correcting codes. These codes are aimed at protecting a flow of quantum information over long distance communication. They are largely inspired by their classical analogs which are used in similar circumstances in classical communication. In this article, we provide an efficient polynomial formalism for describing their stabilizer group, derive an on-line encoding circuit with linear gate complexity and study error propagation together with the existence of on-line decoding. Finally, we provide a maximum likelihood error estimation algorithm with linear classical complexity for any memoryless channel.

id: quant-ph/0401135
title: Algorithmic Cooling of Spins: A Practicable Method for Increasing Polarization
authors: Jose M. Fernandez, Seth Lloyd, Tal Mor, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 24 pages (with annexes), 3 figures (PS). This version contains no major content changes: fixed bibliography & figures, modified acknowledgements
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, v2, n4, pp 461-467, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401135
abstract: An efficient technique to generate ensembles of spins that are highly polarized by external magnetic fields is the Holy Grail in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Since spin-half nuclei have steady-state polarization biases that increase inversely with temperature, spins exhibiting high polarization biases are considered cool, even when their environment is warm. Existing spin-cooling techniques are highly limited in their efficiency and usefulness. Algorithmic cooling is a promising new spin-cooling approach that employs data compression methods in open systems. It reduces the entropy of spins on long molecules to a point far beyond Shannon's bound on reversible entropy manipulations (an information-theoretic version of the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics), thus increasing their polarization. Here we present an efficient and experimentally feasible algorithmic cooling technique that cools spins to very low temperatures even on short molecules. This practicable algorithmic cooling could lead to breakthroughs in high-sensitivity NMR spectroscopy in the near future, and to the development of scalable NMR quantum computers in the far future. Moreover, while the cooling algorithm itself is classical, it uses quantum gates in its implementation, thus representing the first short-term application of quantum computing devices.

id: quant-ph/0401136
title: Quantum-"classical" correspondence in a nonadiabatic-transition system
authors: Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. E (Brief Reports)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 69 (2004) 037201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401136
abstract: A nonadiabatic-transition system which exhibits ``quantum chaotic'' behavior [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 63}, 066221 (2001)] is investigated from quasi-classical aspects. Since such a system does not have a naive classical limit, we take the mapping approach by Stock and Thoss [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 78}, 578 (1997)] to represent the quasi-classical dynamics of the system. We numerically show that there is a sound correspondence between the quantum chaos and classical chaos for the system.

id: quant-ph/0401137
title: Fast simulation of a quantum phase transition in an ion-trap realisable unitary map
authors: J.P. Barjaktarevic, G.J. Milburn, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012335 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401137
abstract: We demonstrate a method of exploring the quantum critical point of the Ising universality class using unitary maps that have recently been demonstrated in ion trap quantum gates. We reverse the idea with which Feynman conceived quantum computing, and ask whether a realisable simulation corresponds to a physical system. We proceed to show that a specific simulation (a unitary map) is physically equivalent to a Hamiltonian that belongs to the same universality class as the transverse Ising Hamiltonian. We present experimental signatures, and numerical simulation for these in the six-qubit case.

id: quant-ph/0401138
title: Violation of the Nernst heat theorem in the theory of thermal Casimir force between Drude metals
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.69, N2, p.022119-(1-9), 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401138
abstract: We give a rigorous analytical derivation of low-temperature behavior of the Casimir entropy in the framework of the Lifshitz formula combined with the Drude dielectric function. An earlier result that the Casimir entropy at zero temperature is not equal to zero and depends on the parameters of the system is confirmed, i.e. the third law of thermodynamics (the Nernst heat theorem) is violated. We illustrate the resolution of this thermodynamical puzzle in the context of the surface impedance approach by several calculations of the thermal Casimir force and entropy for both real metals and dielectrics. Different representations for the impedances, which are equivalent for real photons, are discussed. Finally, we argue in favor of the Leontovich boundary condition which leads to results for the thermal Casimir force that are consistent with thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0401139
title: Finite Supersymmetry Transformations
authors: Nevena Ilieva, Heide Narnhofer, Walter Thirring
comments: 19 pages LaTeX, 2 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C35:119-127,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401139
abstract: We investigate simple examples of supersymmetry algebras with real and Grassmann parameters. Special attention is payed to the finite supertransformations and their probability interpretation. Furthermore we look for combinations of bosons and fermions which are invariant under supertransformations. These combinations correspond to states that are highly entangled.

id: quant-ph/0401140
title: Nanosecond Dynamics of Single-Molecule Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer
authors: G.O. Ariunbold, G.S. Agarwal, Z. Wang, H. Walther, M.O. Scully
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. accepted to J.Phys.Chem.B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401140
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments on photon statistics from individual dye pairs planted on biomolecules and coupled by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), we show here that the FRET dynamics can be modelled by Gaussian random processes with colored noise. Using Monte-Carlo numerical simulations, the photon intensity correlations from the FRET pairs are calculated, and are turned out to be very close to those observed in experiment. The proposed stochastic description of FRET is consistent with existing theories for microscopic dynamics of the biomolecule that carries the FRET coupled dye pairs.

id: quant-ph/0401141
title: Nonclassical Imaging for a quantum search of trapped ions
authors: G.S. Agarwal, G.O. Ariunbold, J. von Zanthier, H. Walther
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401141
abstract: We discuss a simple search problem which can be pursued with different methods, either on a classical or on a quantum basis. The system is represented by a chain of trapped ions. The ion to be searched is a member of that chain, consists, however, of an isotopic species different to the others. It is shown that the classical imaging may lead as fast to the final result as the quantum imaging. However, for the discussed case the quantum method gives more flexibility and higher precision when the number of ions considered in the chain is increasing. In addition, interferences are observable even when the distances between the ions is smaller than half a wavelength of the incident light.

id: quant-ph/0401142
title: Quantum freeze of fidelity decay for chaotic dynamics
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 4 pages, 3 ps figures ; v2 corrected mistake in formula for t_2
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 94, 044101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401142
abstract: We show that the mechanism of quantum freeze of fidelity decay for perturbations with zero time-average, recently discovered for a specific case of integrable dynamics [New J. Phys. 5 (2003) 109], can be generalized to arbitrary quantum dynamics. We work out explicitly the case of chaotic classical counterpart, for which we find semi-classical expressions for the value and the range of the plateau of fidelity. After the plateau ends, we find explicit expressions for the asymptotic decay, which can be exponential or Gaussian depending on the ratio of the Heisenberg time to the decay time. Arbitrary initial states can be considered, e.g. we discuss coherent states and random states.

id: quant-ph/0401143
title: Non-symmetric entanglement of atomic ensembles
authors: A. Kuzmich, T.A.B. Kennedy
comments: to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 030407 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401143
abstract: The entanglement of multi-atom quantum states is considered. In order to cancel noise due to inhomogeneous light atom coupling, the concept of matched multi-atom observables is proposed. As a means to eliminate an important form of decoherence this idea should be of broad relevance for quantum information processing with atomic ensembles. The general approach is illustrated on the example of rotation angle measurement, and it is shown that the multi-atom states that were thought to be only weakly entangled can exhibit near-maximum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0401144
title: Quantum Phase Transitions in Anti-ferromagnetic Planar Cubic Lattices
authors: Cameron Wellard, Roman Orus
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures, final version (accepted for publication in PRA)
journal: Physical Review A 70, 062318 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401144
abstract: Motivated by its relation to an $\cal{NP}$-hard problem, we analyze the ground state properties of anti-ferromagnetic Ising-spin networks embedded on planar cubic lattices, under the action of homogeneous transverse and longitudinal magnetic fields. This model exhibits a quantum phase transition at critical values of the magnetic field, which can be identified by the entanglement behavior, as well as by a Majorization analysis. The scaling of the entanglement in the critical region is in agreement with the area law, indicating that even simple systems can support large amounts of quantum correlations. We study the scaling behavior of low-lying energy gaps for a restricted set of geometries, and find that even in this simplified case, it is impossible to predict the asymptotic behavior, with the data allowing equally good fits to exponential and power law decays. We can therefore, draw no conclusion as to the algorithmic complexity of a quantum adiabatic ground-state search for the system.

id: quant-ph/0401145
title: Survival law in a potential model
authors: S. De Leo, P. Rotelli
comments: 16 pages, 2 tables, 3 figures, AMS-TeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A (2004) 022101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401145
abstract: The radial equation of a simple potential model has long been known to yield an exponential decay law in lowest order (Breit-Wigner) approximation. We demonstrate that if the calculation is extended to fourth order the decay law exhibits the quantum Zeno effect. This model has further been studied numerically to characterize the extra exponential time parameter which compliments the lifetime. We also investigate the inverse Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0401146
title: Quantum dynamical semigroups and non-decomposable positive maps
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, M. Piani
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401146
abstract: We study dynamical semigroups of positive, but not completely positive maps on finite-dimensional bipartite systems and analyze properties of their generators in relation to non-decomposability and bound-entanglement. An example of non-decomposable semigroup leading to a 4x4-dimensional bound-entangled density matrix is explicitly obtained.

id: quant-ph/0401147
title: Single-Photon Generation from Stored Excitation in an Atomic Ensemble
authors: C. W. Chou, S. V. Polyakov, A. Kuzmich, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401147
abstract: Single photons are generated from an ensemble of cold Cs atoms via the protocol of Duan et al. [Nature \textbf{414}, 413 (2001)]. Conditioned upon an initial detection from field 1 at 852 nm, a photon in field 2 at 894 nm is produced in a controlled fashion from excitation stored within the atomic ensemble. The single-quantum character of the field 2 is demonstrated by the violation of a Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, namely $w(1_{2},1_{2}|1_{1})=0.24\pm 0.05\ngeq 1$, where $w(1_{2},1_{2}|1_{1})$ describes detection of two events $(1_{2},1_{2})$ conditioned upon an initial detection $1_{1}$, with $w\to 0$ for single photons.

id: quant-ph/0401148
title: Violation of local realism in a high-dimensional two-photon setup with non-integer spiral phase plates
authors: S. S. R. Oemrawsingh, A. Aiello, E. R. Eliel, G. Nienhuis, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures * Fourth author provided analytical solution instead of the previously numerically solved problem. The Klyshko model is no longer used. * Typo in equation 16 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401148
abstract: We propose a novel setup to investigate the quantum non-locality of orbital angular momentum states living in a high-dimensional Hilbert space. We incorporate non-integer spiral phase plates in spatial analyzers, enabling us to use only two detectors. The resulting setup is somewhat reminiscent of that used to measure polarization entanglement. However, the two-photon states that are produced, are not confined to a 2X2-dimensional Hilbert space, and the setup allows the probing of correlations in a high-dimensional space. For the special case of half-integer spiral phase plates, we predict a violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt version of the Bell inequality (S<=2), that is even stronger than achievable for two qubits (S=2*(2^1/2)), namely S=16/5

id: quant-ph/0401149
title: Classical phase-space descriptions of continuous-variable teleportation
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
comments: New version contains minor changes requested by journal referees
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401149
abstract: The nonnegative Wigner function of all quantum states involved in teleportation of Gaussian states using the standard continuous-variable teleportation protocol means that there is a local realistic phase-space description of the process. This includes the coherent states teleported up to now in experiments. We extend the phase-space description to teleportation of non-Gaussian states using the standard protocol and conclude that teleportation of non-Gaussian states with fidelity of 2/3 is a "gold standard" for this kind of teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0401150
title: Supersymmetry in quantum mechanics: An extended view
authors: A.R.P.Rau
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10421
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401150
abstract: The concept of supersymmetry in a quantum mechanical system is extended, permitting the recognition of many more supersymmetric systems, including very familiar ones such as the free particle. Its spectrum is shown to be supersymmetric, with space-time symmetries used for the explicit construction. No fermionic or Grassmann variables need to be invoked. Our construction extends supersymmetry to continuous spectra. Most notably, while the free particle in one dimension has generally been regarded as having a doubly degenerate continuum throughout, the construction clarifies taht there is a single zero energy state at the base of the spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0401151
title: Luttinger liquid of polarons in one-dimensional boson-fermion mixtures
authors: L. Mathey, D.-W. Wang, W. Hofstetter, M. D. Lukin, Eugene Demler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 120404 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401151
abstract: We use bosonization approach to investigate quantum phases in mixtures of bosonic and fermionic atoms confined in one dimensional optical lattices. The phase diagrams can be well understood in terms of polarons, which correspond to atoms that are "dressed" by screening clouds of the other atom species. For a mixture of single species of fermionic and bosonic atoms we find a charge density wave phase, a phase with fermion pairing, and a regime of phase separation. For a mixture of two species of fermionic atoms and one species of bosonic atoms we obtain spin and charge density wave phases, a Wigner crystal phase, singlet and triplet paired states of fermions, and a phase separation regime. Equivalence between the Luttinger liquid description of polarons and the canonical polaron transformation is established and the techniques to detect the resulting quantum phases are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401152
title: Mechanism and Lineshapes of Sub-Fourier Resonances
authors: Hans Lignier, Jean Claude Garreau, Pascal Szriftgiser, Dominique Delande
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401152
abstract: Subtle internal interference effects allow quantum-chaotic systems to display "sub-Fourier" resonances, i.e. to distinguish two neighboring driving frequencies in a time shorter than the inverse of the difference of the two frequencies. We report experiments on the atomic version of the kicked rotor showing the unusual properties of the sub-Fourier resonances, and develop a theoretical approach (based on the Floquet theorem) explaining these properties, and correctly predicting the widths and lineshapes.

id: quant-ph/0401153
title: Theory confronts experiment in the Casimir force measurements: quantification of errors and precision
authors: F. Chen, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.69, N2, p.022117-(1-11), 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401153
abstract: We compare theory and experiment in the Casimir force measurement between gold surfaces performed with the atomic force microscope. Both random and systematic experimental errors are found leading to a total absolute error equal to 8.5 pN at 95% confidence. In terms of the relative errors, experimental precision of 1.75% is obtained at the shortest separation of 62 nm at 95% confidence level (at 60% confidence the experimental precision of 1% is confirmed at the shortest separation). An independent determination of the accuracy of the theoretical calculations of the Casimir force and its application to the experimental configuration is carefully made. Special attention is paid to the sample-dependent variations of the optical tabulated data due to the presence of grains, contribution of surface plasmons, and errors introduced by the use of the proximity force theorem. Nonmultiplicative and diffraction-type contributions to the surface roughness corrections are examined. The electric forces due to patch potentials resulting from the polycrystalline nature of the gold films are estimated. The finite size and thermal effects are found to be negligible. The theoretical accuracy of about 1.69% and 1.1% are found at a separation 62 nm and 200 nm, respectively. Within the limits of experimental and theoretical errors very good agreement between experiment and theory is confirmed characterized by the root mean square deviation of about 3.5 pN within all measurement range. The conclusion is made that the Casimir force is stable relative to variations of the sample-dependent optical and electric properties, which opens new opportunities to use the Casimir effect for diagnostic purposes.

id: quant-ph/0401154
title: Optimal Database Search: Waves and Catalysis
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 4 pages (v2) 6 pages, RevTeX4. Title changed. Substantially expanded to include stability considerations, quantum domain analysis, application to catalysis. (v3) Version accepted for publication. (v4) Error in Eqs.(10,11) corrected by replacing \omega by \omega^2. No change in implementation and application
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 4 (2006) 815-825; Erratum 5 (2007) 437
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401154
abstract: Grover's database search algorithm, although discovered in the context of quantum computation, can be implemented using any system that allows superposition of states. A physical realization of this algorithm is described using coupled simple harmonic oscillators, which can be exactly solved in both classical and quantum domains. Classical wave algorithms are far more stable against decoherence compared to their quantum counterparts. In addition to providing convenient demonstration models, they may have a role in practical situations, such as catalysis.

id: quant-ph/0401155
title: Discrete phase space based on finite fields
authors: Kathleen S. Gibbons, Matthew J. Hoffman, William K. Wootters
comments: 60 pages; minor corrections and additional references in v2 and v3; improved historical introduction in v4; references to quantum error correction in v5; v6 corrects the value quoted for the number of similarity classes for N=5
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401155
abstract: The original Wigner function provides a way of representing in phase space the quantum states of systems with continuous degrees of freedom. Wigner functions have also been developed for discrete quantum systems, one popular version being defined on a 2N x 2N discrete phase space for a system with N orthogonal states. Here we investigate an alternative class of discrete Wigner functions, in which the field of real numbers that labels the axes of continuous phase space is replaced by a finite field having N elements. There exists such a field if and only if N is a power of a prime; so our formulation can be applied directly only to systems for which the state-space dimension takes such a value. Though this condition may seem limiting, we note that any quantum computer based on qubits meets the condition and can thus be accommodated within our scheme. The geometry of our N x N phase space also leads naturally to a method of constructing a complete set of N+1 mutually unbiased bases for the state space.

id: quant-ph/0401156
title: Entanglement bases and general structures of orthogonal complete bases
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 5 pages,no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70(2004)044302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401156
abstract: In quantum mechanics and quantum information, to establish the orthogonal bases is a useful means. The existence of unextendible product bases impels us to study the `entanglement bases' problems. In this paper, the concepts of entanglement bases and exact-entanglement bases are defined, and a theorem about exact-entanglement bases is given. We discuss the general structures of the orthogonal complete bases. Two examples of applications are given. At last, we discuss the problem of transformation of the general structure forms.

id: quant-ph/0401157
title: Readout scheme of the fullerene-based quantum computer by a single electron transistor
authors: M. Feng, J. Twamley
comments: RevTex, 1 table and two figures. Latest version
journal: Physical Review A 70, 030303(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401157
abstract: The readout of the quantum spin state is a challenge for any spin-based quantum computing implementation. We propose a scheme, based on the achieved technique of single electron transistor (SET), to implement the readout of electronic spin state inside a doped $C_{60}$ fullerene by means of the magnetic dipole-dipole coupling and spin filters. In the presence of an external magnetic field, we show how to perform the spin state detection by transforming the information contained in the spin state into the tunneling current. The robustness of our scheme against sources of error is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0401158
title: Quantum decoherence in the rotation of small molecules
authors: A. Adelswaerd, S. Wallentowitz
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, to appear in Journal of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401158
abstract: The dynamics of non-polar diatomic molecules interacting with a far-detuned narrow-band laser field, that only may drive rotational transitions, is studied. The rotation of the molecule is considered both classically and quantum mechanically, providing links to features known from the heavy symmetric top. In particular, quantum decoherence in the molecular rotation, being induced by spontaneous Raman processes, is addressed. It is shown how this decoherence modifies the rotational dynamics in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0401159
title: "Superluminal" tunnelling, quantum measurements and the speed of information transfer
authors: D.Sokolovski, A.Z.Msezane, V.R.Shaginyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401159
abstract: We exploit the analogy between tunnelling across a potential barrier and Aharonov's weak measurements to resolve the long standing paradox between the impossibility to exceed the speed of light and the seemingly 'superluminal' behaviur of the tunnelling particle in the barrier. We demonstrate that 'superluminality' occurs when the value of the duration $\tau$ spent in the barrier is uncertain, whereas when $\tau$ is known accurately, no 'superluminal' behaviur is observed. In all cases only subluminal durations contribute to the transmission, which precludes faster-than-light information transfer, as shown by a recent experiment.

id: quant-ph/0401160
title: Non-Linear Canonical Transformations in Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alastair Brodlie
comments: The paper has been improved in light of a referee's report. The paper will appear in the Journal of Mathematical Physics. 24 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401160
abstract: $p$-Mechanics is a consistent physical theory which describes both classical and quantum mechanics simultaneously through the representation theory of the Heisenberg group. In this paper we describe how non-linear canonical transformations affect $p$-mechanical observables and states. Using this we show how canonical transformations change a quantum mechanical system. We seek an operator on the set of $p$-mechanical observables which corresponds to the classical canonical transformation. In order to do this we derive a set of integral equations which when solved will give us the coherent state expansion of this operator. The motivation for these integral equations comes from the work of Moshinsky and a variety of collaborators. We consider a number of examples and discuss the use of these equations for non-bijective transformations.

id: quant-ph/0401161
title: Observation of Robust Quantum Resonance Peaks in an Atom Optics Kicked Rotor with Amplitude Noise
authors: Mark Sadgrove, Andrew Hilliard, Terry Mullins, Scott Parkins, Rainer Leonhardt
comments: 9 pages, four figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401161
abstract: The effect of pulse train noise on the quantum resonance peaks of the Atom Optics Kicked Rotor is investigated experimentally. Quantum resonance peaks in the late time mean energy of the atoms are found to be surprisingly robust against all levels of noise applied to the kicking amplitude, whilst even small levels of noise on the kicking period lead to their destruction. The robustness to amplitude noise of the resonance peak and of the fall--off in mean energy to either side of this peak are explained in terms of the occurence of stable, $\epsilon$--classical dynamics [S. Wimberger, I. Guarneri, and S. Fishman, \textit{Nonlin.} \textbf{16}, 1381 (2003)] around each quantum resonance.

id: quant-ph/0401162
title: Quantum Circuits for Incompletely Specified Two-Qubit Operators
authors: Vivek V. Shende, Igor L. Markov
comments: 15 pages
journal: V. V. Shende and I. L. Markov, Quantum Circuits For Incompletely Specified Two-Qubit Operators, Quantum Information & Computation 5, pp. 048-056 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401162
abstract: While the question ``how many CNOT gates are needed to simulate an arbitrary two-qubit operator'' has been conclusively answered -- three are necessary and sufficient -- previous work on this topic assumes that one wants to simulate a given unitary operator up to global phase. However, in many practical cases additional degrees of freedom are allowed. For example, if the computation is to be followed by a given projective measurement, many dissimilar operators achieve the same output distributions on all input states. Alternatively, if it is known that the input state is |0>, the action of the given operator on all orthogonal states is immaterial. In such cases, we say that the unitary operator is incompletely specified; in this work, we take up the practical challenge of satisfying a given specification with the smallest possible circuit. In particular, we identify cases in which such operators can be implemented using fewer quantum gates than are required for generic completely specified operators.

id: quant-ph/0401163
title: A BPS Interpretation of Shape Invariance
authors: Michael Faux, Donald Spector
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10397-10407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401163
abstract: We show that shape invariance appears when a quantum mechanical model is invariant under a centrally extended superalgebra endowed with an additional symmetry generator, which we dub the shift operator. The familiar mathematical and physical results of shape invariance then arise from the BPS structure associated with this shift operator. The shift operator also ensures that there is a one-to-one correspondence between the energy levels of such a model and the energies of the BPS-saturating states. These findings thus provide a more comprehensive algebraic setting for understanding shape invariance.

id: quant-ph/0401164
title: Complete Resolution of the Quantum Zeno Paradox for Outside Observers
authors: M. Hotta, M. Morikawa
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401164
abstract: The quantum Zeno paradox is fully resolved for purely indirect and incomplete measurements performed by the detectors outside the system. If the outside detectors are prepared to observe propagating signals of a decay event of an excited state in the core region, the survival probability of the state is not changed at all by the outside measurements, as long as the wavefunction of the signals does not have reflectional-wave contributions going back to the core by the outside detectors. The proof is independendent of the decay law of the survival probabilities. Just watching frequently from outside (observation) cannot be regarded as a measurement which yields the quantum Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0401165
title: Positive P-Representations of the Thermal Operator from Quantum Control Theory
authors: John A. Sidles
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401165
abstract: A positive P-representation for the spin-j thermal density matrix is given in closed form. The representation is constructed by regarding the wave function as the internal state of a closed-loop control system. A continuous interferometric measurement process is proved to einselect coherent states, and feedback control is proved to be equivalent to a thermal reservoir. Ito equations are derived, and the P-representation is obtained from a Fokker-Planck equation. Langevin equations are derived, and the force noise is shown to be the Hilbert transform of the measurement noise. The formalism is applied to magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM) and gravity wave (GW) interferometry. Some unsolved problems relating to drift and diffusion on Hilbert spaces are noted.

id: quant-ph/0401166
title: Experimental realization of a programmable quantum-state discriminator and a phase-covariant quantum multimeter
authors: Jan Soubusta, Antonin Cernoch, Jaromir Fiurasek, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052321 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401166
abstract: We present an optical implementation of two programmable quantum measurement devices. The first one serves for unambiguous discrimination of two nonorthogonal states of a qubit. The particular pair of states to be discriminated is specified by the quantum state of a program qubit. The second device can perform von Neumann measurements on a single qubit in any basis located on the equator of the Bloch sphere. Again, the basis is selected by the state of a program qubit. In both cases the data and program qubits are represented by polarization states of photons. The experimental apparatus exploits the fact that two Bell states can be distinguished solely by means of linear optics. The outcome corresponding to the remaining two Bell states represents an inconclusive result.

id: quant-ph/0401167
title: About distillability of depolarized states
authors: Andrea R. Rossi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51, 1037 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401167
abstract: Reduction criteria for distillability is applied to general depolarized states and an explicit condition is found in terms of a characteristic polynomial of the density matrix. 3 $\times$ 3 bipartite systems are analyzed in some details.

id: quant-ph/0401168
title: Random Solitons Realization of Quantum Mechanics and Stochastic Qubits
authors: Yu. P. Rybakov, T. F. Kamalov
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: Bulletin PFUniversity of Russia, Applied Mathematics, 2003, V. 2, No. 2, p.117-122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401168
abstract: Stochastic realization of the wave function in quantum mechanics, with the inclusion of soliton representation of extended particles, is discussed. The concept of Stochastic Qubits is used for quantum computing modeling.

id: quant-ph/0401169
title: Validation of entanglement purification by continuous variable polarization
authors: Francesca Alessandrini, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, iop style. To appear in J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B 6, S473 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401169
abstract: We investigate the possibility of characterizing two-party entanglement by measuring correlations of Stokes operators in polarized bright light beams. We adapt a general separability criterion to such operators. We then show that entanglement purification can only be singled out for a particular protocol.

id: quant-ph/0401170
title: Simplified derivation of the Hawking-Unruh temperature for an accelerated observer in vacuum
authors: Paul M. Alsing, Peter W. Milonni
comments: 11 pages, no figures, (written in REVTEX4). Submitted to Am. J. Phys, 26Jan04. - Accepted Am.J.Phys (to appear Nov 2004). 15 pages, fixed confusing typo in Eq.(8), expanded references citng related previous works, discussion of parameter domain of integrals used, and relationship of Minkowski to Rindler vacuum
journal: Am.J.Phys. 72 (2004) 1524-1529
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401170
abstract: A detector undergoing uniform acceleration $a$ in a vacuum field responds just as though it were immersed in thermal radiation of temperature $T=\hbar a/2\pi k c$. A simple, intuitive derivation of this result is given for the case of a scalar field in one spatial dimension. The approach is then extended to treat the case where the field seen by the accelerated observer is a spin-1/2 Dirac field.

id: quant-ph/0401171
title: Jump-like unravelings for non-Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Jay Gambetta, T. Askerud, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052104 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401171
abstract: Non-Markovian evolution of an open quantum system can be `unraveled' into pure state trajectories generated by a non-Markovian stochastic (diffusive) Schr\"odinger equation, as introduced by Di\'osi, Gisin, and Strunz. Recently we have shown that such equations can be derived using the modal (hidden variable) interpretation of quantum mechanics. In this paper we generalize this theory to treat jump-like unravelings. To illustrate the jump-like behavior we consider a simple system: A classically driven (at Rabi frequency $\Omega$) two-level atom coupled linearly to a three mode optical bath, with a central frequency equal to the frequency of the atom, $\omega_0$, and the two side bands have frequencies $\omega_0\pm\Omega$. In the large $\Omega$ limit we observed that the jump-like behavior is similar to that observed in this system with a Markovian (broad band) bath. This is expected as in the Markovian limit the fluorescence spectrum for a strongly driven two level atom takes the form of a Mollow triplet. However the length of time for which the Markovian-like behaviour persists depends upon {\em which} jump-like unraveling is used.

id: quant-ph/0401172
title: Degradation of continuous variable entanglement in a phase-sensitive environment
authors: Andrea R. Rossi, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: to be published in the special issue of J. Mod. Opt. (April 2004) edited by R. Bonifacio, B.G. Englert and M.G.A. Paris, devoted to the 2003 Garda Lake Workshop on "Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics"
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51, 1057 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401172
abstract: We address the propagation of twin-beam of radiation through Gaussian phase-sensitive channels, i.e. noisy channels with squeezed fluctuations. We find that squeezing the environment always reduces the survival time of entanglement in comparison to the case of simple dissipation and thermal noise. We also show that the survival time is further reduced if the squeezing phase of the fluctuations is different from the twin-beam phase.

id: quant-ph/0401173
title: Erasure versus teleportation scheme of optical CNOT gate
authors: Antoni Wojcik, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inf. Comp. 4, 373 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401173
abstract: We clarify the connections between the erasure scheme of probabilistic CNOT gate implementation recently proposed by Pittman, Jacobs and Franson [Phys. Rev. A 64, 062311 (2001)] and quantum teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0401174
title: The Semiclassical Regime of the Chaotic Quantum-Classical Transition
authors: Benjamin D. Greenbaum, Salman Habib, Kosuke Shizume, Bala Sundaram
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to CHAOS; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401174
abstract: An analysis of the semiclassical regime of the quantum-classical transition is given for open, bounded, one dimensional chaotic dynamical systems. Environmental fluctuations -- characteristic of all realistic dynamical systems -- suppress the development of fine structure in classical phase space and damp nonlocal contributions to the semiclassical Wigner function which would otherwise invalidate the approximation. This dual regularization of the singular nature of the semiclassical limit is demonstrated by a numerical investigation of the chaotic Duffing oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0401175
title: Quantising on a category
authors: C J Isham
comments: To appear in a volume dedicated to the memory of James Cushing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401175
abstract: We review the problem of finding a general framework within which one can construct quantum theories of non-standard models for space, or space-time. The starting point is the observation that entities of this type can typically be regarded as objects in a category whose arrows are structure-preserving maps. This motivates investigating the general problem of quantising a system whose `configuration space' (or history-theory analogue) is the set of objects $\Ob\Q$ in a category $\Q$. We develop a scheme based on constructing an analogue of the group that is used in the canonical quantisation of a system whose configuration space is a manifold $Q\simeq G/H$, where $G$ and $H$ are Lie groups. In particular, we choose as the analogue of $G$ the monoid of `arrow fields' on $\Q$. Physically, this means that an arrow between two objects in the category is viewed as an analogue of momentum. After finding the `category quantisation monoid', we show how suitable representations can be constructed using a bundle (or, more precisely, presheaf) of Hilbert spaces over $\Ob\Q$. For the example of a category of finite sets, we construct an explicit representation structure of this type.

id: quant-ph/0401176
title: Polarization-sensitive quantum-optical coherence tomography
authors: Mark C. Booth, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Alexander V. Sergienko, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401176
abstract: We set forth a polarization-sensitive quantum-optical coherence tomography (PS-QOCT) technique that provides axial optical sectioning with polarization-sensitive capabilities. The technique provides a means for determining information about the optical path length between isotropic reflecting surfaces, the relative magnitude of the reflectance from each interface, the birefringence of the interstitial material, and the orientation of the optical axis of the sample. PS-QOCT is immune to sample dispersion and therefore permits measurements to be made at depths greater than those accessible via ordinary optical coherence tomography. We also provide a general Jones matrix theory for analyzing PS-QOCT systems and outline an experimental procedure for carrying out such measurements.

id: quant-ph/0401177
title: Bloch Equations and Completely Positive Maps
authors: Sonja Daffer, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz, John K. McIver
comments: Talk given at the Conference "Quantum Challenges", Falenty, Poland, September 4-7, 2003. 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Mod. Optics 51, 1843 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401177
abstract: The phenomenological dissipation of the Bloch equations is reexamined in the context of completely positive maps. Such maps occur if the dissipation arises from a reduction of a unitary evolution of a system coupled to a reservoir. In such a case the reduced dynamics for the system alone will always yield completely positive maps of the density operator. We show that, for Markovian Bloch maps, the requirement of complete positivity imposes some Bloch inequalities on the phenomenological damping constants. For non-Markovian Bloch maps some kind of Bloch inequalities involving eigenvalues of the damping basis can be established as well. As an illustration of these general properties we use the depolarizing channel with white and colored stochastic noise.

id: quant-ph/0401178
title: Realization of a General Three-Qubit Quantum Gate
authors: Farrokh Vatan, Colin P. Williams
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, new better bounds
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401178
abstract: We prove that a generic three-qubit quantum logic gate can be implemented using at most 98 one-qubit rotations about the $y$- and $z$-axes and 40 CNOT gates, beating an earlier bound of 64 CNOT gates.

id: quant-ph/0401179
title: This elusive objective existence
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: To appear in IJQI; 21 pages, LaTeX
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 2(2), 201-220 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401179
abstract: Zurek's existential interpretation of quantum mechanics suffers from three classical prejudices, including the belief that space and time are intrinsically and infinitely differentiated. They compel him to relativize the concept of objective existence in two ways. The elimination of these prejudices makes it possible to recognize the quantum formalism's ontological implications - the relative and contingent reality of spatiotemporal distinctions and the extrinsic and finite spatiotemporal differentiation of the physical world - which in turn makes it possible to arrive at an unqualified objective existence. Contrary to a widespread misconception, viewing the quantum formalism as being fundamentally a probability algorithm does not imply that quantum mechanics is concerned with states of knowledge rather than states of Nature. On the contrary, it makes possible a complete and strongly objective description of the physical world that requires no reference to observers. What objectively exists, in a sense that requires no qualification, is the trajectories of macroscopic objects, whose fuzziness is empirically irrelevant, the properties and values of whose possession these trajectories provide indelible records, and the fuzzy and temporally undifferentiated states of affairs that obtain between measurements and are described by counterfactual probability assignments.

id: quant-ph/0401180
title: Probabilities from envariance?
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: To appear in IJQI; 9 pages, LaTeX
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 2(2), 221-230 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401180
abstract: Zurek claims to have derived Born's rule noncircularly in the context of an ontological no-collapse interpretation of quantum states, without any "deus ex machina imposition of the symptoms of classicality." After a brief review of Zurek's derivation it is argued that this claim is exaggerated if not wholly unjustified. In order to demonstrate that Born's rule arises noncircularly from deterministically evolving quantum states, it is not sufficient to assume that quantum states are somehow associated with probabilities and then prove that these probabilities are given by Born's rule. One has to show how irreducible probabilities can arise in the context of an ontological no-collapse interpretation of quantum states. It is argued that the reason why all attempts to do this have so far failed is that quantum states are fundamentally algorithms for computing correlations between possible measurement outcomes, rather than evolving ontological states.

id: quant-ph/0401181
title: Signatures of wave packet revival phenomena in the expectation values of observables
authors: C. Sudheesh, S. Lakshmibala, V. Balakrishnan
comments: 15 pages, RevTeX4, 6 figures (v2) Same paper, electronically garbled abstract corrected!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401181
abstract: Wave packet revivals and fractional revivals are striking quantum interference phenomena that can occur under suitable conditions in a system with a nonlinear spectrum. In the framework of a specific model (the propagation of an initially coherent wave packet in a Kerr-like medium), it is shown that distinctive signatures of these revivals and fractional revivals are displayed by the time evolution of the expectation values of physical observables and their powers, i.e., by experimentally measurable quantities. Moreover, different fractional revivals can be selectively identified by examining appropriate higher moments.

id: quant-ph/0401182
title: Exciton entanglement in two coupled semiconductor microcrystallites
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Sahin K. Ozdemir, Adam Miranowicz, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 4423-4436 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401182
abstract: Entanglement of the excitonic states in the system of two coupled semiconductor microcrystallites, whose sizes are much larger than the Bohr radius of exciton in bulk semiconductor but smaller than the relevant optical wavelength, is quantified in terms of the entropy of entanglement. It is observed that the nonlinear interaction between excitons increases the maximum values of the entropy of the entanglement more than that of the linear coupling model. Therefore, a system of two coupled microcrystallites can be used as a good source of entanglement with fixed exciton number. The relationship between the entropy of the entanglement and the population imbalance of two microcrystallites is numerically shown and the uppermost envelope function for them is estimated by applying the Jaynes principle.

id: quant-ph/0401183
title: Triggered qutrits for Quantum Communication protocols
authors: G. Molina-Terriza, A. Vaziri, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil, A. Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 167903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401183
abstract: A general protocol in Quantum Information and Communication relies in the ability of producing, transmitting and reconstructing, in general, qunits. In this letter we show for the first time the experimental implementation of these three basic steps on a pure state in a three dimensional space, by means of the orbital angular momentum of the photons. The reconstruction of the qutrit is performed with tomographic techniques and a Maximum-Likelihood estimation method. In this way we also demonstrate that we can perform any transformation in the three dimensional space.

id: quant-ph/0401184
title: Estimating mixing properties of local Hamiltonian dynamics and continuous quantum random walks is PSPACE-hard
authors: Pawel Wocjan
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401184
abstract: A major topic of (classical) ergodic theory is to examine qualitatively how the phase space of dynamical systems is penetrated by the orbits of their dynamics. We consider interacting qubit systems with dynamics according to 4-local Hamiltonians and continuous quantum random walks. For these systems one could use the von Neumann entropy of the time-average to characterize the mixing properties of the corresponding orbits, i.e., what portion of the state space and how uniformly it is filled out by the orbits. We show that the problem of estimating this entropy is PSPACE-hard.

id: quant-ph/0401185
title: Scaling Ion Trap Quantum Computation through Fast Quantum Gates
authors: L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 100502 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401185
abstract: We propose a method to achieve scalable quantum computation based on fast quantum gates on an array of trapped ions, without the requirement of ion shuttling. Conditional quantum gates are obtained for any neighboring ions through spin-dependent acceleration of the ions from periodic photon kicks. The gates are shown to be robust to influence of all the other ions in the array and insensitive to the ions' temperature.

id: quant-ph/0401186
title: Testing Quantum Dynamics using Signaling
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 014304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401186
abstract: We consider a physical system in which the description of states and measurements follow the usual quantum mechanical rules. We also assume that the dynamics is linear, but may not be fully quantum (i.e unitary). We show that in such a physical system, certain complementary evolutions, namely cloning and deleting operations that give a better fidelity than quantum mechanically allowed ones, in one (inaccessible) region, lead to signaling to a far-apart (accessible) region. To show such signaling, one requires certain two-party quantum correlated states shared between the two regions. Subsequent measurements are performed only in the accessible part to detect such phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0401187
title: Quantum Estimation by Local Observables
authors: M.Hotta, M.Ozawa
comments: 34 pages, no figures, including minor changes. To be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022327 (1-13) (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401187
abstract: Quantum estimation theory provides optimal observations for various estimation problems for unknown parameters in the state of the system under investigation. However, the theory has been developed under the assumption that every observable is available for experimenters. Here, we generalize the theory to problems in which the experimenter can use only locally accessible observables. For such problems, we establish a Cram{\'e}r-Rao type inequality by obtaining an explicit form of the Fisher information as a reciprocal lower bound for the mean square errors of estimations by locally accessible observables. Furthermore, we explore various local quantum estimation problems for composite systems, where non-trivial combinatorics is needed for obtaining the Fisher information.

id: quant-ph/0401188
title: Vacuum fluctuations and moving atoms/detectors: From Casimir-Polder to Unruh effect
authors: B. L. Hu, A. Roura, S. Shresta
comments: to appear in J. of Optics B -- condensed matter
journal: J.Opt.B quant.Semiclass.Opt.6:S698-S705,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0401188
abstract: In this note we report on some new results \cite{SHP} on corrections to the Casimir-Polder \cite{caspol} retardation force due to atomic motion and present a preliminary (unpublished) critique on one recently proposed cavity QED detection scheme of Unruh effect \cite{Unr76}. These two well-known effects arise from the interaction between a moving atom or detector with a quantum field under some boundary conditions introduced by a conducting mirror/cavity or dielectric wall. The Casimir-Polder force is a retardation force on the atom due to the dressing of the atomic ground state by the vacuum electromagnetic field in the presence of a conducting mirror or dielectric wall. We have recently provided an improved calculation by treating the mutual influence of the atom and the (constrained) field in a self-consistent way. For an atom moving adiabatically, perpendicular to a mirror, our result finds a coherent retardation correction up to twice the stationary value. Unruh effect refers loosely to the fact that a uniformly accelerated detector feels hot. Two prior schemes have been proposed for the detection of `Unruh radiation', based on charged particles in linear accelerators and storage rings. Here we are interested in a third scheme proposed recently by Scully {\it et al} \cite{Scully03} involving the injection of accelerated atoms into a microwave or optical cavity. We analyze two main factors instrumental to the purported success in this scheme, the cavity factor and the sudden switch-on factor. We conclude that the effects engendered from these factors are unrelated to the Unruh effect.

id: cond-mat/0401087
title: Quantum holonomies with Josephson-junction devices
authors: Mateusz Cholascinski
comments: RevTeX4, 5 pages, 3 figures, minor changes requested by Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 134516 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401087
abstract: We examined properties of a Josephson-junction system composed of two coupled Cooper-pair boxes (charge qubits) as a candidate for observation of quantum holonomies. We construct a universal set of transformations in a two-fold degenerate ground state, and discuss the effects of noise in the system.

id: cond-mat/0401145
title: Molecular phases in coupled quantum dots
authors: M. Rontani, S. Amaha, K. Muraki, F. Manghi, E. Molinari, S. Tarucha, D. G. Austing
comments: PDF file only, 28 pages, 3 tables, 4 color figures, 2 appendices. To appear in Physical Review B, Scheduled 15 Feb 2004, Vol. 69, Issue 8
journal: Physical Review B, Vol. 69, p. 85327 (2004).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401145
abstract: We present excitation energy spectra of few-electron vertically coupled quantum dots for strong and intermediate inter-dot coupling. By applying a magnetic field, we induce ground state transitions and identify the corresponding quantum numbers by comparison with few-body calculations. In addition to atomic-like states, we find novel "molecular-like" phases. The isospin index characterizes the nature of the bond of the artificial molecule and this we control. Like spin in a single quantum dot, transitions in isospin leading to full polarization are observed with increasing magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0401201
title: Many-particle localization by constructed disorder: enabling quantum computing with perpetually coupled qubits
authors: M.I. Dykman, F.M. Izrailev, L.F. Santos, M. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401201
abstract: We demonstrate that, in a many-particle system, particles can be strongly confined to their sites. The localization is obtained by constructing a sequence of on-site energies that efficiently suppresses resonant hopping. The time during which a many-particle state remains strongly localized in an infinite chain can exceed the reciprocal hopping frequency by $\agt 10^6$ already for a narrow energy bandwidth. The results show viability of quantum computers with time-independent qubit coupling.

id: cond-mat/0401204
title: Quantum trajectories for the realistic measurement of a solid-state charge qubit
authors: Neil P. Oxtoby, P. Warszawski, H. M. Wiseman, He-Bi Sun, R. E. S. Polkinghorne
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Shorter, significantly modified, updated version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 165317 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401204
abstract: We present a new model for the continuous measurement of a coupled quantum dot charge qubit. We model the effects of a realistic measurement, namely adding noise to, and filtering, the current through the detector. This is achieved by embedding the detector in an equivalent circuit for measurement. Our aim is to describe the evolution of the qubit state conditioned on the macroscopic output of the external circuit. We achieve this by generalizing a recently developed quantum trajectory theory for realistic photodetectors [P. Warszawski, H. M. Wiseman and H. Mabuchi, Phys. Rev. A_65_ 023802 (2002)] to treat solid-state detectors. This yields stochastic equations whose (numerical) solutions are the ``realistic quantum trajectories'' of the conditioned qubit state. We derive our general theory in the context of a low transparency quantum point contact. Areas of application for our theory and its relation to previous work are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0401226
title: Experimental realization of the one qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm in a quantum dot
authors: P. Bianucci, A. Muller, C. K. Shih, Q. Q. Wang, X. K. Xue, C. Piermarocchi
comments: REVTex4, 4 pages, 3 figures. Now includes more details about the dephasing in the quantum dots. The introduction has been reworded for clarity. Minor readability fixes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 161303(R) (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401226
abstract: We perform quantum interference experiments on a single self-assembled semiconductor quantum dot. The presence or absence of a single exciton in the dot provides a qubit that we control with femtosecond time resolution. We combine a set of quantum operations to realize the single-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. The results show the feasibility of single qubit quantum logic in a semiconductor quantum dot using ultrafast optical control.

id: cond-mat/0401248
title: Evaluation of Decoherence for Quantum Control and Computing
authors: Arkady Fedorov, Leonid Fedichkin, Vladimir Privman
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Comp. Theor. Nanosci. 1, 132-143 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401248
abstract: Different approaches in quantifying environmentally-induced decoherence are considered. We identify a measure of decoherence, derived from the density matrix of the system of interest, that quantifies the environmentally induced error, i.e., deviation from the ideal isolated-system dynamics. This measure can be shown to have several useful features. Its behavior as a function of time has no dependence on the initial conditions, and is expected to be insensitive to the internal dynamical time scales of the system, thus only probing the decoherence-related time dependence. For a spin-boson model - a prototype of a qubit interacting with environment - we also demonstrate the property of additivity: in the regime of the onset of decoherence, the sum of the individual qubit error measures provides an estimate of the error for a several-qubit system, even if the qubits are entangled, as expected in quantum-computing applications. This makes it possible to estimate decoherence for several-qubits quantum computer gate designs for which explicit calculations are exceedingly difficult.

id: cond-mat/0401352
title: Non-Gaussian Resistance Noise near Electrical Breakdown in Granular Materials
authors: C. Pennetta, E. Alfinito, L. Reggiani, S. Ruffo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; accepted for publication on Physica A
journal: Physica A 340(1-3) 380 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401352
abstract: The distribution of resistance fluctuations of conducting thin films with granular structure near electrical breakdown is studied by numerical simulations. The film is modeled as a resistor network in a steady state determined by the competition between two biased processes, breaking and recovery. Systems of different sizes and with different levels of internal disorder are considered. Sharp deviations from a Gaussian distribution are found near breakdown and the effect increases with the degree of internal disorder. However, we show that in general this non-Gaussianity is related to the finite size of the system and vanishes in the large size limit. Nevertheless, near the critical point of the conductor-insulator transition, deviations from Gaussianity persist when the size is increased and the distribution of resistance fluctuations is well fitted by the universal Bramwell-Holdsworth-Pinton distribution.

id: cond-mat/0401358
title: Entanglement generation in persistent current qubits
authors: J.F.Ralph, T.D.Clark, T.P.Spiller, W.J.Munro
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, minor changes in reply to referees comments
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 144527 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401358
abstract: In this paper we investigate the generation of entanglement between two persistent current qubits. The qubits are coupled inductively to each other and to a common bias field, which is used to control the qubit behaviour and is represented schematically by a linear oscillator mode. We consider the use of classical and quantum representations for the qubit control fields and how fluctuations in the control fields tend to suppress entanglement. In particular, we demonstrate how fluctuations in the bias fields affect the entanglement generated between persistent current qubits and may limit the ability to design practical systems.

id: cond-mat/0401373
title: Supersymmetry approach to nuclear-spin-polarization-induced quantum dot structure calculations
authors: B. F. Samsonov, Yu. V. Pershin
comments: Physica E (in press) (2005)
journal: Physica E 28, 134 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401373
abstract: In nuclear-spin-polarization-induced quantum dots the electrons are confined through local nuclear spin polarization. The model electron confinement potential is time-dependent due to the nuclear spin diffusion and relaxation processes. It can be well-approximated by a Gaussian curve which is not an exactly solvable potential. We demonstrate that it can also be approximated by multisoliton potentials for the zero value of the angular momentum and by their singular analogues for other values of momentum without any loss of calculational accuracy. We obtain these potentials by supersymmetric (or equivalently Darboux) transformations from the zero potential. The main advantage of such potentials is that they are exactly solvable. Time-dependence of the nuclear-spin-polarization-induced quantum dot energy levels is found.

id: cond-mat/0401376
title: Berry phase with environment: classical versus quantum
authors: Robert S. Whitney, Yuriy Makhlin, Alexander Shnirman, Yuval Gefen
comments: prepared for proceedings of the NATO ARW on Theory of Quantum Transport in Metallic and Hybrid Nanostructures, St. Petersburg, August 2003. Talk presented by Y. Gefen
journal: NATO science series II: mathematics, physics and chemistry, 230, 9 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401376
abstract: We discuss the concept of the Berry phase in a dissipative system. We show that one can identify a Berry phase in a weakly-dissipative system and find the respective correction to this quantity, induced by the environment. This correction is expressed in terms of the symmetrized noise power and is therefore insensitive to the nature of the noise representing the environment, namely whether it is classical or quantum mechanical. It is only the spectrum of the noise which counts. We analyze a model of a spin-half (qubit) anisotropically coupled to its environment and explicitly show the coincidence between the effect of a quantum environment and a classical one.

id: cond-mat/0401451
title: Non perturbative approach to Casimir interactions in periodic geometries
authors: Rauno Buescher, Thorsten Emig
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401451
abstract: Due to their collective nature Casimir forces can strongly depend on the geometrical shape of the interacting objects. We study the effect of strong periodic shape deformations of two ideal metal plates on their quantum interaction. A non-perturbative approach which is based on a path integral quantization of the electromagnetic field is presented in detail. Using this approach, we compute the force for the specific case of a flat plate and a plate with a rectangular corrugation. We obtain complementary analytical and numerical results which allow us to identify two different scaling regimes for the force as a function of the mean plate distance, corrugation amplitude and wave length. Qualitative distinctions between transversal electric and magnetic modes are revealed. Our results demonstrate the importance of a careful consideration of the non-additivity of Casimir forces, especially in strongly non-planar geometries. Non-perturbative effects due to surface edges are found. Strong deviations from the commonly used proximity force approximation emerge over a wide range of corrugation wave lengths, even though the surface is composed only of flat segments. We compare our results to that of a perturbative approach and a classical optics approximation.

id: cond-mat/0401484
title: Quadratic Quantum Measurements
authors: Wenjin Mao, Dmitri V. Averin, Rusko Ruskov, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 056803 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401484
abstract: We develop a theory of quadratic quantum measurements by a mesoscopic detector. It is shown that quadratic measurements should have non-trivial quantum information properties, providing, for instance, a simple way of entangling two non-interacting qubits. We also calculate output spectrum of a quantum detector with both linear and quadratic response continuously monitoring coherent oscillations in two qubits.

id: cond-mat/0401526
title: Magnetization plateaus for spin-one bosons in optical lattices: Stern-Gerlach experiments with strongly correlated atoms
authors: Adilet Imambekov, Mikhail Lukin, Eugene Demler
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 120405 (2004)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401526
abstract: We consider insulating states of spin-one bosons in optical lattices in the presence of a weak magnetic field. For the states with more than one atom per lattice site we find a series of quantum phase transitions between states with fixed magnetization and a canted nematic phase. In the presence of a global confining potential, this unusual phase diagram leads to several novel phenomena, including formation of magnetization plateaus. We discuss how these effects can be observed using spatially resolved density measurements.

id: cond-mat/0401548
title: Adiabatic processes need not correspond to optimal work
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401548
abstract: The minimum work principle states that work done on a thermally isolated equilibrium system is minimal for the adiabatically slow (reversible) realization of a given process. This principle, one of the formulations of the second law, is studied here for finite (possibly large) quantum systems interacting with macroscopic sources of work. It is shown to be valid as long as the adiabatic energy levels do not cross. If level crossing does occur, counter examples are discussed, showing that the minimum work principle can be violated and that optimal processes are neither adiabatically slow nor reversible.

id: cond-mat/0401562
title: Properties of metallic films in precise calculation of the Casimir force
authors: V. B. Svetovoy
comments: 6 pages, contribution to the 6th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT03), Norman, Oklahoma, September 15-19, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401562
abstract: Optical properties of the deposited gold films are discussed in connection with the Casimir force prediction. Voids in the films and electron scattering on the grain boundaries reduce the force at small separations on the 2% level in comparison with the bulk material prediction. The contribution of the patch potential due to polycrystalline structure of the films is shown to be small for the existing Casimir force experiments.

id: cond-mat/0401574
title: Maximal work extraction from quantum systems
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, R. Balian, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0401574
abstract: Thermodynamics teaches that if a system initially off-equilibrium is coupled to work sources, the maximum work that it may yield is governed by its energy and entropy. For finite systems this bound is usually not reachable. The maximum extractable work compatible with quantum mechanics (``ergotropy'') is derived and expressed in terms of the density matrix and the Hamiltonian. It is related to the property of majorization: more major states can provide more work. Scenarios of work extraction that contrast the thermodynamic intuition are discussed, e.g. a state with larger entropy than another may produce more work, while correlations may increase or reduce the ergotropy.

id: cs/0401019
title: Using biased coins as oracles
authors: Toby Ord, Tien D. Kieu
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0401019
abstract: While it is well known that a Turing machine equipped with the ability to flip a fair coin cannot compute more that a standard Turing machine, we show that this is not true for a biased coin. Indeed, any oracle set $X$ may be coded as a probability $p_{X}$ such that if a Turing machine is given a coin which lands heads with probability $p_{X}$ it can compute any function recursive in $X$ with arbitrarily high probability. We also show how the assumption of a non-recursive bias can be weakened by using a sequence of increasingly accurate recursive biases or by choosing the bias at random from a distribution with a non-recursive mean. We conclude by briefly mentioning some implications regarding the physical realisability of such methods.

id: gr-qc/0401015
title: Quantum Foam
authors: Y. Jack Ng
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, talk given at the 10th Marcel Grossman Meeting (Rio de Janeiro, July 20 - 26, 2003)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0401015
abstract: Quantum foam, also known as spacetime foam, has its origin in quantum fluctuations of spacetime. Its physics is intimately linked to that of black holes and computation. Arguably it is the source of the holographic principle which severely limits how densely information can be packed in space. Various proposals to detect the foam are briefly discussed. Its detection will provide us with a glimpse of the ultimate structure of space and time.

id: gr-qc/0401110
title: Comparison of area spectra in loop quantum gravity
authors: G. Gour, V. Suneeta
comments: 8 pages, Revtex 4, version to appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 21 (2004) 3405-3418
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0401110
abstract: We compare two area spectra proposed in loop quantum gravity in different approaches to compute the entropy of the Schwarzschild black hole. We describe the black hole in general microcanonical and canonical area ensembles for these spectra. We show that in the canonical ensemble, the results for all statistical quantities for any spectrum can be reproduced by a heuristic picture of Bekenstein up to second order. For one of these spectra - the equally-spaced spectrum - in light of a proposed connection of the black hole area spectrum to the quasinormal mode spectrum and following hep-th/0304135, we present explicit calculations to argue that this spectrum is completely consistent with this connection. This follows without requiring a change in the gauge group of the spin degrees of freedom in this formalism from SU(2) to SO(3). We also show that independent of the area spectrum, the degeneracy of the area observable is bounded by $C A\exp(A/4)$, where $A$ is measured in Planck units and $C$ is a constant of order unity.

id: hep-th/0401028
title: What is Quantum Theory of Gravity?
authors: Djordje Minic, Chia-Hsiung Tze
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX. Contribution to the proceedings of QTS3, held the University of Cincinnati, September 10-14, 2003
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401028
abstract: We present a line by line derivation of canonical quantum mechanics stemming from the compatibility of the statistical geometry of distinguishable observations with the canonical Poisson structure of Hamiltonian dynamics. This viewpoint can be naturally extended to provide a conceptually novel, non-perturbative formulation of quantum gravity. Possible observational implications of this new approach are briefly mentioned.

id: hep-th/0401039
title: New experimental proposals for testing Dirac equation
authors: Abel Camacho, Alfredo Macias
comments: Accepted in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys.Lett. B582 (2004) 229-236
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401039
abstract: The advent of phenomenological quantum gravity has ushered us in the search for experimental tests of the deviations from general relativity predicted by quantum gravity or by string theories, and as a by--product of this quest the possible modifications that some field equations, for instance, the motion equation of spin--1/2--particles, have already been considered. In the present work a modified Dirac equation, whose extra term embraces a second--order time derivative, is taken as mainstay, and three different experimental proposals to detect it are put forward. The novelty in these ideas is that two of them do not fall within the extant approaches in this context, to wit, red--shift, atomic interferometry, or Hughes--Drever type--like experiments.

id: hep-th/0401080
title: What is geometry in quantum theory
authors: G.Sardanashvily, G.Giachetta
comments: Scientific preface to the first issue of International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, 26 pp
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 1 (2004) 1-22
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401080
abstract: In this scientific preface to the first issue of International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, we briefly survey some peculiarities of geometric techniques in quantum models.

id: hep-th/0401090
title: Casimir Energies and Pressures for $¦Ä$-function Potentials
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 16 pages, 1 eps figure, uses REVTeX4
journal: J.Phys.A37:6391-6406,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401090
abstract: The Casimir energies and pressures for a massless scalar field associated with $\delta$-function potentials in 1+1 and 3+1 dimensions are calculated. For parallel plane surfaces, the results are finite, coincide with the pressures associated with Dirichlet planes in the limit of strong coupling, and for weak coupling do not possess a power-series expansion in 1+1 dimension. The relation between Casimir energies and Casimir pressures is clarified,and the former are shown to involve surface terms. The Casimir energy for a $\delta$-function spherical shell in 3+1 dimensions has an expression that reduces to the familiar result for a Dirichlet shell in the strong-coupling limit. However, the Casimir energy for finite coupling possesses a logarithmic divergence first appearing in third order in the weak-coupling expansion, which seems unremovable. The corresponding energies and pressures for a derivative of a $\delta$-function potential for the same spherical geometry generalizes the TM contributions of electrodynamics. Cancellation of divergences can occur between the TE ($\delta$-function) and TM (derivative of $\delta$-function) Casimir energies. These results clarify recent discussions in the literature.

id: hep-th/0401117
title: Finite Casimir Energies in Renormalizable Quantum Field Theory
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 20 pages, 2 ps figures, uses ws-procs975x65.cls Invited talk given at Marcel Grossmann X, Rio de Janeiro,July 2003
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401117
abstract: Quantum vacuum energy has been known to have observable consequences since 1948 when Casimir calculated the force of attraction between parallel uncharged plates, a phenomenon confirmed experimentally with ever increasing precision. Casimir himself suggested that a similar attractive self-stress existed for a conducting spherical shell, but Boyer obtained a repulsive stress. Other geometries and higher dimensions have been considered over the years. Local effects, and divergences associated with surfaces and edges have been investigated by several authors. Quite recently, Graham et al. have re-examined such calculations, using conventional techniques of perturbative quantum field theory to remove divergences, and have suggested that previous self-stress results may be suspect. Here we show that most of the examples considered in their work are misleading; in particular, it is well-known that in two dimensions a circular boundary has a divergence in the Casimir energy for massless fields, while for general dimension $D$ not equal to an even integer the corresponding Casimir energy arising from massless fields interior and exterior to a hyperspherical shell is finite. It has also long been recognized that the Casimir energy for massive fields is divergent for curved boundaries. These conclusions are reinforced by a calculation of the relevant leading Feynman diagram in $D$ dimensions. Divergences do occur in third order, as has been recognized for many years, but this logarithmic divergence is of questionable relevance to real shells.

id: hep-th/0401118
title: Holography and the Shannon's First Theorem
authors: L.Alejandro Correa-Borbonet
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf. 3 (2005) 129-134
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401118
abstract: A possible link between Holography and Information Theory is presented. Using the relation between the Shannon and Boltzmann formulas Holography can be seen as the best encoding scheme.

id: hep-th/0401172
title: The LQG -- String: Loop Quantum Gravity Quantization of String Theory I. Flat Target Space
authors: Thomas Thiemann
comments: 46 p., LaTex2e, no figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 1923-1970
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401172
abstract: We combine I. background independent Loop Quantum Gravity (LQG) quantization techniques, II. the mathematically rigorous framework of Algebraic Quantum Field Theory (AQFT) and III. the theory of integrable systems resulting in the invariant Pohlmeyer Charges in order to set up the general representation theory (superselection theory) for the closed bosonic quantum string on flat target space. While we do not solve the, expectedly, rich representation theory completely, we present a, to the best of our knowledge new, non -- trivial solution to the representation problem. This solution exists 1. for any target space dimension, 2. for Minkowski signature of the target space, 3. without tachyons, 4. manifestly ghost -- free (no negative norm states), 5. without fixing a worldsheet or target space gauge, 6. without (Virasoro) anomalies (zero central charge), 7. while preserving manifest target space Poincar\'e invariance and 8. without picking up UV divergences. The existence of this stable solution is exciting because it raises the hope that among all the solutions to the representation problem (including fermionic degrees of freedom) we find stable, phenomenologically acceptable ones in lower dimensional target spaces, possibly without supersymmetry, that are much simpler than the solutions that arise via compactification of the standard Fock representation of the string. Moreover, these new representations could solve some of the major puzzles of string theory such as the cosmological constant problem. The solution presented in this paper exploits the flatness of the target space in several important ways. In a companion paper we treat the more complicated case of curved target spaces.

id: hep-th/0401187
title: Area Spectrum of Kerr and extremal Kerr Black Holes from Quasinormal Modes
authors: Mohammad R. Setare, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 10 pages, no figure, LaTeX; v2: 12 pages, clarifying comments and an Appendix are added, version to appear in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 1923-1932
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401187
abstract: Motivated by the recent interest in quantization of black hole area spectrum, we consider the area spectrum of Kerr and extremal Kerr black holes. Based on the proposal by Bekenstein and others that the black hole area spectrum is discrete and equally spaced, we implement Kunstatter's method to derive the area spectrum for the Kerr and extremal Kerr black holes. The real part of the quasinormal frequencies of Kerr black hole used for this computation is of the form $m\Omega$ where $\Omega$ is the angular velocity of the black hole horizon. The resulting spectrum is discrete but not as expected uniformly spaced. Thus, we infer that the function describing the real part of quasinormal frequencies of Kerr black hole is not the correct one. This conclusion is in agreement with the numerical results for the highly damped quasinormal modes of Kerr black hole recently presented by Berti, Cardoso and Yoshida. On the contrary, extremal Kerr black hole is shown to have a discrete area spectrum which in addition is evenly spaced. The area spacing derived in our analysis for the extremal Kerr black hole area spectrum is not proportional to $\ln 3$. Therefore, it does not give support to Hod's statement that the area spectrum $A_{n}=(4l^{2}_{p}ln 3)n$ should be valid for a generic Kerr-Newman black hole.

id: hep-th/0401190
title: An Information-Theoretic Link Between Spacetime Symmetries and Quantum Linearity
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 43 pages; minor revisions. essentially journal version
journal: Annals Phys. 315 (2005) 419-452
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401190
abstract: A nonlinear generalisation of Schrodinger's equation is obtained using information-theoretic arguments. The nonlinearities are controlled by an intrinsic length scale and involve derivatives to all orders thus making the equation mildly nonlocal. The nonlinear equation is homogeneous, separable, conserves probability, but is not invariant under spacetime symmetries. Spacetime symmetries are recovered when a dimensionless parameter is tuned to vanish, whereby linearity is simultaneously established and the length scale becomes hidden. It is thus suggested that if, in the search for a more basic foundation for Nature's Laws, an inference principle is given precedence over symmetry requirements, then the symmetries of spacetime and the linearity of quantum theory might both be emergent properties that are intrinsically linked. Supporting arguments are provided for this point of view and some testable phenomenological consequences highlighted. The generalised Klien-Gordon and Dirac equations are also studied, leading to the suggestion that nonlinear quantum dynamics with intrinsically broken spacetime symmetries might be relevant to understanding the problem of neutrino mass(lessness) and oscillations: Among other observations, this approach hints at the existence of a hidden discrete family symmetry in the Standard Model of particle physics.

id: hep-th/0401198
title: Path Integral Approach to Noncommutative Quantum Mechanics
authors: Branko Dragovich, Zoran Rakic
comments: 11 pages, to appear in the proceedings of the Fifth Int. Workshop "Lie Theory and its Applications in Physics" (Varna, 2003), World Scientific, 2004
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401198
abstract: We consider Feynman's path integral approach to quantum mechanics with a noncommutativity in position and momentum sectors of the phase space. We show that a quantum-mechanical system with this kind of noncommutativity is equivalent to the another one with usual commutative coordinates and momenta. We found connection between quadratic classical Hamiltonians, as well as Lagrangians, in their commutative and noncommutative regimes. The general procedure to compute Feynman's path integral on this noncommutative phase space with quadratic Lagrangians (Hamiltonians) is presented. Using this approach, a particle in a constant field, ordinary and inverted harmonic oscillators are elaborated in detail.

id: hep-th/0401208
title: The difference between Dirac's hole theory and quantum field theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Accepted as a chapter in "Progress in Quantum Physics Research" Nova Science Publishers. 62 pages
journal: Frontiers in Quantum Physics Research (Nova Science, 2004)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0401208
abstract: Dirac's hole theory and quantum field theory are generally thought to be equivalent. In fact field theory can be derived from hole theory through the process of second quantization. However, it can be shown that problems worked in both theories yield different results. The reason for the difference between the two theories will be examined and the effect the this difference has on the way calculations are done in quantum theory will be examined.

id: math-ph/0401020
title: Upper and lower limits on the number of bound states in a central potential
authors: Fabian Brau, Francesco Calogero
comments: 44 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A36, 12021 (2003)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0401020
abstract: In a recent paper new upper and lower limits were given, in the context of the Schr\"{o}dinger or Klein-Gordon equations, for the number $N_{0}$ of S-wave bound states possessed by a monotonically nondecreasing central potential vanishing at infinity. In this paper these results are extended to the number $N_{\ell}$ of bound states for the $\ell$-th partial wave, and results are also obtained for potentials that are not monotonic and even somewhere positive. New results are also obtained for the case treated previously, including the remarkably neat \textit{lower} limit $N_{\ell}\geq \{\{[\sigma /(2\ell+1)+1]/2\}\}$ with $% \sigma =(2/\pi) \underset{0\leq r<\infty}{\max}[r| V(r)| ^{1/2}]$ (valid in the Schr\"{o}dinger case, for a class of potentials that includes the monotonically nondecreasing ones), entailing the following \textit{lower} limit for the total number $N$ of bound states possessed by a monotonically nondecreasing central potential vanishing at infinity: $N\geq \{\{(\sigma+1)/2\}\} {(\sigma+3)/2\} \}/2$ (here the double braces denote of course the integer part).

id: math-ph/0401021
title: A class of ($\ell$-dependent) potentials with the same number of ($\ell$-wave) bound states
authors: Fabian Brau, Francesco Calogero
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A312, 16 (2003)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0401021
abstract: We introduce and investigate the class of central potentials $$V_{\text{CIC}}(g^{2},\mu^{2},\ell,R;r)=-\frac{g^{2}}{R^{2}} (\frac{r}{R})^{4\ell} {[ 1+(\frac{1}{2\ell+1}) (\frac{r}{R})^{2\ell+1}]^{2}-1+\mu^{2}}^{-2}$$, which possess, in the context of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, a number of $\ell$-wave bound states given by the ($\ell$-independent !) formula $$N_{\ell}^{\text{(CIC)}}(g^{2},\mu ^{2}) ={{\frac{1}{\pi}\sqrt{g^{2}+\mu^{2}-1} (\sqrt{\mu^{2}-1})^{-1} \arctan(\sqrt{\mu^{2}-1})}}$$. Here $g$ and $\mu$ are two arbitrary real parameters, $\ell$ is the angular momentum quantum number, and the double braces denote of course the integer part. An extension of this class features potentials that possess the same number of $\ell$-wave bound states and behave as $(a/r)^{2}$ both at the origin ($r\to 0^{+}$) and at infinity ($r\to \infty$), where $a$ is an additional free parameter.

id: math-ph/0401022
title: Upper limit on the number of bound states of the spinless Salpeter equation
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 18 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A313, 363 (2003)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0401022
abstract: We obtain, using the Birman-Schwinger method, upper limits on the total number of bound states and on the number of $\ell$-wave bound states of the semirelativistic spinless Salpeter equation. We also obtain a simple condition, in the ultrarelativistic case ($m=0$), for the existence of at least one $\ell$-wave bound states: $C(\ell,p/(p-1))$ $\int_0^{\infty}dr r^{p-1} |V^-(r)|^p\ge 1$, where $C(\ell,p/(p-1))$ is a known function of $\ell$ and $p>1$.

id: math-ph/0401023
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for existence of bound states in a central potential
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. A36, 9907 (2003)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0401023
abstract: We obtain, using the Birman-Schwinger method, a series of necessary conditions for the existence of at least one bound state applicable to arbitrary central potentials in the context of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. These conditions yield a monotonic series of lower limits on the "critical" value of the strength of the potential (for which a first bound state appears) which converges to the exact critical strength. We also obtain a sufficient condition for the existence of bound states in a central monotonic potential which yield an upper limit on the critical strength of the potential.

id: math-ph/0401041
title: Conditionally exactly solvable potential and dual transformation in quantum mechanics
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) L133-L135
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0401041
abstract: We comment that the conditionally exactly solvable potential of Dutt et al. and the exactly solvable potential from which it is derived form a dual system.

id: nlin/0401030
title: Quasi-Exact Solvability and the direct approach to invariant subspaces
authors: D. Gomez-Ullate, N. Kamran, R. Milson
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 2005-2020
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0401030
abstract: We propose a more direct approach to constructing differential operators that preserve polynomial subspaces than the one based on considering elements of the enveloping algebra of sl(2). This approach is used here to construct new exactly solvable and quasi-exactly solvable quantum Hamiltonians on the line which are not Lie-algebraic. It is also applied to generate potentials with multiple algebraic sectors. We discuss two illustrative examples of these two applications: an interesting generalization of the Lam\'e potential which posses four algebraic sectors, and a quasi-exactly solvable deformation of the Morse potential which is not Lie-algebraic.

id: physics/0401051
title: Coherency is the ether of XXI century
authors: V.A.Kuz'menko
comments: 3 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0401051
abstract: The concept of coherent states in explanation of a nature of nonlinear phenomena in optics will be inevitably replaced by the concept of inequality of forward and reversed transitions.

