id: quant-ph/0402001
title: Bell's Theorem : The Naive View of an Experimentalist
authors: Alain Aspect
comments: Text prepared for a talk at a conference in memory of John Bell, held in Vienna in December 2000. Published in "Quantum [Un]speakables - From Bell to Quantum information", edited by R. A. Bertlmann and A. Zeilinger, Springer (2002)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402001
abstract: In the first part of this presentation (sections 2 to 6), I show that Bell's Inequalities provide a quantitative criterion to test "reasonable" Supplementary Parameters Theories versus Quantum Mechanics. Following Bell, I first explain the motivations for considering supplementary parameters theories: the argument is based on an analysis of the famous Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) Gedankenexperiment . Introducing a reasonable Locality Condition, we will then derive Bell's theorem, which states: (i) that Local Supplementary Parameters Theories are constrained by Bell's Inequalities; (ii) that certain predictions of Quantum Mechanics violate Bell's Inequalities, and therefore that Quantum Mechanics is incompatible with Local Supplementary Parameters Theories. I then point out that a fundamental assumption for this conflict is the Locality assumption, and I show that in a more sophisticated version of the E.P.R. thought experiment ("timing experiment"), the Locality Condition may be considered a consequence of Einstein's Causality, preventing faster-than-light interactions. The purpose of this first part is to convince the reader that the formalism leading to Bell's Inequalities is very general and reasonable. What is surprising is that such a reasonable formalism conflicts with Quantum Mechanics. In fact, situations exhibiting a conflict are very rare, and Quantum Optics is the domain where the most significant tests of this conflict have been carried out, as presented in sections 7 to 11.

id: quant-ph/0402002
title: Moving Charges, Detectors, and Mirrors in a Quantum Field with Backreaction
authors: Chad R. Galley, B. L. Hu, Philip R. Johnson
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the Third International Symposium on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions, Oklahoma City, Sept. 2003. Proceedings edited by Kimball Milton (Rinton Press, 2004}
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402002
abstract: This is a progress report on our current work on moving charges, detectors, and moving mirrors in a quantum field treated in a fully relativistic way via the Feynman-Vernon influence functional method, which preserves maximal quantum coherence of the system with self-consistent back-reaction from the field.

id: quant-ph/0402003
title: Berry and Pancharatnam Topological Phases of Atomic and Optical Systems
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: Review article,72 pages, 186 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402003
abstract: Theoretical and experimental studies of Berry and Pancharatnam phases are reviewed. Basic elements of differential geometry are presented for understanding the topological nature of these phases. The basic theory analyzed by Berry in relation to magnetic monopoles is presented. The theory is generalized to nonadiabatic processes and to noncyclic Pancharatnam phases. Different systems are discussed including polarization optics, n-level atomic systems, neutron interferometry and molecular topological phases.

id: quant-ph/0402004
title: Dynamics and manipulation of entanglement in coupled harmonic systems with many degrees of freedom
authors: M.B. Plenio, J. Hartley, J. Eisert
comments: 20 pages, 17 figures, replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 6, 36 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402004
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of a system consisting of a large number of coupled harmonic oscillators in various configurations and for different types of nearest neighbour interactions. For a one-dimensional chain we provide compact analytical solutions and approximations to the dynamical evolution of the entanglement between spatially separated oscillators. Key properties such as the speed of entanglement propagation, the maximum amount of transferred entanglement and the efficiency for the entanglement transfer are computed. For harmonic oscillators coupled by springs, corresponding to a phonon model, we observe a non-monotonic transfer efficiency in the initially prepared amount of entanglement, i.e., an intermediate amount of initial entanglement is transferred with the highest efficiency. In contrast, within the framework of the rotating wave approximation (as appropriate e.g. in quantum optical settings) one finds a monotonic behaviour. We also study geometrical configurations that are analogous to quantum optical devices (such as beamsplitters and interferometers) and observe characteristic differences when initially thermal or squeezed states are entering these devices. We show that these devices may be switched on and off by changing the properties of an individual oscillator. They may therefore be used as building blocks of large fixed and pre-fabricated but programmable structures in which quantum information is manipulated through propagation. We discuss briefly possible experimental realisations of systems of interacting harmonic oscillators in which these effects may be confirmed experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0402005
title: Optical quantum computation using cluster states
authors: Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402005
abstract: We propose an approach to optical quantum computation in which a deterministic entangling quantum gate may be performed using, on average, a few hundred coherently interacting optical elements (beamsplitters, phase shifters, single photon sources, and photodetectors with feedforward). This scheme combines ideas from the optical quantum computing proposal of Knill, Laflamme and Milburn [Nature 409 (6816), 46 (2001)], and the abstract cluster-state model of quantum computation proposed by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5188 (2001)].

id: quant-ph/0402006
title: Applicability of Rydberg atoms to quantum computers
authors: Igor I. Ryabtsev, Denis B. Tretyakov, Ilya I. Beterov
comments: 12 pages, 8 EPS figures, Revtex4. Old references corrected, new added
journal: Shorter version in J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) S421--S436
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402006
abstract: Applicability of Rydberg atoms to quantum computers is examined from experimental point of view. In many theoretical proposals appeared recently, excitation of atoms into highly excited Rydberg states was considered as a way to achieve quantum entanglement in cold atomic ensembles via dipole-dipole interaction that could be strong for Rydberg atoms. Appropriate conditions to realize a conditional quantum phase gate have been analyzed. We also present the results of modeling experiments on microwave spectroscopy of single- and multi-atom excitations at the one-photon 37S-37P and two-photon 37S-38S transitions in an ensemble of a few sodium Rydberg atoms. The microwave spectra were investigated for various final states of the ensemble initially prepared in its ground state. The quantum NOT operation with single atoms was found to be affected by the Doppler effect and fluctuations of the microwave field. The spectrum of full excitation of several Rydberg atoms was much narrower than that of a single atom. This effect might be useful for the high-resolution spectroscopy. The results may be also applied to the studies on collective laser excitation of ground-state atoms aiming to realize quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0402007
title: Characterization of maximally entangled two-qubit states via the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402007
abstract: Maximally entangled states should maximally violate the Bell inequality. In this paper, it is proved that all two-qubit states that maximally violate the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality are exactly Bell states and the states obtained from them by local unitary transformations. The proof is obtained by using the certain algebraic properties that Pauli's matrices satisfy. The argument is extended to the three-qubit system. Since all states obtained by local unitary transformations of a maximally entangled state are equally valid entangled states, we thus give the characterizations of maximally entangled states in both the two-qubit and three-qubit systems in terms of the Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0402008
title: Real Observers and the Holographic Principle
authors: M. C. Dance
comments: LaTeX, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402008
abstract: The holographic principle asserts that the observable number of degrees of freedom inside a volume is proportional not to the volume, but to the surface area bounding the volume. There is currently a need to explain the principle in terms of a more fundamental microscopic theory. This paper suggests a potential explanation. This paper suggests that in general, for an observer to observe the r coordinate of an event, the process of making that observation must generate at least as much entropy as the information that the observation gains. Following on from that, this paper sets out a simple argument that leads to the result that observers on the surface of a sphere can observe an amount of information about the enclosed system that is no more than an amount that is proportional to the surface area of the sphere.

id: quant-ph/0402009
title: Transverse confinement in stochastic cooling of trapped atoms
authors: D. Ivanov, S. Wallentowitz
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Journal of Optics B
journal: J. Opt. B 6 (2004) S524- S531
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402009
abstract: Stochastic cooling of trapped atoms is considered for a laser-beam configuration with beam waists equal or smaller than the extent of the atomic cloud. It is shown, that various effects appear due to this transverse confinement, among them heating of transverse kinetic energy. Analytical results of the cooling in dependence on size and location of the laser beam are presented for the case of a non-degenerate vapour.

id: quant-ph/0402010
title: Quantum computing and information extraction for a dynamical quantum system
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Simone Montangero
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Quantum Information Processing, Special Issue devoted to the Physics of Quantum Computing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 3, 273 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402010
abstract: We discuss the simulation of a complex dynamical system, the so-called quantum sawtooth map model, on a quantum computer. We show that a quantum computer can be used to efficiently extract relevant physical information for this model. It is possible to simulate the dynamical localization of classical chaos and extract the localization length of the system with quadratic speed up with respect to any known classical computation. We can also compute with algebraic speed up the diffusion coefficient and the diffusion exponent both in the regimes of Brownian and anomalous diffusion. Finally, we show that it is possible to extract the fidelity of the quantum motion, which measures the stability of the system under perturbations, with exponential speed up.

id: quant-ph/0402011
title: Weak Quantum Theory an the Emergence of Time
authors: H. Roemer
comments: 19 pages
journal: Mind and Matter 2 (2004), 105-125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402011
abstract: We present a scenario, how time could emerge in the framework of Weak Quantum Theory. In a process, similar to the emergence of time in quantum cosmology, time arises after an epistemic split of the unus mundus as a quality of the individual conscious mind. Synchronization with matter and other mental systems is achieved by entanglement correlations. In the course of its operationalization, time loses its original quality of A-time and the B-time of physics as measured by clocks will appear.

id: quant-ph/0402012
title: Thermodynamics of quantum informational systems - Hamiltonian description
authors: Robert Alicki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, many minor changes, added references and one figure
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 11, 205 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402012
abstract: It is often claimed, that from a quantum system of d levels, and entropy S and heat bath of temperature T one can draw kT(ln d -S) amount of work. However, the usual arguments based on Szilard engine are not fully rigorous. Here we prove the formula within Hamiltonian description of drawing work from a quantum system and a heat bath, at a cost of entropy of the system. We base on the derivation of thermodynamical laws and quantities in [R. Alicki, J. Phys. A, 12, L103 (1979)] within a weak coupling limit. Our result provides fully physical scenario for extracting thermodynamical work from quantum correlations [J. Oppenheim et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 180402 (2002)]. We also derive Landauer principle as a consquence of second law within the considered model.

id: quant-ph/0402013
title: Selfsynchronization and dissipation-induced threshold in collective atomic recoil lasing
authors: C. von Cube, S. Slama, D. Kruse, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille, G.R.M. Robb, N. Piovella, R. Bonifacio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402013
abstract: Networks of globally coupled oscillators exhibit phase transitions from incoherent to coherent states. Atoms interacting with the counterpropagating modes of a unidirectionally pumped high-finesse ring cavity form such a globally coupled network. The coupling mechanism is provided by collective atomic recoil lasing (CARL), i.e. cooperative Bragg scattering of laser light at an atomic density grating, which is self-induced by the laser light. Under the rule of an additional friction force, the atomic ensemble is expected to undergo a phase transition to a state of synchronized atomic motion. We present the experimental investigation of this phase transition by studying the threshold behavior of the CARL process.

id: quant-ph/0402014
title: The logic of entanglement
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: 8 pages and loads of pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402014
abstract: We expose the information flow capabilities of pure bipartite entanglement as a theorem -- which embodies the exact statement on the `seemingly acausal flow of information' in protocols such as teleportation. We use this theorem to re-design and analyze known protocols (e.g. logic gate teleportation and entanglement swapping) and show how to produce some new ones (e.g. parallel composition of logic gates). We also show how our results extend to the multipartite case and how they indicate that entanglement can be measured in terms of `information flow capabilities'. Ultimately, we propose a scheme for automated design of protocols involving measurements, local unitary transformations and classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0402015
title: Facts, Values and Quanta
authors: D. M. Appleby
comments: 30 pages, AMS Latex
journal: Found. Phys. 35, 627 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402015
abstract: Quantum mechanics is a fundamentally probabilistic theory (at least so far as the empirical predictions are concerned). It follows that, if one wants to properly understand quantum mechanics, it is essential to clearly understand the meaning of probability statements. The interpretation of probability has excited nearly as much philosophical controversy as the interpretation of quantum mechanics. 20th century physicists have mostly adopted a frequentist conception. In this paper it is argued that we ought, instead, to adopt a logical or Bayesian conception. The paper includes a comparison of the orthodox and Bayesian theories of statistical inference. It concludes with a few remarks concerning the implications for the concept of physical reality.

id: quant-ph/0402016
title: Entanglement and bifurcations in Jahn-Teller models
authors: Andrew P. Hines, Christopher M. Dawson, Ross H. McKenzie, G.J. Milburn
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, comments welcome; 2 references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402016
abstract: We compare and contrast the entanglement in the ground state of two Jahn-Teller models. The $E\otimes\beta$ system models the coupling of a two-level electronic system, or qubit, to a single oscillator mode, while the $E\otimes\epsilon$ models the qubit coupled to two independent, degenerate oscillator modes. In the absence of a transverse magnetic field applied to the qubit, both systems exhibit a degenerate ground state. Whereas there always exists a completely separable ground state in the $E\otimes\beta$ system, the ground states of the $E\otimes\epsilon$ model always exhibit entanglement. For the $E\otimes\beta$ case we aim to clarify results from previous work, alluding to a link between the ground state entanglement characteristics and a bifurcation of a fixed point in the classical analogue. In the $E\otimes\epsilon$ case we make use of an ansatz for the ground state. We compare this ansatz to exact numerical calculations and use it to investigate how the entanglement is shared between the three system degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0402017
title: A practical scheme for error control using feedback
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Charlene Ahn, Kurt Jacobs, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Minor typographic changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052324 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402017
abstract: We describe a scheme for quantum error correction that employs feedback and weak measurement rather than the standard tools of projective measurement and fast controlled unitary gates. The advantage of this scheme over previous protocols (for example Ahn et. al, PRA, 65, 042301 (2001)), is that it requires little side processing while remaining robust to measurement inefficiency, and is therefore considerably more practical. We evaluate the performance of our scheme by simulating the correction of bit-flips. We also consider implementation in a solid-state quantum computation architecture and estimate the maximal error rate which could be corrected with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0402018
title: Post-processing with linear optics for improving the quality of single-photon sources
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Stefan Scheel, Casey R. Myers, Barry C. Sanders, Peter L. Knight, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 6, 93 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402018
abstract: Triggered single-photon sources produce the vacuum state with non-negligible probability, but produce a much smaller multiphoton component. It is therefore reasonable to approximate the output of these photon sources as a mixture of the vacuum and single-photon states. We show that it is impossible to increase the probability for a single photon using linear optics and photodetection on fewer than four modes. This impossibility is due to the incoherence of the inputs; if the inputs were pure-state superpositions, it would be possible to obtain a perfect single-photon output. In the more general case, a chain of beam splitters can be used to increase the probability for a single photon, but at the expense of adding an additional multiphoton component. This improvement is robust against detector inefficiencies, but is degraded by dark counts or multiphoton components in the input.

id: quant-ph/0402019
title: A scheme of measurement of quantum-vacuum geometric phases in the noncoplanar fibre system
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 3 pages, Latex
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics vol.6: L13-L17 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402019
abstract: We study the quantum-vacuum geometric phases resulting from the vacuum fluctuation of photon fields in Tomita-Chiao-Wu noncoplanar curved fibre system, and suggest a scheme to test the potential existence of such vacuum effect. Since the signs of the quantum-vacuum geometric phases of left- and right- handed (LRH) circularly polarized light are just opposite, the total geometric phases at vacuum level is inescapably absent in the fibre experiments performed previously by other authors. By using the present approach where the fibre made of gyroelectric media is employed, the quantum-vacuum geometric phases of LRH light cannot be exactly cancelled, and may therefore be achieved test experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0402020
title: Holographic generation of micro-trap arrays for single atoms
authors: Silvia Bergamini, Benoit Darquie, Matt Jones, Lionel Jacubowiez, Antoine Browaeys, Philippe Grangier
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 21, No. 11, p. 1889-1894 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402020
abstract: We have generated multiple micron-sized optical dipole traps for neutral atoms using holographic techniques with a programmable liquid crystal spatial light modulator. The setup allows the storing of a single atom per trap, and the addressing and manipulation of individual trapping sites.

id: quant-ph/0402021
title: Phase Space Formulation of Quantum Mechanics. Insight into the Measurement Problem
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402021
abstract: A phase space mathematical formulation of quantum mechanical processes accompanied by and ontological interpretation is presented in an axiomatic form. The problem of quantum measurement, including that of quantum state filtering, is treated in detail. Unlike standard quantum theory both quantum and classical measuring device can be accommodated by the present approach to solve the quantum measurement problem

id: quant-ph/0402022
title: Comment on 'Eavesdropping on the ping-pong communication protocol'
authors: Zhanjun Zhang
comments: comment on PRL90(03)157901 by Antoni Wojcik (quant-ph/0211199)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402022
abstract: This is a comment on PRL90(03)157901 by Antoni Wojcik (quant-ph/0211199)

id: quant-ph/0402023
title: Violation of Bell inequality and entanglement of decaying Werner states
authors: Adam Miranowicz
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Letters A 327 (2004) 272-283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402023
abstract: Bell-inequality violation and entanglement, measured by Wootters' concurrence and negativity, of two qubits initially in Werner or Werner-like states coupled to thermal reservoirs are analyzed within the master equation approach. It is shown how this simple decoherence process leads to generation of states manifesting the relativity of two-qubit entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0402024
title: Dissipation in systems of linear and nonlinear quantum scissors
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Wieslaw Leonski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in J. Optics B
journal: J. Optics B 6, S43 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402024
abstract: We analyze truncation of coherent states up to a single-photon Fock state by applying linear quantum scissors, utilizing the projection synthesis in a linear optical system, and nonlinear quantum scissors, implemented by periodically driven cavity with a Kerr medium. Dissipation effects on optical truncation are studied in the Langevin and master equation approaches. Formulas for the fidelity of lossy quantum scissors are found.

id: quant-ph/0402025
title: Decoherence of two maximally entangled qubits in a lossy nonlinear cavity
authors: Adam Miranowicz
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 7909-7922 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402025
abstract: Decoherence effect on quantum entanglement of two optical qubits in a lossy cavity interacting with a nonlinear medium (Kerr nonlinearity) is analyzed. The qubits are assumed to be initially in the maximally entangled states (Bell or Bell-like states) or the maximally entangled mixed states, on the example of Werner and Werner-like states. Two kinds of measures of the entanglement are considered: the concurrence to describe a decay of the entanglement of formation of the qubits, and the negativity to determine a decay of the entanglement cost under positive-partial-transpose-preserving operations. It is observed that the Kerr nonlinearity, in the discussed decoherence model, does not affect the entanglement of the qubits initially in the Bell or Werner states, although the evolution of the qubits can depend on this nonlinearity explicitly. However, it is shown that for the initial Bell-like state and the corresponding Werner-like state, the loss of the entanglement can be periodically reduced by inserting the Kerr nonlinearity in the lossy cavity. Moreover, the relativity of the entanglement measures is demonstrated, to our knowledge for the first time, as a result of a physical process.

id: quant-ph/0402026
title: The C Operator in PT-Symmetric Quantum Theories
authors: Carl M. Bender, Joachim Brod, Andre Refig, Moritz Reuter
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 10139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402026
abstract: The Hamiltonian H specifies the energy levels and the time evolution of a quantum theory. It is an axiom of quantum mechanics that H be Hermitian because Hermiticity guarantees that the energy spectrum is real and that the time evolution is unitary (probability preserving). This paper investigates an alternative way to construct quantum theories in which the conventional requirement of Hermiticity (combined transpose and complex conjugate) is replaced by the more physically transparent condition of space-time reflection (PT) symmetry. It is shown that if the PT symmetry of a Hamiltonian H is not broken, then the spectrum of H is real. Examples of PT-symmetric non-Hermitian quantum-mechanical Hamiltonians are H=p^2+ix^3 and H=p^2-x^4. The crucial question is whether PT-symmetric Hamiltonians specify physically acceptable quantum theories in which the norms of states are positive and the time evolution is unitary. The answer is that a Hamiltonian that has an unbroken PT symmetry also possesses a physical symmetry represented by a linear operator called C. Using C it is shown how to construct an inner product whose associated norm is positive definite. The result is a new class of fully consistent complex quantum theories. Observables are defined, probabilities are positive, and the dynamics is governed by unitary time evolution. After a review of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics, new results are presented here in which the C operator is calculated perturbatively in quantum mechanical theories having several degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0402027
title: The general boson normal ordering problem
authors: Pawel Blasiak, Karol A. Penson, Allan I. Solomon
comments: 7 pages, 18 references
journal: Physics Letters A, 309, 198 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402027
abstract: We solve the boson normal ordering problem for F[(a*)^r a^s], with r,s positive integers, where a* and a are boson creation and annihilation operators satisfying [a,a*]=1. That is, we provide exact and explicit expressions for the normal form wherein all a's are to the right. The solution involves integer sequences of numbers which are generalizations of the conventional Bell and Stirling numbers whose values they assume for r=s=1. A comprehensive theory of such generalized combinatorial numbers is given including closed-form expressions (extended Dobinski-type formulas)and generating functions. These last are special expectation values in boson coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0402028
title: External Time-Varying Fields and Electron Coherence
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, L. H. Ford
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 92 (2004) 250402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402028
abstract: The effect of time-varying electromagnetic fields on electron coherence is investigated. A sinusoidal electromagnetic field produces a time varying Aharonov-Bohm phase. In a measurement of the interference pattern which averages over this phase, the effect is a loss of contrast. This is effectively a form of decoherence. We calculate the magnitude of this effect for various electromagnetic field configurations. The result seems to be sufficiently large to be observable.

id: quant-ph/0402029
title: Spontaneous emission of homogeneous broadening molecules on a micro-droplet's surface and local-field correction
authors: Yun-Jie Xia, Guang-Can Guo, P. T. Leung
comments: 7 pages with 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402029
abstract: We consider the spontaneous emission of a broadening molecule on the surface of a micro-sphere in this paper. The density of states for the micro-cavity is derived from quasi-normal models(QNM's) expansion of the correlation functions of electromagnetic fields. Through detailed analysis we show that only weak coupling between a broadening atom(molecule) and the electromagnetic fields exists in a dielectric sphere cavity whether the sphere is small or big. From these results we find the explicit expression of the spontaneous emission decay rate for a surfactant broadening molecule on the surface of a micro-droplet with radius $a$, in which only $1/a$ and $1/a^{2}$ components exhibit. Then we apply this expression to a real experiment and obtain a consistent result with the experiment. We also show that the real-cavity model of local field correction is accurate, and reveal that the local-field correction factor can be measured precisely and easily by fluorescence experiments of surfactant molecules. Moreover, the spontaneous decay of a surfactant molecular on droplet's surface is sensitive to the atomic broadening, so that the fluorescence experiment in a micro-sphere cavity can be used to estimate the radiative broadening.

id: quant-ph/0402030
title: Relativistic scattering with a singular potential in the Dirac equation
authors: M Loewe, S Mendizabal
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402030
abstract: An elementary treatment of the Dirac equation in the presence of a three dimensional spherically symmetric delta potential is presented. We show how to calculate the cross section using the relativistic wave expansion method for a one delta potential and two concentric delta potentials. We compare our results with the cross section calculated in the Born approximation.

id: quant-ph/0402031
title: Generation of atom-photon entangled states in atomic Bose-Einstein condensate via electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Lan Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A68 (2003) 043606
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402031
abstract: In this paper, we present a method to generate continuous-variable-type entangled states between photons and atoms in atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). The proposed method involves an atomic BEC with three internal states, a weak quantized probe laser and a strong classical coupling laser, which form a three-level Lambda-shaped BEC system. We consider a situation where the BEC is in electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) with the coupling laser being much stronger than the probe laser. In this case, the upper and intermediate levels are unpopulated, so that their adiabatic elimination enables an effective two-mode model involving only the atomic field at the lowest internal level and the quantized probe laser field. Atom-photon quantum entanglement is created through laser-atom and inter-atomic interactions, and two-photon detuning. We show how to generate atom-photon entangled coherent states and entangled states between photon (atom) coherent states and atom-(photon-) macroscopic quantum superposition (MQS) states, and between photon-MQS and atom-MQS states.

id: quant-ph/0402032
title: Bell Measurement and Local Measurement in the Modified Lo-Chau Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: W.-Y. Hwang
comments: Minor corrections, 5 pages, RevTex
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 47, 409 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402032
abstract: We clarify the argument on the how (nonlocal) degenerate Bell measurement can be replaced by local measurements in the modified Lo-Chau quantum key distribution protocol. Discussing security criterion for users, we describe how eavesdropper's refined information on the final state is not helpful. We argue that current discussions on the equivalence of the Bell and the local measurements are not clear. We show how the problem of equivalence can be resolved using the fact that eavesdropper's refined information is not helpful for her.

id: quant-ph/0402033
title: Quantum Theory of Fiber Bragg Grating Solitons
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai
comments: subbmit to J. Opt. B: Special Issue on Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics
journal: J. Opt. B, 6, S638 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402033
abstract: Following the pioneering work of Prof. Hermann A. Haus, a general quantum theory for bi-directional nonlinear optical pulse propagation problems is developed and applied to study the quantum properties of fiber Bragg grating solitons. Fiber Bragg grating solitons are found to be automatically amplitude squeezed after passing through the grating and the squeezing ratio saturates after a certain grating length. The optimal squeezing ratio occurs when the pulse energy is slightly above the fundamental soliton energy. One can also compress the soliton pulsewidth and enhance the squeezing simultaneously by using an apodized grating, as long as the solitons evolve adiabatically.

id: quant-ph/0402034
title: The Correlations of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States Described by Hilbert-Schmidt decomposition
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: to be published in Foundations of Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402034
abstract: Using simple quantum analysis we describe the correlations of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states by the use of Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) representation. Our conclusion is that while these states disprove local-realism they do not prove any nonlocality property.

id: quant-ph/0402035
title: p-Mechanics and Field Theory
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 12 pages (AMS-LaTeX); v2: some misprints are corrected; v3: many minor corrections suggested by a referee
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 56 (2005) 161-174
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402035
abstract: The orbit method of Kirillov is used to derive the p-mechanical brackets [math-ph/0007030, quant-ph/0212101]. They generate the quantum (Moyal) and classic (Poisson) brackets on respective orbits corresponding to representations of the Heisenberg group. The extension of p-mechanics to field theory is made through the De Donder--Weyl Hamiltonian formulation. The principal step is the substitution of the Heisenberg group with Galilean. Keywords: Classic and quantum mechanics, Moyal brackets, Poisson brackets, commutator, Heisenberg group, orbit method, deformation quantisation, representation theory, De Donder--Weyl field theory, Galilean group, Clifford algebra, conformal M\"obius transformation, Dirac operator.

id: quant-ph/0402036
title: Entanglement induced by nonadiabatic chaos
authors: Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 012313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402036
abstract: We investigate entanglement between electronic and nuclear degrees of freedom for a model nonadiabatic system. We find that entanglement (measured by the von Neumann entropy of the subsystem for the eigenstates) is large in a statistical sense when the system shows ``nonadiabatic chaos'' behavior which was found in our previous work [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 63}, 066221 (2001)]. We also discuss non-statistical behavior of the eigenstates for the regular cases.

id: quant-ph/0402037
title: Proposed magneto-electrostatic ring trap for neutral atoms
authors: Asa Hopkins, Benjamin Lev, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; revised, including new calculations and further discussion
journal: Physical Review A 70, 053616 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402037
abstract: We propose a novel trap for confining cold neutral atoms in a microscopic ring using a magneto-electrostatic potential. The trapping potential is derived from a combination of a repulsive magnetic field from a hard drive atom mirror and the attractive potential produced by a charged disk patterned on the hard drive surface. We calculate a trap frequency of [29.7, 42.6, 62.8] kHz and a depth of [16.1, 21.8, 21.8] MHz for [133Cs, 87Rb, 40K], and discuss a simple loading scheme and a method for fabrication. This device provides a one-dimensional potential in a ring geometry that may be of interest to the study of trapped quantum degenerate one-dimensional gases.

id: quant-ph/0402038
title: Quantum advantage does not survive in the presence of a corrupt source: Optimal strategies in simultaneous move games
authors: Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Junichi Shimamura, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 325, 104-111 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402038
abstract: Effects of a corrupt source on the dynamics of simultaneous move strategic games are analyzed both for classical and quantum settings. The corruption rate dependent changes in the payoffs and strategies of the players are observed. It is shown that there is a critical corruption rate at which the players lose their quantum advantage, and that the classical strategies are more robust to the corruption in the source. Moreover, it is understood that the information on the corruption rate of the source may help the players choose their optimal strategy for resolving the dilemma and increase their payoffs. The study is carried out in two different corruption scenarios for Prisoner's Dilemma, Samaritan's Dilemma, and Battle of Sexes.

id: quant-ph/0402039
title: Two-Mode Squeezed States and Their Superposition in the Motion of Two Trapped Ions
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Le-Man Kuang, Ke-Lin Gao
comments: 11pages, no figures
journal: published in Physics Letters A 300(2002)427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402039
abstract: We propose a method to create two-mode squeezed states and their superposition in the center-of-mass mode and breathing mode of two-trapped ions. Each ion is illuminated simultaneously by two standing waves. One of the fields is tuned to excite resonantly and simultaneously both upper sidebands of the two normal modes, while the other field tuned to the corresponding lower sidebands.

id: quant-ph/0402040
title: Experimental demonstration of entanglement assisted coding using a two-mode squeezed vacuum state
authors: Jun Mizuno, Kentaro Wakui, Akira Furusawa, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 71, 012304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402040
abstract: We have experimentally realized the scheme initially proposed as quantum dense coding with continuous variables [Ban, J. Opt. B \textbf{1}, L9 (1999), and Braunstein and Kimble, \pra\textbf{61}, 042302 (2000)]. In our experiment, a pair of EPR (Einstein-Podolski-Rosen) beams is generated from two independent squeezed vacua. After adding two-quadrature signal to one of the EPR beams, two squeezed beams that contain the signal were recovered. Although our squeezing level is not sufficient to demonstrate the channel capacity gain over the Holevo limit of a single-mode channel without entanglement, our channel is superior to conventional channels such as coherent and squeezing channels. In addition, optical addition and subtraction processes demonstrated are elementary operations of universal quantum information processing on continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0402041
title: Nonlinear optical properties of electromagnetically-induced-transparency medium interacting with two quantized fields
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Guang-Hong Chen, Yong-Shi Wu
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Optics B5 (2003) 341-348
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402041
abstract: We study linear and nonlinear optical properties of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium interacting with two quantized laser fields for adiabatic EIT case. We show that EIT medium exhibits normal dispersion. Kerr and higher order nonlinear refractive-index coefficients are also calculated in a completely analytical form. It is indicated that EIT medium exhibits giant resonantly enhanced nonlinearities. We discuss the response of the EIT medium to nonclassical light fields and find that the polarization vanishes when the probe laser is initially in a nonclassical state of no single-photon coherence.

id: quant-ph/0402042
title: Observation of Antinormally Ordered Hanbury-Brown--Twiss Correlations
authors: Koji Usami, Yoshihiro Nambu, Bao-Sen Shi, Akihisa Tomita, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 113601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402042
abstract: We have measured antinormally ordered Hanbury-Brown--Twiss correlations for coherent states of electromagnetic field by using stimulated parametric down-conversion process. Photons were detected by stimulated emission, rather than by absorption, so that the detection responded not only to actual photons but also to zero-point fluctuations via spontaneous emission. The observed correlations were distinct from normally ordered ones as they showed excess positive correlations, i.e., photon bunching effects, which arose from the thermal nature of zero-point fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0402043
title: Antinormally Ordered Photodetection of Continuous-mode Field
authors: Koji Usami, Akihisa Tomita, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 11 pages, 1 figures, to appear in the special issue of Int. J. Quant. Info. for the NQSI workshop in Kyoto
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 2,101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402043
abstract: When the electromagnetic field is detected by stimulated emission, rather than by absorption, antinormally ordered photodetection can be realized. One of the distinct features of this photodetection scheme is its sensitivity to zero-point fluctuation due to the existence of the spontaneous emission. We have recently succeeded in experimentally demonstrating the antinormally ordered photodetection by exploiting nondegenerate stimulated parametric down-conversion process. To properly account for the experiment, the detection process needs to be treated with time-dependent and continuous-mode operators because of the broadband nature of the parametric down-conversion process and the wide spectrum of the pump that we used. Here, we theoretically analyze the antinormally ordered intensity correlation of the continuous-mode fields by pursuing the detection process in the Heisenberg picture. It is shown that the excess positive correlation due to zero-point fluctuation reduces because of the frequency-distinguishability of the two emitted photon pairs.

id: quant-ph/0402044
title: Quantum Measurements and Information Restrictions in Algebraic QM
authors: S.Mayburov
comments: 10 pages, Proc of Vienna Quantum Structures Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402044
abstract: It's argued that Information-Theoretical restrictions for the systems selfdescription are important for Quantum Measurement Problem. They are described by O information system restricted states R formalism by Breuer and can be obtained also in Algebraic QM considering Segal Algebra of O observables. From Segal theorem it's shown that R describes the random measurement outcomes in the individual events.

id: quant-ph/0402045
title: A three state invariant
authors: M. Fannes D. Vanpeteghem
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402045
abstract: For triples of probability measures, pure quantum states and mixed quantum states we obtain the exact constraints on the fidelities of pairs in the sequence. We show that it is impossible to decide between a quantum model, either pure or mixed, and a classical model on the basis of the fidelities alone. Next, we introduce a quantum three state invariant called phase and show that any sequence of pure quantum states is uniquely reconstructible given the fidelities and phases.

id: quant-ph/0402046
title: Note on the Dirac Field in Real Domain
authors: Srecko Botric
comments: 8 pages, 36 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402046
abstract: Sufficient conditions for linear electrodynamics with real Dirac field are derived.

id: quant-ph/0402047
title: Holism, Physical Theories and Quantum Mechanics
authors: M.P. Seevinck
comments: Published version
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys 35B, 693 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402047
abstract: Motivated by the question what it is that makes quantum mechanics a holistic theory (if so), I try to define for general physical theories what we mean by `holism'. For this purpose I propose an epistemological criterion to decide whether or not a physical theory is holistic, namely: a physical theory is holistic if and only if it is impossible in principle to infer the global properties, as assigned in the theory, by local resources available to an agent. I propose that these resources include at least all local operations and classical communication. This approach is contrasted with the well-known approaches to holism in terms of supervenience. The criterion for holism proposed here involves a shift in emphasis from ontology to epistemology. I apply this epistemological criterion to classical physics and Bohmian mechanics as represented on a phase and configuration space respectively, and for quantum mechanics (in the orthodox interpretation) using the formalism of general quantum operations as completely positive trace non-increasing maps. Furthermore, I provide an interesting example from which one can conclude that quantum mechanics is holistic in the above mentioned sense, although, perhaps surprisingly, no entanglement is needed.

id: quant-ph/0402048
title: A Bell-type test of energy-time entangled qutrits
authors: R.T.Thew, A.Acin, H.Zbinden, N.Gisin
comments: replaced lost acknowledements
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol 93, 010503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402048
abstract: We have performed a Bell-type test for energy-time entangled qutrits. A method of inferring the Bell violation in terms of an associated interference visibility is derived. Using this scheme we obtained a Bell value of $2.784 \pm 0.023$, representing a violation of $34 \sigma$ above the limit for local variables. The scheme has been developed for use at telecom wavelengths and using proven long distance quantum communication architecture to optimize the utility of this high dimensional entanglement resource.

id: quant-ph/0402049
title: Quasi dynamical symmetry in an interacting boson model phase transition
authors: David J. Rowe
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.93:122502,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402049
abstract: The oft-observed persistence of symmetry properties in the face of strong symmetry-breaking interactions is examined in the SO(5)-invariant interacting boson model. This model exhibits a transition between two phases associated with U(5) and O(6) symmetries, respectively, as the value of a control parameter progresses from 0 to 1. The remarkable fact is that, for intermediate values of the control parameter, the model states exhibit the characteristics of its closest symmetry limit for all but a relatively narrow transition region that becomes progressively narrower as the particle number of the model increases. This phenomenon is explained in terms of quasi-dynamical symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0402050
title: Weak Measurements with Arbitrary Pointer States
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004) 120402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402050
abstract: The exact conditions on valid pointer states for weak measurements are derived. It is demonstrated that weak measurements can be performed with any pointer state with vanishing probability current density. This condition is found both for weak measurements of noncommuting observables and for $c$-number observables. In addition, the interaction between pointer and object must be sufficiently weak. There is no restriction on the purity of the pointer state. For example, a thermal pointer state is fully valid.

id: quant-ph/0402051
title: Time Reversal and n-qubit Canonical Decompositions
authors: Stephen S. Bullock, Gavin K. Brennen, Dianne P. O'Leary
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures; v2 (17pp.): major revision, new abstract, introduction, expanded bibliography
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, volume 46, 062104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402051
abstract: For n an even number of qubits and v a unitary evolution, a matrix decomposition v=k1 a k2 of the unitary group is explicitly computable and allows for study of the dynamics of the concurrence entanglement monotone. The side factors k1 and k2 of this Concurrence Canonical Decomposition (CCD) are concurrence symmetries, so the dynamics reduce to consideration of the a factor. In this work, we provide an explicit numerical algorithm computing v=k1 a k2 for n odd. Further, in the odd case we lift the monotone to a two-argument function, allowing for a theory of concurrence dynamics in odd qubits. The generalization may also be studied using the CCD, leading again to maximal concurrence capacity for most unitaries. The key technique is to consider the spin-flip as a time reversal symmetry operator in Wigner's axiomatization; the original CCD derivation may be restated entirely in terms of this time reversal. En route, we observe a Kramers' nondegeneracy: the existence of a nondegenerate eigenstate of any time reversal symmetric n-qubit Hamiltonian demands (i) n even and (ii) maximal concurrence of said eigenstate. We provide examples of how to apply this work to study the kinematics and dynamics of entanglement in spin chain Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0402052
title: The ping-pong protocol can be attacked without eavesdropping
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: PACS: 03.67.Hk
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 109801(2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402052
abstract: Attack the ping-pong protocol without eavesdropping.

id: quant-ph/0402053
title: Resilience of multi-photon entanglement under losses
authors: G.A. Durkin, C. Simon, J. Eisert, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, title changed, minor typographic errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402053
abstract: We analyze the resilience under photon loss of the bi-partite entanglement present in multi-photon states produced by parametric down-conversion. The quantification of the entanglement is made possible by a symmetry of the states that persists even under polarization-independent losses. We examine the approach of the states to the set of states with a positive partial transpose as losses increase, and calculate the relative entropy of entanglement. We find that some bi-partite distillable entanglement persists for arbitrarily high losses.

id: quant-ph/0402054
title: Further quantum-gate methods using selective displacement of trapped ions
authors: Marek Sasura, Andrew Steane
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402054
abstract: We consider quantum gates for trapped ions using state-selective displacement of the ions. We generalize earlier work in order to treat arbitrary separations between the traps. This requires the impact of anharmonicity arising from the Coulomb interaction to be estimated. We show that its effects are always small enough to allow high fidelity. In particular, the method can be applied to two ions in the same trap. We also show that gates between non-neighbour ions, and hence a Toffoli (three-qubit controlled-NOT) gate, can be achieved. We discuss how the gate can be applied to logical qubits encoded in the decoherence-free-subspace {|01>,|10>}, where each pair of ions stores a single qubit. We also suggest alternatives to the spin-echo method to suppress unwanted terms in the evolution.

id: quant-ph/0402055
title: Convex Hulls of Varieties and Entanglement Measures Based on the Roof Construction
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, uses psfrag and amsmath. Fixed conditions for existence of roof
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 7 (3), pp.209-227 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402055
abstract: In this paper we study the problem of calculating the convex hull of certain affine algebraic varieties. As we explain, the motivation for considering this problem is that certain pure-state measures of quantum entanglement, which we call polynomial entanglement measures, can be represented as affine algebraic varieties. We consider the evaluation of certain mixed-state extensions of these polynomial entanglement measures, namely convex and concave roofs. We show that the evaluation of a roof-based mixed-state extension is equivalent to calculating a hyperplane which is multiply tangent to the variety in a number of places equal to the number of terms in an optimal decomposition for the measure. In this way we provide an implicit representation of optimal decompositions for mixed-state entanglement measures based on the roof construction.

id: quant-ph/0402056
title: Noiseless subsystems and the structure of the commutant in quantum error correction
authors: J.A. Holbrook, D.W. Kribs, R. Laflamme
comments: 39 pages, Quantum Information Processing, to appear
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc., 2 (2004), 381-419.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402056
abstract: The effect of noise on a quantum system can be described by a set of operators obtained from the interaction Hamiltonian. Recently it has been shown that generalized quantum error correcting codes can be derived by studying the algebra of this set of operators. This led to the discovery of noiseless subsystems. They are described by a set of operators obtained from the commutant of the noise generators. In this paper we derive a general method to compute the structure of this commutant in the case of unital noise.

id: quant-ph/0402057
title: Analysis of Quantum Light Memory in Atomic Systems (Final)
authors: Hassan Kaatuzian, Ali Rostami, Ahmad Ajdarzadeh Oskouei
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) 157-167, No.6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402057
abstract: We extend the theory of quantum light memory in atomic ensemble of Lambda type atoms with considering lower levels coherence decay rate and one and two-photon detunings from resonances in low intensity and adiabatic passage limit. We obtain that with considering these parameters, that there will be a considerable decay of probe pulse and stored information; also, we obtain that the group velocity of probe (light) pulse and its amplitude does not tend to zero by turning off the control field. We propose a method to keep the probe pulse in small values in turn off time of control field and to reduce the loss of the stored probe pulse. In addition, we obtain that in the Off-resonance case there will be a considerable distortion of the output light pulse that causes in loss of the stored information, then we present limitations for detunings and therefore for bandwidths of practical lasers also limitations for maximum storage time to have negligible distortion of stored information. We finally present the numerical calculations and compare them with analytical results.

id: quant-ph/0402058
title: Generation of entangled squeezed states in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Le-Man Kuang, Ai-Hua Zeng, Zhen-Hua Kuang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 319 (2003) 24-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402058
abstract: A method for producing entangled squeezed states (ESSs) for atomic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) is proposed by using a BEC with three internal states and two classical laser beams. We show that it is possible to generate two-state and multi-state ESSs under certain circumstances.

id: quant-ph/0402059
title: Nonmaximally-entangled-state quantum photolithography
authors: Yan-Hui Wang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5 (2003) 405-408
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402059
abstract: Many previous works on quantum photolithography are based on maximally-entangled states (MES). In this paper, we generalize the MES quantum photolithography to the case where two light beams share a $N$-photon nonmaximally-entangled state. we investigate the correlations between quantum entanglement and quantum photolithography. It is shown that for nonlocal entanglement between the two light beams the amplitude of the deposition rate can be changed through varying the degree of entanglement described by an entanglement angle while the resolution remains unchanged, and found that for local entanglement between the two light beams the effective Rayleigh resolution of quantum photolithography can be resonantly enhanced.

id: quant-ph/0402060
title: Non stabilizer Clifford codes with qupits
authors: Hagiwara Manabu, Hideki Imai
comments: 6 pages, accepted to MS+S2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402060
abstract: Clifford codes can be understood as a generalization of stabilizer codes. To show the existence of a true Clifford code which is better than any stabilizer code is a well known open problem in the theory of Clifford codes. One of the main difficulties in solving this problem is that we know only about 110 examples of codes which are Clifford but not stabilizer codes. In this paper, we obtain infinite examples of Clifford codes which are not stabilizer codes. We expect our examples to be useful in the study of Clifford codes.

id: quant-ph/0402061
title: Phase Space Formulation of Filtering. Insight into the Wave-Particle Duality
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402061
abstract: A phase space formulation of the filtering process upon an incident quantum state is developed. This formulation can explain the results of both quantum interference and delayed-choice experiments without making use of the controversial wave-particle duality. Quantum particles are seen as localized and indivisible concentrations of energy and/or mass, their probability amplitude in phase space being described by the Wigner distribution function. The wave or particle nature appears in experiments in which the interference term of the Wigner distribution function is present or absent, respectively, the filtering devices that modify the quantum wavefunction throughout the set-up, from its generation to its final detection, being responsible for the modification of the Wigner distribution function.

id: quant-ph/0402062
title: Temporal Fluctuations of Continuous-Time Quantum Random Walks on Circles
authors: Norio Inui, Koichiro Kasahara, Yoshinao Konishi, Norio Konno
comments: 11 pages, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402062
abstract: This work deals with both instantaneous uniform mixing property and temporal standard deviation for continuous-time quantum random walks on circles in order to study their fluctuations comparing with discrete-time quantum random walks, and continuous- and discrete-time classical random walks.

id: quant-ph/0402063
title: A Model for Quantum Jumps in Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy
authors: G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 337 161-165 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402063
abstract: We propose a simple model which describes the statistical properties of quantum jumps in a single-spin measurement using the oscillating cantilever-driven adiabatic reversals technique in magnetic resonance force microscopy. Our computer simulations based on this model predict the average time interval between two consecutive quantum jumps and the correlation time to be proportional to the characteristic time of the magnetic noise and inversely proportional to the square of the magnetic noise amplitude.

id: quant-ph/0402064
title: Squeezed light at sideband frequencies below 100 kHz from a single OPA
authors: R. Schnabel, H. Vahlbruch, A. Franzen, S. Chelkowski, N. Grosse, H.-A. Bachor, W. P. Bowen, P. K. Lam, K. Danzmann
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Communications 240 (2004) 185-190
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402064
abstract: Quantum noise of the electromagnetic field is one of the limiting noise sources in interferometric gravitational wave detectors. Shifting the spectrum of squeezed vacuum states downwards into the acoustic band of gravitational wave detectors is therefore of challenging demand to quantum optics experiments. We demonstrate a system that produces nonclassical continuous variable states of light that are squeezed at sideband frequencies below 100 kHz. A single optical parametric amplifier (OPA) is used in an optical noise cancellation scheme providing squeezed vacuum states with coherent bright phase modulation sidebands at higher frequencies. The system has been stably locked for half an hour limited by thermal stability of our laboratory.

id: quant-ph/0402065
title: Collective excitations in circular atomic configurations, and single-photon traps
authors: Hanno Hammer
comments: Shortened version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 023803 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402065
abstract: Correlated excitations in a plane circular configuration of identical atoms with parallel dipole moments are investigated. The collective energy eigenstates, their level shifts and decay rates are computed utilizing a decomposition of the atomic state space into carrier spaces for the irreducible representations of the symmetry group $\ZZ_N$ of the circle. It is shown that the index $p$ of these representations can be used as a quantum number analogously to the orbital angular momentum quantum number $l$ in hydrogen-like systems. Just as the hydrogen s-states are the only electronic wave functions which can occupy the central region of the Coulomb potential, the quasi-particle corresponding to a collective excitation of the atoms in the circle can occupy the central atom only for vanishing $\ZZ_N$ quantum number $p$. If a central atom is present, the $p=0$ state splits into two and shows level-crossing at certain radii; in the regions between these radii, damped Rabi oscillations between two "extreme" $p=0$ configurations occur. The physical mechanisms behind super- and subradiance at a given radius and the divergence of the level shifts at small interatomic distances are discussed. It is shown that, beyond a certain critical number of atoms in the circle, the lifetime of the maximally subradiant state increases exponentially with the number of atoms in the configuration, making the system a natural candidate for a {\it single-photon trap}.

id: quant-ph/0402066
title: Stabilization of Ultracold Molecules Using Optimal Control Theory
authors: Christiane P. Koch, Jos P. Palao, Ronnie Kosloff, Fran?oise Masnou-Seeuws
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 013402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402066
abstract: In recent experiments on ultracold matter, molecules have been produced from ultracold atoms by photoassociation, Feshbach resonances, and three-body recombination. The created molecules are translationally cold, but vibrationally highly excited. This will eventually lead them to be lost from the trap due to collisions. We propose shaped laser pulses to transfer these highly excited molecules to their ground vibrational level. Optimal control theory is employed to find the light field that will carry out this task with minimum intensity. We present results for the sodium dimer. The final target can be reached to within 99% if the initial guess field is physically motivated. We find that the optimal fields contain the transition frequencies required by a good Franck-Condon pumping scheme. The analysis is able to identify the ranges of intensity and pulse duration which are able to achieve this task before other competing process take place. Such a scheme could produce stable ultracold molecular samples or even stable molecular Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: quant-ph/0402067
title: Quantum error correction for continuously detected errors with any number of error channels per qubit
authors: Charlene Ahn, H. M. Wiseman, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 024302(BR) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402067
abstract: It was shown by Ahn, Wiseman, and Milburn [PRA {\bf 67}, 052310 (2003)] that feedback control could be used as a quantum error correction process for errors induced by weak continuous measurement, given one perfectly measured error channel per qubit. Here we point out that this method can be easily extended to an arbitrary number of error channels per qubit. We show that the feedback protocols generated by our method encode $n-2$ logical qubits in $n$ physical qubits, thus requiring just one more physical qubit than in the previous case.

id: quant-ph/0402068
title: EPR-Bohm experiment, interference of probabilities, imprecision of time
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: We analyze time structure of conditioning in the EPR-Bohm experiment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402068
abstract: We demonstrate that the EPR-Bohm probabilities can be easily obtained in the classical (but contextual) probabilistic framework by using the formula of interference of probabilities. From this point of view the EPR-Bell experiment is just an experiment on interference of probabilities. We analyse the time structure of contextuality in the EPR-Bohm experiment. The conclusion is that quantum mechanics does not contradict to a local realistic model in which probabilities are calculated as averages over conditionings/measurements for pairs of instances of time $t_1< t_2.$ If we restrict our consideration only to simultaneous measurements at the fixed instance of time $t$ we would get contradiction with Bell's theorem. One of implications of this fact might be the impossibility to define instances of {\it time with absolute precision} on the level of the contextual microscopic realistic model.

id: quant-ph/0402069
title: Schrodinger-Newton wave mechanics. The model
authors: Janina Marciak-Kozlowska, Miroslaw Kozlowski
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402069
abstract: In the paper the Schrodinger equation (SE) with gravity term is developed and discussed. It is shown that the modified SE is valid for particles with mass m<M_P, M_P is the Planck mass, and contains the part which, we argue describes the pilot wave. For m \to M_P the modified SE has the solution with oscillatory term, i.e. strings. Key words: Schrodinger-Newton equation; Planck time; pilot wave.

id: quant-ph/0402070
title: Magneto-optical rotation and cross-phase modulation via coherently driven tripod atoms
authors: David Petrosyan, Yuri P. Malakyan
comments: Corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 023822 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402070
abstract: We study the interaction of a weak probe field, having two orthogonally polarized components, with an optically dense medium of four-level atoms in a tripod configuration. In the presence of a coherent driving laser, electromagnetically induced transparency is attained in the medium, dramatically enhancing its linear as well as nonlinear dispersion while simultaneously suppressing the probe field absorption. We present the semiclassical and fully quantum analysis of the system. We propose an experimentally feasible setup that can induce large Faraday rotation of the probe field polarization and therefore be used for ultra-sensitive optical magnetometry. We then study the Kerr nonlinear coupling between the two components of the probe, demonstrating a novel regime of symmetric, extremely efficient cross-phase modulation, capable of fully entangling two single-photon pulses. This scheme may thus pave the way to photon-based quantum information applications, such as deterministic all-optical quantum computation, dense coding and teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0402071
title: Quantum cloning in spin networks
authors: G. De Chiara, R. Fazio, C. Macchiavello, S. Montangero, G. M. Palma
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections, references updated, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402071
abstract: We introduce an approach to quantum cloning based on spin networks and we demonstrate that phase covariant cloning can be realized using no external control but only with a proper design of the Hamiltonian of the system. In the 1 -> 2 cloning we find that the XY model saturates the value for the fidelity of the optimal cloner and gives values comparable to it in the genera N -> M case. We finally discuss the effect of external noise. Our protocol is much more robust to decoherence than a conventional procedure based on quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0402072
title: Stern-Gerlach Experiment and Bohm Limit
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402072
abstract: Stern-Gerlach experiment is a paradigm of measurement theory in quantum mechanics. Notwithstanding several analysis given in literature, no clear understanding of the apparent collapse has been given so far. Indeed, one can imagine a Stern-Gerlach device where all environmental effects are removed and ask the question on how the measurement goes on. In this letter we will prove that a the Stern-Gerlach device behaves as a true measurement apparatus, as expected by the Copenaghen interpretation, by the Ehrenfest theorem. In this way we recover, by other means, a limit on the Stern-Gerlach device, given by Bohm, based on scrambling of phases due to a large oscillation frequency.

id: quant-ph/0402073
title: Two qubits entanglement dynamics in a symmetry-broken environment
authors: Marco Lucamarini, Simone Paganelli, Stefano Mancini
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 2345 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402073
abstract: We study the temporal evolution of entanglement pertaining to two qubits interacting with a thermal bath. In particular we consider the simplest nontrivial spin bath models where symmetry breaking occurs and treat them by mean field approximation. We analytically find decoherence free entangled states as well as entangled states with an exponential decay of the quantum correlation at finite temperature.

id: quant-ph/0402074
title: Entanglement Preserving in Quantum Copying of Three-qubit Entangled State
authors: Zhao-Yang Tong, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 38 (2002) 541-546
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402074
abstract: We study the degree to which quantum entanglement survives when a three-qubit entangled state is copied by using local and non-local processes, respectively, and investigate iterating quantum copying for the three-qubit system. There may exist inter-three-qubit entanglement and inter-two-qubit entanglement for the three-qubit system. We show that both local and non-local copying processes degrade quantum entanglement in the three-particle system due to a residual correlation between the copied output and the copying machine. We also show that the inter-two-qubit entanglement is preserved better than the inter-three-qubit entanglement in the local cloning process. We find that non-local cloning is much more efficient than the local copying for broadcasting entanglement, and output state via non-local cloning exhibits the fidelity better than local cloning.

id: quant-ph/0402075
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency in multi-level cascade scheme of cold rubidium atoms
authors: J. Wang, L. B. Kong, K. J. Jiang, K. Li, X. H. Tu, H. W. Xiong, Yifu Zhu, M. S. Zhan
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 328, 437(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402075
abstract: We report an experimental investigation of electromagnetically induced transparency in a multi-level cascade system of cold atoms. The absorption spectral profiles of the probe light in the multi-level cascade system were observed in cold Rb-85 atoms confined in a magneto-optical trap, and the dependence of the spectral profile on the intensity of the coupling laser was investigated. The experimental measurements agree with the theoretical calculations based on the density matrix equations of the rubidium cascade system.

id: quant-ph/0402076
title: There, and Back Again: Quantum Theory and Global Optimisation
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 6 pages; RevTex 4; minor change to major result; major change to minor result
journal: Proceedings of Sixteenth International Symposium on Mathematical Theory of Networks and Systems (MTNS2004), Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium, 5-9 July 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402076
abstract: We consider a problem in quantum theory that can be formulated as an optimisation problem and present a global optimisation algorithm for solving it, the foundation of which relies in turn on a theorem from quantum theory. To wit, we consider the maximal output purity $\nu_q$ of a quantum channel as measured by Schatten $q$-norms, for integer $q$. This quantity is of fundamental importance in the study of quantum channel capacities in quantum information theory. To calculate $\nu_q$ one has to solve a non-convex optimisation problem that typically exhibits local optima. We show that this particular problem can be approximated to arbitrary precision by an eigenvalue problem over a larger matrix space, thereby circumventing the problem of local optima. The mathematical proof behind this algorithm relies on the Quantum de Finetti theorem, which is a theorem used in the study of the foundations of quantum theory. We expect that the approach presented here can be generalised and will turn out to be applicable to a larger class of global optimisation problems. We also present some preliminary numerical results, showing that, at least for small problem sizes, the present approach is practically realisable.

id: quant-ph/0402077
title: Single-spin readout for buried dopant semiconductor qubits
authors: L.C.L. Hollenberg, C.J. Wellard, C.I. Pakes, A.G. Fowler
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review B 69, 233301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402077
abstract: In the design of quantum computer architectures that take advantage of the long coherence times of dopant nuclear and electron spins in the solid-state, single-spin detection for readout remains a crucial unsolved problem. Schemes based on adiabatically induced spin-dependent electron tunnelling between individual donor atoms, detected using a single electron transistor (SET) as an ultra-sensitive electrometer, are thought to be problematic because of the low ionisaton energy of the final D- state. In this paper we analyse the adiabatic scheme in detail. We find that despite significant stabilization due to the presence of the D+, the field strengths required for the transition lead to a shortened dwell-time placing severe constraints on the SET measurement time. We therefore investigate a new method based on resonant electron transfer, which operates with much reduced field strengths. Various issues in the implementation of this method are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0402078
title: Collapses and revivals of exciton emission in a semiconductor microcavity: detuning and phase-space filling effects
authors: Guang-Ri Jin, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 013803 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402078
abstract: We investigate exciton emission of quantum well embedded in a semiconductor microcavity. The analytical expressions of the light intensity for the cases of excitonic number state and coherent state are presented by using secular approximation. Our results show that the effective exciton-exciton interaction leads to the appearance of collapse and revival of the light intensity. The revival time is twice compared the coherent state case with that of the number state. The dissipation of the exciton-polariton lowers the revival amplitude but does not alter the revival time. The influences of the detuning and the phase-space filling are studied. We find that the effect of the higher-order exciton-photon interaction may be removed by adjusting the detuning.

id: quant-ph/0402079
title: Spontaneous Collapse of Unstable Quantum Superposition State
authors: Takuya Okabe
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402079
abstract: On the basis of a proposed model of wave function collapse, we investigate spontaneous localization of a quantum state. The model is similar to the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber model, while we postulate the localization functions to depend on the quantum state to suffer collapse. According to the model, dual dynamics in quantum mechanics, deterministic and stochastic time evolution, are algorithmically implemented in tandem. After discussing the physical implications of the model qualitatively, we present numerical results for one-dimensional systems by way of example.

id: quant-ph/0402080
title: Isotropic quantum spin channels and additivity questions
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402080
abstract: The minimum entropy output is computed for rotationally invariant quantum channels acting on spin-1/2 and spin-1 systems. For the case of two parallel such channels and initial entangled (singlet) state the entropy of the output is higher then the doubled minimal entropy output of the single channel. This gives a certain moral support to the additivity hypothesis. Another related simple function of the channel (minimum entropy gain) is shown to be additive in general.

id: quant-ph/0402081
title: Maximum Likelihood Based Quantum Set Separation
authors: Sndor Imre, Ferenc Balzs
comments: 9 pages, Latex, 5 figures, will be presented at ICCS 04
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402081
abstract: In this paper we introduce a method, which is used for set separation based on quantum computation. In case of no a-priori knowledge about the source signal distribution, it is a challenging task to find an optimal decision rule which could be implemented in the separating algorithm. We lean on the Maximum Likelihood approach and build a bridge between this method and quantum counting. The proposed method is also able to distinguish between disjunct sets and intersection sets.

id: quant-ph/0402082
title: Normal Order: Combinatorial Graphs
authors: Allan I. Solomon, Gerard Duchamp, Pawel Blasiak, Andrzej Horzela, Karol A. Penson
comments: 7 pages, 15 references, 2 figures. Presented at "Progress in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics" (PSQM'03), Valladolid, Spain, July 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402082
abstract: A conventional context for supersymmetric problems arises when we consider systems containing both boson and fermion operators. In this note we consider the normal ordering problem for a string of such operators. In the general case, upon which we touch briefly, this problem leads to combinatorial numbers, the so-called Rook numbers. Since we assume that the two species, bosons and fermions, commute, we subsequently restrict ourselves to consideration of a single species, single-mode boson monomials. This problem leads to elegant generalisations of well-known combinatorial numbers, specifically Bell and Stirling numbers. We explicitly give the generating functions for some classes of these numbers. In this note we concentrate on the combinatorial graph approach, showing how some important classical results of graph theory lead to transparent representations of the combinatorial numbers associated with the boson normal ordering problem.

id: quant-ph/0402083
title: Quantum lithography, entanglement and Heisenberg-limited parameter estimation
authors: Pieter Kok, Samuel L. Braunstein, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, to appear in Journal of Optics B
journal: J. Opt. B Vol. 6, S811-S815 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402083
abstract: We explore the intimate relationship between quantum lithography, Heisenberg-limited parameter estimation and the rate of dynamical evolution of quantum states. We show how both the enhanced accuracy in measurements and the increased resolution in quantum lithography follow from the use of entanglement. Mathematically, the hyperresolution of quantum lithography appears naturally in the derivation of Heisenberg-limited parameter estimation. We also review recent experiments offering a proof of principle of quantum lithography, and we address the question of state preparation and the fabrication of suitable photoresists.

id: quant-ph/0402084
title: Laser linewidth effects in quantum state discrimination by EIT
authors: M. J. McDonnell, D. N. Stacey, A. M. Steane
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v70, 053802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402084
abstract: We discuss the use of electromagnetically modified absorption to achieve selective excitation in atoms: that is, the laser excitation of one transition while avoiding simultaneously exciting another transition whose frequency is the same as or close to that of the first. The selectivity which can be achieved in the presence of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is limited by the decoherence rate of the dark state. We present exact analytical expressions for this effect, and also physical models and approximate expressions which give useful insights into the phenomena. When the laser frequencies are near-resonant with the single-photon atomic transitions, EIT is essential for achieving discrimination. When the laser frequencies are far detuned, the `bright' two-photon Raman resonance is important for achieving selective excitation, while the `dark' resonance (EIT) need not be. The application to laser cooling of a trapped atom is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0402085
title: Storing Images in Entangled Quantum Systems
authors: S.E. Venegas-Andraca, J.L. Ball
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, includes basic introduction to Quantum Computation and Information Processing for computer scientists
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402085
abstract: We introduce a new method of storing visual information in Quantum Mechanical systems which has certain advantages over more restricted classical memory devices. To do this we employ uniquely Quantum Mechanical properties such as Entanglement in order to store information concerning the position and shape of simple objects.

id: quant-ph/0402086
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Trajectories Versus Master Equations: Finite Temperature Heat Bath
authors: Ting Yu
comments: 19 pages, typos corrected, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062107 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402086
abstract: The interrelationship between the non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equations and the corresponding non-Markovian master equations is investigated in the finite temperature regimes. We show that the general finite temperature non-Markovian trajectories can be used to derive the corresponding non-Markovian master equations. A simple, yet important solvable example is the well-known damped harmonic oscillator model in which a harmonic oscillator is coupled to a finite temperature reservoir in the rotating wave approximation. The exact convolutionless master equation for the damped harmonic oscillator is obtained by averaging the quantum trajectories relying upon no assumption of coupling strength or time scale. The master equation derived in this way automatically preserves the positivity, Hermiticity and unity.

id: quant-ph/0402087
title: Observation of coherent oscillation of a single nuclear spin and realization of a two-qubit conditional quantum gate
authors: F. Jelezko, T. Gaebel, I. Popa, M. Domhan, A. Gruber, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 figures, replaced with revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (13): Art. No. 130501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402087
abstract: Rabi nutations of a single nuclear spin in a solid have been observed. The experiments were carried out on a single electron and a single 13C nuclear spin of a single nitrogen vacancy defect center in diamond. The system was used for implementation of quantum logical NOT and a conditional two-qubit gate (CROT). Density matrix tomography of the CROT gate shows that the gate fidelity achieved in our experiments is up to 0.9, good enough to be used in quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0402088
title: Comment on "Enhancing Acceleration Radiation from Ground-State Atoms via Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics"
authors: B. L. Hu, Albert Roura
comments: 1 page, REVTeX4
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 129301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402088
abstract: This is a comment on [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 243004 (2003)] by Marlan O. Scully, Vitaly V. Kocharovsky, Alexey Belyanin, Edward Fry and Federico Capasso (quant-ph/0305178).

id: quant-ph/0402089
title: Quantum dense coding in multiparticle entangled states via local measurements
authors: Jian-Lan Chen, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett.21 (2004)12-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402089
abstract: In this paper, we study quantum dense coding between two arbitrarily fixed particles in a (N+2)-particle maximally-entangled states through introducing an auxiliary qubit and carrying out local measurements. It is shown that the transmitted classical information amount through such an entangled quantum channel usually is less than two classical bits. However, the information amount may reach two classical bits of information, and the classical information capacity is independent of the number of the entangled particles in the initial entangled state under certain conditions. The results offer deeper insights to quantum dense coding via quantum channels of multi-particle entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0402090
title: Towards Linear Optical Quantum Computers
authors: Jonathan P. Dowling, James D. Franson, Hwang Lee, Gerald J. Milburn
comments: 9 pages; Submitted to a special issue of Quantum Information Processing on "The Physics of Quantum Computing"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402090
abstract: Scalable quantum computation with linear optics was considered to be impossible due to the lack of efficient two-qubit logic gates, despite its ease of implementation of one-qubit gates. Two-qubit gates necessarily need a nonlinear interaction between the two photons, and the efficiency of this nonlinear interaction is typically very tiny in bulk materials. However, we recently have shown that this barrier can be circumvented with effective nonlinearities produced by projective measurements, and with this work linear-optical quantum computing becomes a new possibility of scalable quantum computation. We review several issues concerning its principles and requirements.

id: quant-ph/0402091
title: Quantum linear mutual information and classical correlations in globally pure bipartite systems
authors: R.M. Angelo, S.A. Vitiello, M.A.M. de Aguiar, K. Furuya
comments: (16 pages, 4 figures)
journal: Physica A 338 (2004) 458-470
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402091
abstract: We investigate the correlations of initially separable probability distributions in a globally pure bipartite system with two degrees of freedom for classical and quantum systems. A classical version of the quantum linear mutual information is introduced and the two quantities are compared for a system of oscillators coupled with both linear and non-linear interactions. The classical correlations help to understand how much of the quantum loss of purity are due to intrinsic quantum effects and how much is related to the probabilistic character of the initial states, a characteristic shared by both the classical and quantum pictures. Our examples show that, for initially localized Gaussian states, the classical statistical mutual linear entropy follows its quantum counterpart for short times. For non-Gaussian states the behavior of the classical and quantum measures of information are still qualitatively similar, although the fingerprints of the non-classical nature of the initial state can be observed in their different amplitudes of oscillation.

id: quant-ph/0402092
title: Inconsistency of quantum--classical dynamics, and what it implies
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: Found.Phys.36:102,2006; Found.Phys.36:102-111,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402092
abstract: A new proof of the impossibility of a universal quantum-classical dynamics is given. It has at least two consequences. The standard paradigm ``quantum system is measured by a classical apparatus" is untenable, while a quantum matter can be consistently coupled only with a quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0402093
title: Feasibility of detecting single atoms using photonic bandgap cavities
authors: Benjamin Lev, Kartik Srinivasan, Paul Barclay, Oskar Painter, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nanotechnology 15, S556 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402093
abstract: We propose an atom-cavity chip that combines laser cooling and trapping of neutral atoms with magnetic microtraps and waveguides to deliver a cold atom to the mode of a fiber taper coupled photonic bandgap (PBG) cavity. The feasibility of this device for detecting single atoms is analyzed using both a semi-classical treatment and an unconditional master equation approach. Single-atom detection seems achievable in an initial experiment involving the non-deterministic delivery of weakly trapped atoms into the mode of the PBG cavity.

id: quant-ph/0402094
title: Proper and Improper Separability
authors: Christopher G Timpson, Harvey R Brown
comments: 10 pages, LaTex, uses amsmath, 2 .eps figures. v2 additional figure; and reference and footnote to Seevinck and Uffink (2001). To appear in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 3(4):679-690 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402094
abstract: The distinction between proper and improper mixtures is a staple of the discussion of foundational questions in quantum mechanics. Here we note an analogous distinction in the context of the theory of entanglement. The terminology of `proper' versus `improper' separability is proposed to mark the distinction.

id: quant-ph/0402095
title: Limitations of Quantum Advice and One-Way Communication
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 20 pages. Journal version to appear in Theory of Computing; proofs written out more clearly and mistakes corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402095
abstract: Although a quantum state requires exponentially many classical bits to describe, the laws of quantum mechanics impose severe restrictions on how that state can be accessed. This paper shows in three settings that quantum messages have only limited advantages over classical ones. First, we show that BQP/qpoly is contained in PP/poly, where BQP/qpoly is the class of problems solvable in quantum polynomial time, given a polynomial-size "quantum advice state" that depends only on the input length. This resolves a question of Buhrman, and means that we should not hope for an unrelativized separation between quantum and classical advice. Underlying our complexity result is a general new relation between deterministic and quantum one-way communication complexities, which applies to partial as well as total functions. Second, we construct an oracle relative to which NP is not contained in BQP/qpoly. To do so, we use the polynomial method to give the first correct proof of a direct product theorem for quantum search. This theorem has other applications; for example, it can be used to fix a flawed result of Klauck about quantum time-space tradeoffs for sorting. Third, we introduce a new trace distance method for proving lower bounds on quantum one-way communication complexity. Using this method, we obtain optimal quantum lower bounds for two problems of Ambainis, for which no nontrivial lower bounds were previously known even for classical randomized protocols.

id: quant-ph/0402096
title: Experimental Demonstration of Five-photon Entanglement and Open-destination Teleportation
authors: Zhi Zhao, Yu-Ao Chen, An-Ning Zhang, Tao Yang, Hans Briegel, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, submitted for publication on 15 October, 2003
journal: Nature 430, 54-58(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402096
abstract: Universal quantum error-correction requires the ability of manipulating entanglement of five or more particles. Although entanglement of three or four particles has been experimentally demonstrated and used to obtain the extreme contradiction between quantum mechanics and local realism, the realization of five-particle entanglement remains an experimental challenge. Meanwhile, a crucial experimental challenge in multi-party quantum communication and computation is the so-called open-destination teleportation. During open-destination teleportation, an unknown quantum state of a single particle is first teleported onto a N-particle coherent superposition to perform distributed quantum information processing. At a later stage this teleported state can be readout at any of the N particles for further applications by performing a projection measurement on the remaining N-1 particles. Here, we report a proof-of-principle demonstration of five-photon entanglement and open-destination teleportation. In the experiment, we use two entangled photon pairs to generate a four-photon entangled state, which is then combined with a single photon state to achieve the experimental goals. The methods developed in our experiment would have various applications e.g. in quantum secret sharing and measurement-based quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0402097
title: Quantum Logic Using Linear Optics
authors: J.D. Franson, B.C. Jacobs, T.B. Pittman
comments: 31 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402097
abstract: In order for quantum communications systems to become widely used, it will probably be necessary to develop quantum repeaters that can extend the range of quantum key distribution systems and correct for errors in the transmission of quantum information. Quantum logic gates based on linear optical techniques appear to be a promising approach for the development of quantum repeaters, and they may have applications in quantum computing as well. Here we describe the basic principles of logic gates based on linear optics, along with the results from several experimental demonstrations of devices of this kind. A prototype source of single photons and a quantum memory device for photons are also discussed. These devices can be combined with a four-qubit encoding to implement a quantum repeater.

id: quant-ph/0402098
title: Overview of Quantum Error Prevention and Leakage Elimination
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Lian-Ao Wu, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 8 pages, no figures, submitted to the proceedings of the Physics of Quantum Electronics, 2004
journal: Journal of Modern Optics Vol. 51, pg. 2449, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402098
abstract: Quantum error prevention strategies will be required to produce a scalable quantum computing device and are of central importance in this regard. Progress in this area has been quite rapid in the past few years. In order to provide an overview of the achievements in this area, we discuss the three major classes of error prevention strategies, the abilities of these methods and the shortcomings. We then discuss the combinations of these strategies which have recently been proposed in the literature. Finally we present recent results in reducing errors on encoded subspaces using decoupling controls. We show how to generally remove mixing of an encoded subspace with external states (termed leakage errors) using decoupling controls. Such controls are known as ``leakage elimination operations'' or ``LEOs.''

id: quant-ph/0402099
title: Correct mutual information, quantum bit error rate and secure transmission efficiency in Wojcik's eavesdropping scheme on ping-pong protocol
authors: Zhanjun Zhang
comments: The wrong mutual information, quantum bit error rate and secure transmission efficiency in Wojcik's eavesdropping scheme [PRL90(03)157901]on ping-pong protocol have been pointed out and corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402099
abstract: The wrong mutual information, quantum bit error rate and secure transmission efficiency in Wojcik's eavesdropping scheme [PRL90(03)157901]on ping-pong protocol have been pointed out and corrected.

id: quant-ph/0402100
title: Phase Space Correspondence between Classical Optics and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 48 pages, 7 figures
journal: Progress in Optics vol. 42,pp.424-486, 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402100
abstract: The paper scrutinizes both the similarities and the differences between the classical optics and quantum mechanical theories in phase space, especially between the Wigner distribution functions defined in the respective phase spaces. Classical optics is able to provide an understanding of either the corpuscular or wave aspects of quantum mechanics, reflected in phase space through the classical limit of the quantum Wigner distribution function or the Wigner distribution function in classical optics, respectively. However, classical optics, as any classical theory, cannot mimic the wave-particle duality that is at the heart of quantum mechanics. Moreover, it is never enough underlined that, although the mathematical phase space formalisms in classical optics and quantum mechanics are very similar, the main difference between these theories, evidenced in the results of measurements, is as deep as it can get even in phase space. On the other hand, the phase space treatment allows an unexpected similar treatment of interference phenomena, although quantum and classical superpositions of wavefunctions and fields, respectively, have a completely different behavior. This similarity originates in the bilinear character of the Wigner distribution function in both quantum mechanics and classical optical wave theory. Actually, the phase space treatment of the quantum and classical wave theory is identical from the mathematical point of view, if the Planck constant is replaced by the wavelength of light. Even Wigner distribution functions of particular quantum states, such as the Schrodinger cat state, can be mimicked by classical optical means, but not the true quantum character, which resides in the probability significance of the wavefunction, in comparison to the physical realness of classical wave fields.

id: quant-ph/0402101
title: High-Precision Numerical Determination of Eigenvalues for a Double-Well Potential Related to the Zinn-Justin Conjecture
authors: H. A. Alhendi, E. I. Lashin
comments: Substantial changes including the title and the content of the paper 8 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: J.Phys.A38:6785-6792,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402101
abstract: A numerical method of high precision is used to calculate the energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for a symmetric double-well potential. The method is based on enclosing the system within two infinite walls with a large but finite separation and developing a power series solution for the Schr$\ddot{o}$dinger equation. The obtained numerical results are compared with those obtained on the basis of the Zinn-Justin conjecture and found to be in an excellent agreement.

id: quant-ph/0402102
title: Simulating noisy quantum protocols with quantum trajectories
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Carlos Mejia-Monasterio
comments: 11 pages, 7 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062317 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402102
abstract: The theory of quantum trajectories is applied to simulate the effects of quantum noise sources induced by the environment on quantum information protocols. We study two models that generalize single qubit noise channels like amplitude damping and phase flip to the many-qubit situation. We calculate the fidelity of quantum information transmission through a chaotic channel using the teleportation scheme with different environments. In this example, we analyze the role played by the kind of collective noise suffered by the quantum processor during its operation. We also investigate the stability of a quantum algorithm simulating the quantum dynamics of a paradigmatic model of chaos, the baker's map. Our results demonstrate that, using the quantum trajectories approach, we are able to simulate quantum protocols in the presence of noise and with large system sizes of more than 20 qubits.

id: quant-ph/0402103
title: Young's two-slits experiment with people
authors: Raoul Nakhmanson
comments: 6 pages, 14 figures, 3 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402103
abstract: The two-slits and one-slit experiments with people are performed and show the existence of wave component of women behavior.

id: quant-ph/0402104
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation For Local Non-Markovian Noise
authors: Barbara M. Terhal, Guido Burkard
comments: 19 pages+ 3 figures; v2: minor corrections and reply to comment by Alicki (this http URL)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012336 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402104
abstract: We derive a threshold result for fault-tolerant quantum computation for local non-Markovian noise models. The role of error amplitude in our analysis is played by the product of the elementary gate time t_0 and the spectral width of the interaction Hamiltonian between system and bath. We discuss extensions of our model and the applicability of our analysis.

id: quant-ph/0402105
title: Nonclassicality of Thermal Radiation
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) L21-L24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402105
abstract: It is demonstrated that thermal radiation of small occupation number is strongly nonclassical. This includes most forms of naturally occurring radiation. Nonclassicality can be observed as a negative weak value of a positive observable. It is related to negative values of the Margenau-Hill quasi-probability distribution.

id: quant-ph/0402106
title: Analytically Solvable PT-Invariant Periodic Potentials
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402106
abstract: Associated Lam\'e potentials $V(x)=a(a+1)m\sn^2(x,m)+b(b+1)m{\cn^2 (x,m)}/{\dn^2(x,m)}$ are used to construct complex, PT-invariant, periodic potentials using the anti-isospectral transformation $x \to ix+\beta$, where $\beta$ is any nonzero real number. These PT-invariant potentials are defined by $V^{PT}(x) \equiv -V(ix+\beta)$, and have a different real period from $V(x)$. They are analytically solvable potentials with a finite number of band gaps, when $a$ and $b$ are integers. Explicit expressions for the band edges of some of these potentials are given. For the special case of the complex potential $V^{PT}(x)=-2m\sn^2(ix+\beta,m)$, we also analytically obtain the dispersion relation. Additional new, solvable, complex, PT-invariant, periodic potentials are obtained by applying the techniques of supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0402107
title: Coins Make Quantum Walks Faster
authors: Andris Ambainis, Julia Kempe, Alexander Rivosh
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: Proc. 16th ACM-SIAM SODA, p. 1099-1108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402107
abstract: We show how to search N items arranged on a $\sqrt{N}\times\sqrt{N}$ grid in time $O(\sqrt N \log N)$, using a discrete time quantum walk. This result for the first time exhibits a significant difference between discrete time and continuous time walks without coin degrees of freedom, since it has been shown recently that such a continuous time walk needs time $\Omega(N)$ to perform the same task. Our result furthermore improves on a previous bound for quantum local search by Aaronson and Ambainis. We generalize our result to 3 and more dimensions where the walk yields the optimal performance of $O(\sqrt{N})$ and give several extensions of quantum walk search algorithms for general graphs. The coin-flip operation needs to be chosen judiciously: we show that another ``natural'' choice of coin gives a walk that takes $\Omega(N)$ steps. We also show that in 2 dimensions it is sufficient to have a two-dimensional coin-space to achieve the time $O(\sqrt{N} \log N)$.

id: quant-ph/0402108
title: Controlling qubit transitions during non-adiabatic rapid passage through quantum interference
authors: Frank Gaitan
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables; submitted to J. Mod. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402108
abstract: In adiabatic rapid passage, the Bloch vector of a qubit is inverted by slowly inverting an external field to which it is coupled, and along which it is initially aligned. In non-adiabatic twisted rapid passage, the external field is allowed to twist around its initial direction with azimuthal angle \phi(t) at the same time that it is non-adiabatically inverted. For polynomial twist, \phi(t) \sim Bt^{n}. We show that for n \ge 3, multiple qubit resonances can occur during a single inversion of the external field, producing strong interference effects in the qubit transition probability. The character of the interference is controllable through variation of the twist strength B. Constructive and destructive interference are possible, greatly enhancing or suppressing qubit transitions. Experimental confirmation of these controllable interference effects has already occurred. Application of this interference mechanism to the construction of fast fault-tolerant quantum CNOT and NOT gates is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0402109
title: Gaussian relative entropy of entanglement
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 71, 062320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402109
abstract: For two gaussian states with given correlation matrices, in order that relative entropy between them is practically calculable, I in this paper describe the ways of transforming the correlation matrix to matrix in the exponential density operator. Gaussian relative entropy of entanglement is proposed as the minimal relative entropy of the gaussian state with respect to separable gaussian state set. I prove that gaussian relative entropy of entanglement achieves when the separable gaussian state is at the border of separable gaussian state set and inseparable gaussian state set. For two mode gaussian states, the calculation of gaussian relative entropy of entanglement is greatly simplified from searching for a matrix with 10 undetermined parameters to 3 variables. The two mode gaussian states are classified as four types, numerical evidence strongly suggests that gaussian relative entropy of entanglement for each type is realized by the separable state within the same type.For symmetric gaussian state it is strictly proved that it is achieved by symmetric gaussian state.

id: quant-ph/0402110
title: Experimental open air quantum key distribution with a single photon source
authors: Romain Alleaume, Francois Treussart, Gaetan Messin, Yannick Dumeige, Jean-Francois Roch, Alexios Beveratos, Rosa Brouri-Tualle, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 6 (2004) 92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402110
abstract: We present a full implementation of a quantum key distribution (QKD) system with a single photon source, operating at night in open air. The single photon source at the heart of the functional and reliable setup relies on the pulsed excitation of a single nitrogen-vacancy color center in diamond nanocrystal. We tested the effect of attenuation on the polarized encoded photons for inferring longer distance performance of our system. For strong attenuation, the use of pure single photon states gives measurable advantage over systems relying on weak attenuated laser pulses. The results are in good agreement with theoretical models developed to assess QKD security.

id: quant-ph/0402111
title: Entangling single and $N$ atom qubits for fast quantum state detection and transmission
authors: M. Saffman, T. G. Walker
comments: 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402111
abstract: We discuss the use of Rydberg blockade techniques for entanglement of 1 atom qubits with collective $N$ atom qubits. We show how the entanglement can be used to achieve fast readout and transmission of the state of single atom qubits without the use of optical cavities.

id: quant-ph/0402112
title: Bell inequalities versus entanglement and mixedness for a class of two - qubit states
authors: L. Derkacz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 11 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 328(2004), 26-35
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402112
abstract: For a class of mixed two -qubit states we show that it is not possible to discriminate between states violating or non - violating Bell - CHSH inequalities, knowing only their entanglement and mixedness. For a large set of possible values of these quantities, we construct pairs of states with the same entanglement and mixedness such that one state is violating but the other is non - violating Bell - CHSH inequality.

id: quant-ph/0402113
title: Marginal distributions in $(\bf 2N)$-dimensional phase space and the quantum $(\bf N+1)$ marginal theorem
authors: G. Auberson, G. Mahoux, S. M. Roy, V. Singh
comments: 29 pages (Work supported by the Indo-French Centre for the Promotion of Advanced Research, Project Nb 1501-02). v2 to add a report-no
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402113
abstract: We study the problem of constructing a probability density in 2N-dimensional phase space which reproduces a given collection of $n$ joint probability distributions as marginals. Only distributions authorized by quantum mechanics, i.e. depending on a (complete) commuting set of $N$ variables, are considered. A diagrammatic or graph theoretic formulation of the problem is developed. We then exactly determine the set of ``admissible'' data, i.e. those types of data for which the problem always admits solutions. This is done in the case where the joint distributions originate from quantum mechanics as well as in the case where this constraint is not imposed. In particular, it is shown that a necessary (but not sufficient) condition for the existence of solutions is $n\leq N+1$. When the data are admissible and the quantum constraint is not imposed, the general solution for the phase space density is determined explicitly. For admissible data of a quantum origin, the general solution is given in certain (but not all) cases. In the remaining cases, only a subset of solutions is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0402114
title: Slow decay of dynamical correlation functions for nonequilibrium quantum states
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 7447-7454
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402114
abstract: A property of dynamical correlation functions for nonequilibrium states is discussed. We consider arbitrary dimensional quantum spin systems with local interaction and translationally invariant states with nonvanishing current over them. A correlation function between local charge and local Hamiltonian at different spacetime points is shown to exhibit slow decay.

id: quant-ph/0402115
title: Is Fresnel Optics Quantum Mechanics in Phase Space?
authors: O. Crasser, H. Mack, W. P. Schleich
comments: RevTeX, 6 pages, including 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402115
abstract: We formulate and argue in favor of the following conjecture: There exists an intimate connection between Wigner's quantum mechanical phase space distribution function and classical Fresnel optics.

id: quant-ph/0402116
title: Quantum holography and multiparticle entanglement using ground-state coherences
authors: G. S. Agarwal, P. Lougovski, H. Walther
comments: submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402116
abstract: A method of storing and retrieving quantum states of radiation fields using the ground-state coherences is discussed. We demonstrate the generation of multiparticle entangled states starting from atoms prepared in a coherent state. Use is made of the j=-1/2 to +1/2 atomic transition and its interaction with a far-detuned elliptically polarized field.

id: quant-ph/0402117
title: Classification of Quantum Symmetric Non-zero Sum 2x2 Games in the Eisert Scheme
authors: ?lvaro Francisco Huertas-Rosero
comments: M.Sc. thesis. 154 pages, 31 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402117
abstract: A quantum game in the Eisert scheme is defined by the payoff matrix, plus some quantum entanglement parameters. In the symmetric nonzero-sum 2x2 games, the relevant features of the game are given by two parameters in the payoff matrix, and only one extra entanglement parameter is introduced by quantizing it in the Eisert scheme. The criteria adopted in this work to classify quantum games are the amount and characteristics of Nash equilibria and Pareto-optimal positions. A new classification based on them is developed for symmetric nonzero-sum classical 2x2 games, as well as classifications for quantum games with different restricted subsets of the total strategy set. Finally, a classification is presented taking the whole set of strategies into account, both unitary strategies and nonunitary strategies studied as convex mixures of unitary strategies. The classification reproduces features which have been previously found in other works, like appearance of multiple equilibria, changes in the character of equilibria, and entanglement regime transitions.

id: quant-ph/0402118
title: Reply to "Non-relativistic proofs of the spin-statistics connection," by Shaji and Sudarshan
authors: Murray Peshkin
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402118
abstract: I earlier proved under stated assumptions of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, that identical spin-zero particles with no internal degrees of freedom must be bosons. Shaji and Sudarshan have criticized that proof, asserting that it is "based on single-valuedness under rotation of the wave functions of systems of identical particles." No such assumption was used. Here, to remove all doubt, I exclude the fermion possibility through a proof in which even the existence of rotation is not used. Following that, I assume that the Hilbert space is invariant under rotation to exclude other symmetries which correspond neither to bosons nor to fermions. In that proof no issue of single-valuedness can arise.

id: quant-ph/0402119
title: Single-beam noise characteristics of quantum correlated twin beams
authors: Yun Zhangx, Katsuyuki Kasai, Kazuhiro Hayasaka
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures. will appear in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402119
abstract: We investigated the intensity noise spectra of the single beam of a pump-enhanced continuous-wave (cw) optical parametric oscillator (OPO), which was used to generate quantum correlated twin beams, as a function of the pump power. With a triply (pump-, signal-, and idler-) resonant cavity, the oscillation threshold of our OPO was about 8.5+/-1.3 mW and the measured slope conversion efficiency was 0.72+/-0.02. A twin beams with power of 240 mW were generated at pump power of 350 mW. The relaxation oscillation frequencies, which depend on the pump power, were observed when the pump power of OPO was from 12.5 mW to 28 mW. The experimental results confirm the predicted increase in OPO relaxation frequency with pump power. Squeezing of the single beam intensity was for the first time inferred experimentally by exploiting nature of quantum noise dependent on loss.

id: quant-ph/0402120
title: Large negative and positive delay of optical pulses in coherently prepared dense Rb vapor with buffer gas
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Irina Novikova, George R. Welch
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 063808 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402120
abstract: We experimentally study the group time delay for a light pulse propagating through hot Rb vapor in the presence of a strong coupling field in a $\Lambda$ configuration. We demonstrate that the ultra-slow pulse propagation is transformed into superluminal propagation as the one-photon detuning of the light increases due to the change in the transmission resonance lineshape. Negative group velocity as low as -c/10^6=-80 m/s is recorded. We also find that the advance time in the regime of the superluminal propagation grows linearly with increasing laser field power.

id: quant-ph/0402121
title: Consciousness and the Wigner's friend problem
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics 35 (2005) 1943
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402121
abstract: It is generally agreed that decoherence theory is, if not a complete answer, at least a great step forward towards a solution of the quantum measurement problem. It is shown here however that in the cases in which a sentient being is explicitly assumed to take cognizance of the outcome the reasons we have for judging this way are not totally consistent, so that the question has to be considered anew. It is pointed out that the way the Broglie-Bohm model solves the riddle suggests a possible clue, consisting in assuming that even very simple systems may have some sort of a proto-consciousness, but that their ``internal states of consciousness'' are not predictive. It is, next, easily shown that if we imagine the systems get larger, in virtue of decoherence their internal states of consciousness progressively gain in predictive value. So that, for macro-systems, they may be identified (in practice) with the predictive states of consciousness on which we ground our observational predictions. The possibilities of carrying over this idea to standard quantum mechanics are then investigated. Conditions of conceptual consistency are considered and found rather strict, and, finally, two solutions emerge, differing conceptually very much from one another but in both of which the, possibly non-predictive, generalized internal states of consciousness play a crucial role.

id: quant-ph/0402122
title: Effects of the Bloch-Siegert Oscillation on the Precision of Qubit Rotations: Direct Two-Level vs. Off-Resonant Raman Excitation
authors: Prabhakar Pradhan, George C. Cardoso, Jacob Morzinski, M. S. Shahriar
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402122
abstract: In a direct two-level qubit system, when the Rabi frequency is comparable to the resonance frequency, the rotating wave approximation is not appropriate. In this case, the Rabi oscillation is accompanied by another oscillation at twice the frequency of the driving field, the so called Bloch-Siegert oscillation (BSO), which depends on the initial phase of the driving field. This oscillation may restrict the precise rotation of a qubit made of direct two-level system. Here, we show that in case of an effectively two-level lambda system, the BSO is inherently negligible, implying a greater precision for rotation of a qubit made of such a lambda system when compared to a direct two-level qubit in a strong driving field.

id: quant-ph/0402123
title: Quantum and Classical Strong Direct Product Theorems and Optimal Time-Space Tradeoffs
authors: Hartmut Klauck, Robert Spalek, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 22 pages LaTeX. 2nd version: some parts rewritten, results are essentially the same. A shorter version will appear in IEEE FOCS 04
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402123
abstract: A strong direct product theorem says that if we want to compute k independent instances of a function, using less than k times the resources needed for one instance, then our overall success probability will be exponentially small in k. We establish such theorems for the classical as well as quantum query complexity of the OR function. This implies slightly weaker direct product results for all total functions. We prove a similar result for quantum communication protocols computing k instances of the Disjointness function. Our direct product theorems imply a time-space tradeoff T^2*S=Omega(N^3) for sorting N items on a quantum computer, which is optimal up to polylog factors. They also give several tight time-space and communication-space tradeoffs for the problems of Boolean matrix-vector multiplication and matrix multiplication.

id: quant-ph/0402124
title: Extremal entanglement and mixedness in continuous variable systems
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures; expanded version; to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 022318
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402124
abstract: We investigate the relationship between mixedness and entanglement for Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. We introduce generalized entropies based on Schatten $p$-norms to quantify the mixedness of a state, and derive their explicit expressions in terms of symplectic spectra. We compare the hierarchies of mixedness provided by such measures with the one provided by the purity (defined as ${\rm tr} \varrho^2$ for the state $\varrho$) for generic $n$-mode states. We then review the analysis proving the existence of both maximally and minimally entangled states at given global and marginal purities, with the entanglement quantified by the logarithmic negativity. Based on these results, we extend such an analysis to generalized entropies, introducing and fully characterizing maximally and minimally entangled states for given global and local generalized entropies. We compare the different roles played by the purity and by the generalized $p$-entropies in quantifying the entanglement and the mixedness of continuous variable systems. We introduce the concept of average logarithmic negativity, showing that it allows a reliable quantitative estimate of continuous variable entanglement by direct measurements of global and marginal generalized $p$-entropies.

id: quant-ph/0402125
title: Unambiguous comparison of the states of multiple quantum systems
authors: Anthony Chefles, Erika Andersson, Igor Jex
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, Vol. 37, 7315, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402125
abstract: We consider N quantum systems initially prepared in pure states and address the problem of unambiguously comparing them. One may ask whether or not all $N$ systems are in the same state. Alternatively, one may ask whether or not the states of all N systems are different. We investigate the possibility of unambiguously obtaining this kind of information. It is found that some unambiguous comparison tasks are possible only when certain linear independence conditions are satisfied. We also obtain measurement strategies for certain comparison tasks which are optimal under a broad range of circumstances, in particular when the states are completely unknown. Such strategies, which we call universal comparison strategies, are found to have intriguing connections with the problem of quantifying the distinguishability of a set of quantum states and also with unresolved conjectures in linear algebra. We finally investigate a potential generalisation of unambiguous state comparison, which we term unambiguous overlap filtering.

id: quant-ph/0402126
title: All quantum observables in a hidden-variables model must commute simultaneously
authors: James D. Malley
comments: This is an expanded version of the paper scheduled to appear in Physical Review A (Feb 2004), and includes a rather long technical Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402126
abstract: Under a standard set of assumptions for a hidden-variables model for quantum events, we show that all observables must commute simultaneously. And, despite Bell's complaint that a key condition of von Neumann's was quite unrealistic, we show these these conditions are entirely equivalent to those later introduced by Bell, Kochen and Specker. As is it known that these conditions are also equivalent to those under which the Bell-Clauser-Horne inequalities are derived, we see that any experimental violations of the inequalities demonstrate only that quantum observables do not commute.The same conclusion applies to the collection of elegant inequality-free no-go proofs of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, Mermin and Peres. Otherwise expressed, the usual hidden-variable models have assumptions that are collectively too strong to be interesting, and hence need modification or deletion.

id: quant-ph/0402127
title: Quantum Entanglement in Time
authors: Caslav Brukner, Samuel Taylor, Sancho Cheung, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402127
abstract: The temporal Bell inequalities are derived from the assumptions of realism and locality in time. It is shown that quantum mechanics violates these inequalities and thus is in conflict with the two assumptions. This can be used for performing certain tasks that are not possible classically. Our results open up a possibility for introducing the notion of entanglement in time in quantum physics.

id: quant-ph/0402128
title: Computable Functions, the Church-Turing Thesis and the Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 5 pages, no figures, REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402128
abstract: It is possible in principle to construct quantum mechanical observables and unitary operators which, if implemented in physical systems as measurements and dynamical evolution, would contradict the Church-Turing thesis, which lies at the foundation of computer science. Elsewhere we have argued that the quantum measurement problem implies a finite, computational model of the measurement and evolution of quantum states. If correct, this approach helps to identify the key feature that can reconcile quantum mechanics with the Church-Turing thesis: finitude of the degree of fine-graining of Hilbert space. This suggests that the Church-Turing thesis constrains the physical universe and thereby highlights a surprising connection between purely logical and algorithmic considerations on the one hand and physical reality on the other.

id: quant-ph/0402129
title: The classical capacity achievable by a quantum channel assisted by limited entanglement
authors: Peter W. Shor
comments: 9 pages, to appear in the Festschrift celebrating Alexander S. Holevo's 60'th birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402129
abstract: We give the trade-off curve showing the capacity of a quantum channel as a function of the amount of entanglement used by the sender and receiver for transmitting information. The endpoints of this curve are given by the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland capacity formula and the entanglement-assisted capacity, which is the maximum over all input density matrices of the quantum mutual information. The proof we give is based on the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland formula, and also gives a new and simpler proof for the entanglement-assisted capacity formula.

id: quant-ph/0402130
title: A categorical semantics of quantum protocols
authors: Samson Abramsky, Bob Coecke
comments: Significant additions and modifications as compared to the previous version (abstract inner-products, simplified presentation of abstract quantum mechanics). 21 pages, some pictures, some diagrams. 2007 replacement: source had become incompatible with Paul taylor's latest update of his Diagrams package so update was needed
journal: Proceedings of the 19th IEEE conference on Logic in Computer Science (LiCS'04). IEEE Computer Science Press (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402130
abstract: We study quantum information and computation from a novel point of view. Our approach is based on recasting the standard axiomatic presentation of quantum mechanics, due to von Neumann, at a more abstract level, of compact closed categories with biproducts. We show how the essential structures found in key quantum information protocols such as teleportation, logic-gate teleportation, and entanglement-swapping can be captured at this abstract level. Moreover, from the combination of the --apparently purely qualitative-- structures of compact closure and biproducts there emerge `scalars` and a `Born rule'. This abstract and structural point of view opens up new possibilities for describing and reasoning about quantum systems. It also shows the degrees of axiomatic freedom: we can show what requirements are placed on the (semi)ring of scalars C(I,I), where C is the category and I is the tensor unit, in order to perform various protocols such as teleportation. Our formalism captures both the information-flow aspect of the protocols (see quant-ph/0402014), and the branching due to quantum indeterminism. This contrasts with the standard accounts, in which the classical information flows are `outside' the usual quantum-mechanical formalism.

id: quant-ph/0402131
title: A Generic Security Proof for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Matthias Christandl, Renato Renner, Artur Ekert
comments: Analysis of B92 protocol added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402131
abstract: Quantum key distribution allows two parties, traditionally known as Alice and Bob, to establish a secure random cryptographic key if, firstly, they have access to a quantum communication channel, and secondly, they can exchange classical public messages which can be monitored but not altered by an eavesdropper, Eve. Quantum key distribution provides perfect security because, unlike its classical counterpart, it relies on the laws of physics rather than on ensuring that successful eavesdropping would require excessive computational effort. However, security proofs of quantum key distribution are not trivial and are usually restricted in their applicability to specific protocols. In contrast, we present a general and conceptually simple proof which can be applied to a number of different protocols. It relies on the fact that a cryptographic procedure called privacy amplification is equally secure when an adversary's memory for data storage is quantum rather than classical.

id: quant-ph/0402132
title: Preparation of pseudopure state in a cluster of dipolar-coupled spins with "unresolved" spectrum
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 70, 022330 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402132
abstract: A method of creating pseudopure spin states in large clusters of coupled spins is described. It is based on filtering multiple-quantum coherence of the highest order followed by a time-reversal period and partial saturation. Experimental demonstration is presented for a cluster of six dipolar-coupled proton spins of a benzene molecule in liquid crystalline matrix, and the details of spin dynamics are studied numerically.

id: quant-ph/0402133
title: Faithful Teleportation with Partially Entangled States
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 5 pages, RevTex4, This significantly modified version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042301 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402133
abstract: We write explicitly a general protocol for faithful teleportation of a d-state particle (qudit) via a partially entangled pair of (pure) $n$-state particles. The classical communication cost (CCC) of the protocol is $\log_{2}(nd)$ bits, and it is implemented by a {\em projective} measurement performed by Alice, and a unitary operator performed by Bob (after receiving from Alice the measurement result). We prove the optimality of our protocol by a comparison with the concentrate and teleport strategy. We also show that if $d>n/2$ or if there is no residual entanglement left after the faithful teleportation, the CCC of {\em any} protocol is at least $\log_{2}(nd)$ bits. Furthermore, we find a lower bound on the CCC in the process transforming one bipartite state to another by means of local operation and classical communication (LOCC).

id: quant-ph/0402134
title: Consistent measurement of a quantum dynamical variable using classical apparatus
authors: E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402134
abstract: The claim that there is an inconsistency of quantum-classical dynamics [1] is investigated. We point out that a consistent formulation of quantum and classical dynamics which can be used to describe quantum measurement processes is already available in the literature [2]. An example in which a quantum system is interacting with a classical system is worked out using this formulation.

id: quant-ph/0402135
title: Spherical Code Key Distribution Protocols for Qubits
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: 4 pages revtex, 2 figures; clarified security analysis. Final version for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052314 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402135
abstract: Recently spherical codes were introduced as potentially more capable ensembles for quantum key distribution. Here we develop specific key creation protocols for the two qubit-based spherical codes, the trine and tetrahedron, and analyze them in the context of a suitably-tailored intercept/resend attack, both in standard form, and a ``gentler'' version whose back-action on the quantum state is weaker. When compared to the standard unbiased basis protocols, BB84 and six-state, two distinct advantages are found. First, they offer improved tolerance of eavesdropping, the trine besting its counterpart BB84 and the tetrahedron the six-state protocol. Second, the key error rate may be computed from the sift rate of the protocol itself, removing the need to sacrifice key bits for this purpose. This simplifies the protocol and improves the overall key rate.

id: quant-ph/0402136
title: Feedback control of quantum state reduction
authors: Ramon van Handel, John K. Stockton, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Expanded discussion of quantum probability and filtering, added new results
journal: IEEE Trans. Automat. Control 50 (6), 768-780, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402136
abstract: Feedback control of quantum mechanical systems must take into account the probabilistic nature of quantum measurement. We formulate quantum feedback control as a problem of stochastic nonlinear control by considering separately a quantum filtering problem and a state feedback control problem for the filter. We explore the use of stochastic Lyapunov techniques for the design of feedback controllers for quantum spin systems and demonstrate the possibility of stabilizing one outcome of a quantum measurement with unit probability.

id: quant-ph/0402137
title: Deterministic Dicke state preparation with continuous measurement and control
authors: John K. Stockton, Ramon van Handel, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: Additional information is available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022106 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402137
abstract: We characterize the long-time projective behavior of the stochastic master equation describing a continuous, collective spin measurement of an atomic ensemble both analytically and numerically. By adding state based feedback, we show that it is possible to prepare highly entangled Dicke states deterministically.

id: quant-ph/0402138
title: Efficient many-party controlled teleportation of multi-qubit quantum information via entanglement
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 70, 022329 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402138
abstract: We present a way to teleport multi-qubit quantum information from a sender to a distant receiver via the control of many agents in a network. We show that the original state of each qubit can be restored by the receiver as long as all the agents collaborate. However, even if one agent does not cooperate, the receiver can not fully recover the original state of each qubit. The method operates essentially through entangling quantum information during teleportation, in such a way that the required auxiliary qubit resources, local operation, and classical communication are considerably reduced for the present purpose.

id: quant-ph/0402139
title: Comments on "Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation for Local Non-Markovian Noise"
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402139
abstract: In the recent paper Terhal and Burkard derived a threshold result for fault-tolerant quantum computation under the assumption of the non-Markovian noise and claimed to rebut the objections rised by Alicki and Horodecki's. The purpose of this note is to show that the main condition used by Terhal and Burkard, although looking quite innocently, implies the assumption of the extremally low probability error per single quantum gate - p < 10^{-8} - 10^{-12} - i.e. the square of the expected threshold value for the case of Markovian noise.

id: quant-ph/0402140
title: Quantum Phase Space in Relativistic Theory: the Case of Charge-Invariant Observables
authors: A.A. Semenov, B.I. Lev, C.V. Usenko
comments: Oral talk given at 5th International Conference "Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics", Kiev, Ukraine (June 23-29, 2003)
journal: EconfC0306234:1448-1453,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402140
abstract: Mathematical method of quantum phase space is very useful in physical applications like quantum optics and non-relativistic quantum mechanics. However, attempts to generalize it for the relativistic case lead to some difficulties. One of problems is band structure of energy spectrum for a relativistic particle. This corresponds to an internal degree of freedom, so-called charge variable. In physical problems we often deal with such of dynamical variables that do not depend on this degree of freedom. These are position, momentum, and any combination of them. Restricting our consideration to this kind of observables we propose the relativistic Weyl--Wigner--Moyal formalism that contains some surprising differences from its non-relativistic counterpart.

id: quant-ph/0402141
title: Some Novel Thought Experiments Involving Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information
authors: Omid Akhavan
comments: PhD Thesis, Sharif University of Technology, July 2003, 118 pages, 26 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402141
abstract: In this thesis, we have proposed some novel thought experiments involving foundations of quantum mechanics and quantum information theory, using quantum entanglement property. Concerning foundations of quantum mechanics, we have suggested some typical systems including two correlated particles which can distinguish between the two famous theories of quantum mechanics, i.e. the standard and Bohmian quantum mechanics, at the individual level of pair of particles. Meantime, the two theories present the same predictions at the ensemble level of particles. Regarding quantum information theory, two theoretical quantum communication schemes including quantum dense coding and quantum teleportation schemes have been proposed by using entangled spatial states of two EPR particles shared between two parties. It is shown that the rate of classical information gain in our dense coding scheme is greater than some previously proposed multi-qubit protocols by a logarithmic factor dependent on the dimension of Hilbert space. The proposed teleportation scheme can provide a complete wave function teleportation of an object having other degrees of freedom in our three-dimensional space, for the first time. All required unitary operators which are necessary in our state preparation and Bell state measurement processes are designed using symmetric normalized Hadamard matrix, some basic gates and one typical conditional gate, which are introduced here for the first time.

id: quant-ph/0402142
title: Scattering of dark-state polaritons in optical lattices and quantum phase gate for photons
authors: M. Masalas, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402142
abstract: We discuss the quasi 1-D scattering of two counter-propagating, dark-state polaritons (DSP), each containing a single excitation. DSPs are formed from photons in media with electromagnetically induced transparency and are associated with ultra-slow group velocities. State-dependent elastic collisions of atoms at the same lattice site lead to a nonlinear interaction. It is shown that the scattering process in a deep optical lattice filled by cold atoms generates a large and homogeneous conditional phase shift between two individual polaritons. The latter has potential applications for a photonic phase gate. The quasi 1-D scattering problem is solved analytically and the influence of degrading processes such as dephasing due to collisions with ground-state atoms is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0402143
title: Optimal Control of Quantum Dissipative Dynamics: Analytic solution for cooling the three level $$ system
authors: Shlomo E. Sklarz, David J. Tannor, Navin Khaneja
comments: 9 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402143
abstract: We study the problem of optimal control of dissipative quantum dynamics. Although under most circumstances dissipation leads to an increase in entropy (or a decrease in purity) of the system, there is an important class of problems for which dissipation with external control can decrease the entropy (or increase the purity) of the system. An important example is laser cooling. In such systems, there is an interplay of the Hamiltonian part of the dynamics, which is controllable and the dissipative part of the dynamics, which is uncontrollable. The strategy is to control the Hamiltonian portion of the evolution in such a way that the dissipation causes the purity of the system to increase rather than decrease. The goal of this paper is to find the strategy that leads to maximal purity at the final time. Under the assumption that Hamiltonian control is complete and arbitrarily fast, we provide a general framework by which to calculate optimal cooling strategies. These assumptions lead to a great simplification, in which the control problem can be reformulated in terms of the spectrum of eigenvalues of $\rho$, rather than $\rho$ itself. By combining this formulation with the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman theorem we are able to obtain an equation for the globaly optimal cooling strategy in terms of the spectrum of the density matrix. For the three-level $\Lambda$ system, we provide a complete analytic solution for the optimal cooling strategy. For this system it is found that the optimal strategy does not exploit system coherences and is a 'greedy' strategy, in which the purity is increased maximally at each instant.

id: quant-ph/0402144
title: Dissipative quantum dynamics with the Surrogate Hamiltonian approach. A comparison between spin and harmonic baths
authors: D. Gelman, C.P. Koch, R. Kosloff
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures. The following article has been submitted to the Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 121, 661 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402144
abstract: The dissipative quantum dynamics of an anharmonic oscillator coupled to a bath is studied with the purpose of elucidating the differences between the relaxation to a spin bath and to a harmonic bath. Converged results are obtained for the spin bath by the Surrogate Hamiltonian approach. This method is based on constructing a system-bath Hamiltonian, with a finite but large number of spin bath modes, that mimics exactly a bath with an infinite number of modes for a finite time interval. Convergence with respect to the number of simultaneous excitations of bath modes can be checked. The results are compared to calculations that include a finite number of harmonic modes carried out by using the multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method of Nest and Meyer, [J. Chem. Phys. 119, 24 (2003)]. In the weak coupling regime, at zero temperature and for small excitations of the primary system, both methods converge to the Markovian limit. When initially the primary system is significantly excited, the spin bath can saturate restricting the energy acceptance. An interaction term between bath modes that spreads the excitation eliminates the saturation. The loss of phase between two cat states has been analyzed and the results for the spin and harmonic baths are almost identical. For stronger couplings, the dynamics induced by the two types of baths deviate. The accumulation and degree of entanglement between the bath modes have been characterized. Only in the spin bath the dynamics generate entanglement between the bath modes.

id: quant-ph/0402145
title: Etude du couplage optomecanique dans une cavite de grande finesse. Observation du mouvement Brownien d'un miroir
authors: Yassine Hadjar
comments: 
journal: Thesis, Universite Pierre et Marie Curie - Paris VI (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402145
abstract: The topic of this thesis is the theoretical analysis of the optomechanical coupling effects in a high-finesse optical cavity, and the experimental realization of such a device. Radiation pressure exerted by light limits the sensitivity of high precision optical measurements. In particular, the sensitivity of interferometric measurements of gravitational wave is limited by the so called standard quantum limit. cavity with a movable mirror. The internal field stored in such cavity can be orders of magnitude greater than the input field, and it's radiation pressure force can change the physical length of the cavity. In turn, any change in the mirror's position changes the phase of the out put field. This optomechanical coupling leads to an intensity-dependent phase shift for the light equivalent to an optical Kerr effect. Such a device can then be used for squeezing generation or quantum nondemolition measurements. In our experiment, we send a laser beam in to a high-finesse optical cavity with a movable mirror coated on a high Q-factor mechanical resonator. Quantum effects of radiation pressure become therefore, at low temperature, experimentally observable. However, we've shown that the phase of the reflected field is very sensitive to small mirror displacements, which indicate other possible applications of this type of device like high precision displacements measurements. We've been able to observe the Brownian motion of the moving mirror. We've also used an auxiliary intensity modulated laser beam to optically excite the acoustic modes. We've finally obtained a sensitivity of 2x10^(-19) m/sqrt(Hz), in agreement with theoretical prediction.

id: quant-ph/0402146
title: Decoherence of matter waves by thermal emission of radiation
authors: Lucia Hackermueller, Klaus Hornberger, Bjoern Brezger, Anton Zeilinger, Markus Arndt
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 427, 711-714 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402146
abstract: Emergent quantum technologies have led to increasing interest in decoherence - the processes that limit the appearance of quantum effects and turn them into classical phenomena. One important cause of decoherence is the interaction of a quantum system with its environment, which 'entangles' the two and distributes the quantum coherence over so many degrees of freedom as to render it unobservable. Decoherence theory has been complemented by experiments using matter waves coupled to external photons or molecules, and by investigations using coherent photon states, trapped ions and electron interferometers. Large molecules are particularly suitable for the investigation of the quantum-classical transition because they can store much energy in numerous internal degrees of freedom; the internal energy can be converted into thermal radiation and thus induce decoherence. Here we report matter wave interferometer experiments in which C70 molecules lose their quantum behaviour by thermal emission of radiation. We find good quantitative agreement between our experimental observations and microscopic decoherence theory. Decoherence by emission of thermal radiation is a general mechanism that should be relevant to all macroscopic bodies.

id: quant-ph/0402147
title: On parametric type interaction between light and atomic ensembles
authors: V.N. Gorbachev, A.I. Zhiliba, A.A. Rodichkina, A.I.Trubilko
comments: 5 pages, submitted to PLA
journal: Phys.Lett. A 323, 339 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402147
abstract: One-photon and Raman type interactions between two-level atoms and narrow-band light are considered. We give some exactly solvable models of these processes when only one-photon Fock states are involved in the evolution. Possible application of these models for generation and transformation of entangled states of the W-class, some of which demonstrate hierarchy structure, are discussed. Finally, we consider preparation of entangled chains of atomic ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0402148
title: Generalized GHZ States and Distributed Quantum Computing
authors: Anocha Yimsiriwattana, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 16 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402148
abstract: A key problem in quantum computing is finding a viable technological path toward the creation of a scalable quantum computer. One possible approach toward solving part of this problem is distributed computing, which provides an effective way of utilizing a network of limited capacity quantum computers. In this paper, we present two primitive operations, cat-entangler and cat-disentangler, which in turn can be used to implement non-local operations, e.g. non-local CNOT and quantum teleportation. We also show how to establish an entangled pair, and use entangled pairs to efficiently create a generalized GHZ state. Furthermore, we present procedures which allow us to reuse channel qubits in a sequence of non-local operations. These non-local operations work on the principle that a cat-like state, created by cat-entangler, can be used to distribute a control qubit among multiple computers. Using this principle, we show how to efficiently implement non-local control operations in many situation, including a parallel implementation of a certain kind of unitary transformation. Finally, as an example, we present a distributed version of the quantum Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0402149
title: Why the quantum?
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 23 pages, LaTeX. Forthcoming in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 2004
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 35B, 241 - 266 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402149
abstract: This paper is a commentary on the foundational significance of the Clifton-Bub-Halvorson theorem characterizing quantum theory in terms of three information-theoretic constraints (Foundations of Physics 33, 1561-1591 (2003); quant-ph/0211089). I argue that: (1) a quantum theory is best understood as a theory about the possibilities and impossibilities of information transfer, as opposed to a theory about the mechanics of nonclassical waves or particles, (2) given the information-theoretic constraints, any mechanical theory of quantum phenomena that includes an account of the measuring instruments that reveal these phenomena must be empirically equivalent to a quantum theory, and (3) assuming the information-theoretic constraints are in fact satisfied in our world, no mechanical theory of quantum phenomena that includes an account of measurement interactions can be acceptable, and the appropriate aim of physics at the fundamental level then becomes the representation and manipulation of information.

id: quant-ph/0402150
title: A General Method for Complete Population Transfer in Degenerate Systems
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Stuart A. Rice
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 063410 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402150
abstract: A simple theoretical solution to the design of a control field that generates complete population transfer from an initial state, via $N$ nondegenerate intermediate states, to one arbitrary member of $M$ ($M\leq N$) degenerate states is constructed. The full control field exploits an $(M+N-1)$-node null adiabatic state, created by designing the relative phases and amplitudes of the component fields that together make up the full field. The solution found is universal in the sense that it does not depend on the exact number of the unwanted degenerate states or their properties. The results obtained suggest that a class of multi-level quantum systems with degenerate states can be completely controllable, even under extremely strong constraints, e.g., never populating a Hilbert subspace that is only a few dimensions smaller than the whole Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0402151
title: Mutual information, bit error rate and security in Wjcik's scheme
authors: Zhanjun Zhang
comments: In this paper the correct calculations of the mutual information of the whole transmission, the quantum bit error rate (QBER) are presented. Mistakes of the general conclusions relative to the mutual information, the quantum bit error rate (QBER) and the security in W\'{o}jcik's paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 157901(2003)] have been pointed out. Also I hope experts can give me some help in addressing the question I present in this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402151
abstract: In this paper the correct calculations of the mutual information of the whole transmission, the quantum bit error rate (QBER) are presented. Mistakes of the general conclusions relative to the mutual information, the quantum bit error rate (QBER) and the security in W\'{o}jcik's paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 157901(2003)] have been pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0402152
title: Collective effects in the dynamics of driven atoms in a high-Q resonator
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, significantly extended version, slightly different from the published one
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 31, 507 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402152
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of N coherently driven two-level atoms coupled to an optical resonator. In the strong coupling regime the cavity field generated by atomic scattering interferes destructively with the pump on the atoms. This suppresses atomic excitation and even for strong driving fields prevents atomic saturation, while the stationary intracavity field amplitude is almost independent of the atom number. The magnitude of the interference effect depends on the detuning between laser and cavity field and on the relative atomic positions and is strongest for a wavelength spaced lattice of atoms placed at the antinodes of the cavity mode. In this case three dimensional intensity minima are created in the vicinity of each atom. In this regime spontaneous emission is suppressed and the dominant loss channel is cavity decay. Even for a cavity linewidth larger than the atomic natural width, one regains strong interference through the cooperative action of a sufficiently large number of atoms. These results give a new key to understand recent experiments on collective cavity cooling and may allow to implement fast tailored atom-atom interactions as well as nonperturbative particle detection with very small energy transfer.

id: quant-ph/0402153
title: Quantum mechanics from two physical postulates
authors: Mohammad Mehrafarin
comments: 15 pages, REVTEX4
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 44 (2005) 429
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402153
abstract: For an arbitrary preparation, quantum mechanical descriptions refer to the complementary contexts set by incompatible measurements. We argue that an arbitrary preparation, therefore, should be described with respect to such a context by its degrees of disturbance (represented by real numbers) and their probability distribution (postulate 1). Measurement contexts thus provide reference frames for the preparation space of a physical system; a preparation being described by a point in this space with the aforementioned as its coordinates relative to a given measurement apparatus. However, all measurement contexts are equivalent with regard to the description of a given preparation; there is no preferred measurement (postulate 2). In the framework provided by the preparation space, we show that quantum mechanics emerges naturally from the above postulates in a new formulation which is manifestly canonical; provided the degrees of disturbance are identified with the quantum phases of the preparation with respect to (the basis furnished by) the measurement apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0402154
title: Zitterbewegung and semiclassical observables for the Dirac equation
authors: Jens Bolte, Rainer Glaser
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 6359-6373
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402154
abstract: In a semiclassical context we investigate the Zitterbewegung of relativistic particles with spin 1/2 moving in external fields. It is shown that the analogue of Zitterbewegung for general observables can be removed to arbitrary order in \hbar by projecting to dynamically almost invariant subspaces of the quantum mechanical Hilbert space which are associated with particles and anti-particles. This not only allows to identify observables with a semiclassical meaning, but also to recover combined classical dynamics for the translational and spin degrees of freedom. Finally, we discuss properties of eigenspinors of a Dirac-Hamiltonian when these are projected to the almost invariant subspaces, including the phenomenon of quantum ergodicity.

id: quant-ph/0402155
title: Two-Photon Absorption
authors: I. Perez-Arjona, G.J. de Valcarcel, Eugenio Roldan
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures. Didactic article
journal: Revista Mexicana de Fisica 49 (2003) 91-100
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402155
abstract: Two-photon absorption is theoretically analyzed within the semiclassical formalism of radiation-matter interaction. We consider an ensemble of inhomogeneously broadened three-level atoms subjected to the action of two counterpropagating fields of the same frequency. By concentrating in the limit of large detuning in one-photon transitions, we solve perturbatively the Bloch equations in a non-usual way. In this way we derive an analytical expression for the width of the two-photon resonance that makes evident sub-Doppler two--photon spectroscopy. We also derive an analytical expression for the Stark shift of the two-photon resonance.

id: quant-ph/0402156
title: Measurement-Based Quantum Turing Machines and Questions of Universalities
authors: Simon Perdrix, Philippe Jorrand
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402156
abstract: Quantum measurement is universal for quantum computation. This universality allows alternative schemes to the traditional three-step organisation of quantum computation: initial state preparation, unitary transformation, measurement. In order to formalize these other forms of computation, while pointing out the role and the necessity of classical control in measurement-based computation, and for establishing a new upper bound of the minimal resources needed to quantum universality, a formal model is introduced by means of Measurement-based Quantum Turing Machines.

id: quant-ph/0402157
title: Pseudo-random operators of the circular ensembles
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to be published PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 71, 014303, (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402157
abstract: We demonstrate quantum algorithms to implement pseudo-random operators that closely reproduce statistical properties of random matrices from the three universal classes: unitary, symmetric, and symplectic. Modified versions of the algorithms are introduced for the less experimentally challenging quantum cellular automata. For implementing pseudo-random symplectic operators we provide gate sequences for the unitary part of the time-reversal operator.

id: quant-ph/0402158
title: Estimation of a classical parameter with gaussian probes: magnetometry with collective atomic spins
authors: Klaus Molmer, Lars Bojer Madsen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 70, 052102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402158
abstract: We present a theory for the estimation of a classical magnetic field by an atomic sample with a gaussian distribution of collective spin components. By incorporating the magnetic field and the probing laser field as quantum variables with gaussian distributions on equal footing with the atoms, we obtain a very versatile description which is readily adapted to include probing with squeezed light, dissipation and loss and additional measurement capabilities on the atomic system.

id: quant-ph/0402159
title: Time evolution, cyclic solutions and geometric phases for the generalized time-dependent harmonic oscillator
authors: Qiong-Gui Lin
comments: revtex4, 28 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) 1345-1371
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402159
abstract: The generalized time-dependent harmonic oscillator is studied. Though several approaches to the solution of this model have been available, yet a new approach is presented here, which is very suitable for the study of cyclic solutions and geometric phases. In this approach, finding the time evolution operator for the Schr\"odinger equation is reduced to solving an ordinary differential equation for a c-number vector which moves on a hyperboloid in a three-dimensional space. Cyclic solutions do not exist for all time intervals. A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of cyclic solutions is given. There may exist some particular time interval in which all solutions with definite parity, or even all solutions, are cyclic. Criterions for the appearance of such cases are given. The known relation that the nonadiabatic geometric phase for a cyclic solution is proportional to the classical Hannay angle is reestablished. However, this is valid only for special cyclic solutions. For more general ones, the nonadiabatic geometric phase may contain an extra term. Several cases with relatively simple Hamiltonians are solved and discussed in detail. Cyclic solutions exist in most cases. The pattern of the motion, say, finite or infinite, can not be simply determined by the nature of the Hamiltonian (elliptic or hyperbolic, etc.). For a Hamiltonian with a definite nature, the motion can changes from one pattern to another, that is, some kind of phase transition may occur, if some parameter in the Hamiltonian goes through some critical value.

id: quant-ph/0402160
title: Ghost imaging using homodyne detection
authors: M. Bache, E. Brambilla, A. Gatti, L. A. Lugiato
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 70, 023823 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402160
abstract: We present a theoretical study of ghost imaging based on correlated beams arising from parametric down-conversion, and which uses balanced homodyne detection to measure both the signal and idler fields. We analytically show that the signal-idler correlations contain the full amplitude and phase information about an object located in the signal path, both in the near-field and the far-field case. To this end we discuss how to optimize the optical setups in the two imaging paths, including the crucial point regarding how to engineer the phase of the idler local oscillator as to observe the desired orthogonal quadrature components of the image. We point out an inherent link between the far-field bandwidth and the near-field resolution of the reproduced image, determined by the bandwidth of the source of the correlated beams. However, we show how to circumvent this limitation by using a spatial averaging technique which dramatically improves the imaging bandwidth of the far-field correlations as well as speeds up the convergence rate. The results are backed up by numerical simulations taking into account the finite size and duration of the pump pulse.

id: quant-ph/0402161
title: Proposal for optically realizing quantum game
authors: Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 315 (2003) 426-430
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402161
abstract: We present a proposal for optically implementing the quantum game of the two-player quantum prisoner's dilemma involving nonmaximally entangled states by using beam splitters, phase shifters, cross-Kerr medium, photon detector and the single-photon representation of quantum bits.

id: quant-ph/0402162
title: Diffraction of ultra-cold fermions by quantized light fields: Standing versus traveling waves
authors: D. Meiser, C. P. Search, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402162
abstract: We study the diffraction of quantum degenerate fermionic atoms off of quantized light fields in an optical cavity. We compare the case of a linear cavity with standing wave modes to that of a ring cavity with two counter-propagating traveling wave modes. It is found that the dynamics of the atoms strongly depends on the quantization procedure for the cavity field. For standing waves, no correlations develop between the cavity field and the atoms. Consequently, standing wave Fock states yield the same results as a classical standing wave field while coherent states give rise to a collapse and revivals in the scattering of the atoms. In contrast, for traveling waves the scattering results in quantum entanglement of the radiation field and the atoms. This leads to a collapse and revival of the scattering probability even for Fock states. The Pauli Exclusion Principle manifests itself as an additional dephasing of the scattering probability.

id: quant-ph/0402163
title: Laser Polarization Effects in Supercontinuum Generation
authors: Alok Srivastava, Debabrata Goswami
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402163
abstract: We present experimental evidence of a fourth order process in electric field in supercontinuum generation. We also show laser induced polarization preference in the supercontinuum generating media. These results have become possible through the choice of isotropic and anisotropic samples interacting with ultrashort laser pulses of changing ellipticity. Laser polarization emerges as an important control parameter for the highly nonlinear phenomenon of supercontinuum generation.

id: quant-ph/0402164
title: Quantum Fluctuations around Bistable Solitons in the Cubic-Quintic nonlinear Schr?dinger equation
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai, Boris A. Malomed
comments: submitted t J. Opt. B for publish
journal: J. Opt. B, 6, 367 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402164
abstract: Small quantum fluctuations in solitons described by the cubic-quintic nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation (CQNLSE) are studied with the linear approximation. The cases of both self-defocusing and self-focusing quintic term are considered (in the latter case, solitons may be effectively stable, despite the possibility of collapse). The numerically implemented back-propagation method is used to calculate the optimal squeezing ratio for the quantum fluctuations vs. the propagation distance. In the case of the self-defocusing quintic nonlinearity, opposite signs in front of the cubic and quintic terms make the fluctuations around bistable pairs of solitons (which have different energies for the same width) totally different. The fluctuations around nonstationary Gaussian pulses in the CQNLSE model are studied too.

id: quant-ph/0402165
title: Holonomic Quantum Computing Based on the Stark Effect
authors: B.A. Bernevig, S.C. Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 035303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402165
abstract: We propose a spin manipulation technique based entirely on electric fields applied to acceptor states in $p$-type semiconductors with spin-orbit coupling. While interesting in its own right, the technique can also be used to implement fault-resilient holonomic quantum computing. We explicitly compute adiabatic transformation matrix (holonomy) of the degenerate states and comment on the feasibility of the scheme as an experimental technique.

id: quant-ph/0402166
title: Quantum process tomography of a controlled-NOT gate
authors: J. L. O'Brien, G. J. Pryde, A. Gilchrist, D. F. V. James, N. K. Langford, T. C. Ralph, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2 contains new data corresponding to improved gate operation. Figure quality slightly reduced for arXiv
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.93:080502,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402166
abstract: We demonstrate complete characterization of a two-qubit entangling process - a linear optics controlled-NOT gate operating with coincident detection - by quantum process tomography. We use maximum-likelihood estimation to convert the experimental data into a physical process matrix. The process matrix allows accurate prediction of the operation of the gate for arbitrary input states, and calculation of gate performance measures such as the average gate fidelity, average purity and entangling capability of our gate, which are 0.90, 0.83 and 0.73, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0402167
title: Solitons Formed by Dark-State Polaritons in Electromagnetic Induced Transparency
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Phys. Rev. A, to be published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 055802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402167
abstract: We show the possible stable soliton generation for the dark-state polaritons (DSPs) in an electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) medium composed of $\Lambda$-type atoms. Whether the solitons are dark or bright can be controlled by the coupling field intensity and the one photon detuning of the probe field. Besides, the velocity and time width of the solitons also can be adjusted by the coupling light.

id: quant-ph/0402168
title: The Interference Term in the Wigner Distribution Function and the Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYS. LETT. A 285, 109-114, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402168
abstract: A phase space representation of the Aharonov-Bohm effect is presented. It shows that the shift of interference fringes is associated to the interference term of the Wigner distribution function of the total wavefunction, whereas the interference pattern is defined by the common projections of the Wigner distribution functions of the interfering beams

id: quant-ph/0402169
title: Bell's inequality for conditional probabilities as a test for quantum-like behaviour of mind
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402169
abstract: We define quantum-like probabilistic behaviour as behaviour which is impossible to describe by using the classical probability model. We discuss the conjecture that cognitive behaviour is quantum-like. There is presented the scheme for an experimental test for quantum-like cognitive behaviour based on a generalization of the famous Bell's inequality. This generalization is an analogue of Bell's inequality, but for conditional probabilities. The use of conditional probabilities (instead of simultaneous probability distributions for pairs of observables in the original Bell's inequality) gives the possibility to separate two problems which are mixed in the original Bell's framework: nonlocality and nonclassical (quantum-like) probabilistic behaviour. Our inequality for conditional probabilities can be used for experiments with a single system (so we need not to prepare pairs of correlated systems) to find quantum-like behaviour. This possibility is extremely important in cognitive sciences where it is practically impossible to prepare pairs of precisely correlated cognitive systems.

id: quant-ph/0402170
title: Unconditional Security of Practical Quantum Key Distribution
authors: H. J. Hupkes
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402170
abstract: We present an extension of the first proof for the unconditional security of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol which was given by Mayers. We remove the constraint that a perfect BB84 quantum source is required and the proof given here covers a range of practical quantum sources. Nothing is assumed about the detector except that the efficiency with which signals are detected is basis independent.

id: quant-ph/0402171
title: Fault-Tolerant Postselected Quantum Computation: Schemes
authors: E. Knill
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402171
abstract: Postselected quantum computation is distinguished from regular quantum computation by accepting the output only if measurement outcomes satisfy predetermined conditions. The output must be accepted with nonzero probability. Methods for implementing postselected quantum computation with noisy gates are proposed. These methods are based on error-detecting codes. Conditionally on detecting no errors, it is expected that the encoded computation can be made to be arbitrarily accurate. Although the probability of success of the encoded computation decreases dramatically with accuracy, it is possible to apply the proposed methods to the problem of preparing arbitrary stabilizer states in large error-correcting codes with local residual errors. Together with teleported error-correction, this may improve the error tolerance of non-postselected quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0402172
title: Charge Qubit Storage and Its Engineered Decoherence via Microwave Cavity
authors: Y.B. Gao, C. Li
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 43 (2005) pp. 213-218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402172
abstract: We study the entanglement of the superconducting charge qubit with the quantized electromagnetic field in a microwave cavity. It can be controlled dynamically by a classical external field threading the SQUID within the charge qubit. Utilizing the controllable quantum entanglement, we can demonstrate the dynamic process of the quantum storage of information carried by charge qubit. On the other hand, based on this engineered quantum entanglement, we can also demonstrate a progressive decoherence of charge qubit with quantum jump due to the coupling with the cavity field in quasi-classical state.

id: quant-ph/0402173
title: Generation of multi-photon Fock states by bichromatic adiabatic passage: topological analysis
authors: M. Amniat-Talab, S. Lagrange, S. Guerin, H.R. Jauslin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 70, 013807(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402173
abstract: We propose a robust scheme to generate multi-photon Fock states in an atom-maser-cavity system using adiabatic passage techniques and topological properties of the dressed eigenenergy surfaces. The mechanism is an exchange of photons from the maser field into the initially empty cavity by bichromatic adiabatic passage. The number of exchanged photons depends on the design of the adiabatic dynamics through and around the conical intersections of dressed eigenenergy surfaces.

id: quant-ph/0402174
title: Categorical Foundations of Quantum Logics and Their Truth Values Structures
authors: Elias Zafiris
comments: 42 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402174
abstract: We introduce a foundational sheaf theoretical scheme for the comprehension of quantum event structures, in terms of localization systems consisting of Boolean coordinatization coverings induced by measurement. The scheme is based on the existence of a categorical adjunction between presheaves of Boolean event algebras and Quantum event algebras. On the basis of this adjoint correspondence we prove the existence of an object of truth values in the category of quantum logics, characterized as subobject classifier. This classifying object plays the equivalent role that the two-valued Boolean truth values object plays in classical event structures. We construct the object of quantum truth values explicitly and argue that it constitutes the appropriate choice for the valuation of propositions describing the behavior of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0402175
title: Quantum Memory Based on $$-Atoms Ensemble with Two-Photon Resonance EIT
authors: Y. Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402175
abstract: We study the $\Lambda$-atoms ensemble based quantum memory for the storage of the quantum information carried by a probe light field. Two atomic Rabi transitions of the ensemble are coupled to the quantum probe field and classical control field respectively with a same detuning. Making use of the hidden symmetry analysis developed recently for the on-resonance EIT case (Sun, Li, and Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 147903 (2003)), we show that the dark states and dark-state polaritons can still exist for the case of two-photon resonance EIT. Starting from these dark states we construct a complete class of eigen-states of the total system. A explicit form of the adiabatic condition is also given in order to achieve the memory and retrieve of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0402176
title: Loss of quantum coherence in a system coupled to a zero-temperature environment
authors: A. Ratchov, F. Faure, F. W. J. Hekking
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402176
abstract: We discuss the influence of a zero-temperature environment on a coherent quantum system. First, we calculate the reduced density operator of the system in the framework of the well-known, exactly solvable model of an oscillator coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators. Then, we propose the sketch of an Aharonov--Bohm-like interferometer showing, through interference measurements, the decrease of the coherence length of the system due to the interaction with the environment, even in the zero temperature limit.

id: quant-ph/0402177
title: Non-Abelian Geometric Quantum Memory with Atomic Ensemble
authors: Y. Li, P. Zhang, P. Zanardi, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402177
abstract: We study a quantum information storage scheme based on an atomic ensemble with near (also exact) three-photon resonance electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). Each 4-level-atom is coupled to two classical control fields and a quantum probe field. Quantum information is adiabatically stored in the associated dark polariton manifold. An intrinsic non-trivial topological structure is discovered in our quantum memory implemented through the symmetric collective atomic excitations with a hidden SU(3) dynamical symmetry. By adiabatically changing the Rabi frequencies of two classical control fields, the quantum state can be retrieved up to a non-abelian holonomy and thus decoded from the final state in a purely geometric way.

id: quant-ph/0402178
title: On the structure of optimal sets for tensor product channel
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 25 pages
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, Vol. 42, No. 4, (2006), 23--40
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402178
abstract: For a given quantum channel we consider two optimal sets of states, related to the Holevo capacity and to the minimal output entropy of this channel. Some properties of these sets as well as the necessary and sufficient condition for their coincidence are obtained. The relations between additivity properties for two quantum channels and the structure of the optimal sets for tensor product of these channels are considered. It turns out that these additivity properties are connected with the special hereditary property of the optimal sets for tensor product channel. We explore the structural properties of these optimal sets under two different assumptions. The first assumption means that for tensor product of two channels with arbitrary constraints there exists optimal ensemble with the product state average. It turns out that exactly this assumption guarantees hereditary property of the both optimal sets for tensor product channel and provides some observations concerning the additivity problems. The second assumption means additivity of the Holevo capacity for two channels with arbitrary constraints. It turns out that exactly this assumption guarantees strong hereditary property of the both optimal sets for tensor product channel and provides the natural "projective" relations between these sets and the optimal sets for single channels.

id: quant-ph/0402179
title: Quantum tomography for solid state qubits
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages
journal: Europhysics Letters 67, 874-880 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402179
abstract: We propose a method for the tomographic reconstruction of qubit states for a general class of solid state systems in which the Hamiltonians are represented by spin operators, e.g., with Heisenberg-, $XXZ$-, or XY- type exchange interactions. We analyze the implementation of the projective operator measurements, or spin measurements, on qubit states. All the qubit states for the spin Hamiltonians can be reconstructed by using experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0402180
title: Nonlinear extensions of Schr?dinger-von Neumann quantum dynamics: a list of conditions for compatibility with thermodynamics
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, Vol. 20, 977-984 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402180
abstract: We propose a list of conditions that consistency with thermodynamics imposes on linear and nonlinear generalizations of standard unitary quantum mechanics that assume a set of true quantum states without the restriction $\rho^2=\rho$ even for strictly isolated systems and that are to be considered in experimental tests of the existence of intrinsic (spontaneous) decoherence at the microscopic level.

id: quant-ph/0402181
title: Sequential Probability Ratio Test for the detection of a single electron spin in the OSCAR setup
authors: Cyril Hory, Alfred O. Hero
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402181
abstract: The MRFM device is a powerful setup for manipulating single electron spin in resonance in a magnetic field. However, the real time observation of a resonating spin is still an issue because of the very low SNR of the output signal. This paper investigates the usability and the efficiency of sequential detection schemes (the Sequential Probability Ratio Test) to decrease the required integration time, in comparison to standard fixed time detection schemes.

id: quant-ph/0402182
title: Preparation and Entanglement Purification of Qubits through Zeno-like Measurements
authors: Hiromichi Nakazato, Makoto Unoki, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures; minor revision on a reference; the version accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 012303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402182
abstract: A novel method of purification, purification through Zeno-like measurements [H. Nakazato, T. Takazawa, and K. Yuasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 060401 (2003)], is discussed extensively and applied to a few simple qubit systems. It is explicitly demonstrated how it works and how it is optimized. As possible applications, schemes for initialization of multiple qubits and entanglement purification are presented, and their efficiency is investigated in detail. Simplicity and flexibility of the idea allow us to apply it to various kinds of settings in quantum information and computation, and would provide us with useful and practical methods of state preparation.

id: quant-ph/0402183
title: Purification of Quantum State through Zeno-like Measurements
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Hiromichi Nakazato, Tomoko Takazawa
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; Contribution to the Proceedings of "Waseda International Symposium on Fundamental Physics: New Perspectives in Quantum Physics", Tokyo, 2002
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 72 Suppl. C (2003) 34-37
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402183
abstract: We present a novel procedure to purify quantum states, i.e., purification through Zeno-like measurements. By simply repeating one and the same measurement on a quantum system, one can purify another system in interaction with the former. The conditions for the (efficient) purification are specified on a rather general setting, and the framework of the method possesses wide applicability. It is explicitly demonstrated on a specific setup that the purification becomes very efficient by tuning relevant parameters.

id: quant-ph/0402184
title: Entanglement Purification through Zeno-like Measurements
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Hiromichi Nakazato, Makoto Unoki
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; Contribution to the Proceedings of "Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics", Gargnano, Italy, 2003 (to be published in J. Mod. Opt.)
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51 (2004) 1005-1009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402184
abstract: We present a novel method to purify quantum states, i.e. purification through Zeno-like measurements, and show an application to entanglement purification.

id: quant-ph/0402185
title: Exactly Solvable Many-Body Systems and Pseudo-Hermitian Point Interactions
authors: Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 7 pages
journal: Czech J. Phys. 54(2004)43-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402185
abstract: We study Hamiltonian systems with point interactions and give a systematic description of the corresponding boundary conditions and the spectrum properties for self-adjoint, PT-symmetric systems and systems with real spectra. The integrability of one dimensional many body systems with these kinds of point (contact) interactions are investigated for both bosonic and fermionic statistics.

id: quant-ph/0402186
title: Simultaneous arrival of information in absorbing wave guides
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402186
abstract: We demonstrate that the temporal peak generated by specific electromagnetic pulses may arrive at different positions simultaneously in an absorbing wave guide. The effect can be used for triggering several devices all at once at unknown distances from the sender or generally to transmit information so that it arrives at the same time to receivers at different, unknown locations. This simultaneity cannot be realized by the standard transmission methods.

id: quant-ph/0402187
title: Pseudo Memory Effects, Majorization and Entropy in Quantum Random Walks
authors: Anthony J. Bracken, Demosthenes Ellinas, Ioannis Tsohantjis
comments: 3 figures included
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Gen. 37 (2004) L91-L97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402187
abstract: A quantum random walk on the integers exhibits pseudo memory effects, in that its probability distribution after N steps is determined by reshuffling the first N distributions that arise in a classical random walk with the same initial distribution. In a classical walk, entropy increase can be regarded as a consequence of the majorization ordering of successive distributions. The Lorenz curves of successive distributions for a symmetric quantum walk reveal no majorization ordering in general. Nevertheless, entropy can increase, and computer experiments show that it does so on average. Varying the stages at which the quantum coin system is traced out leads to new quantum walks, including a symmetric walk for which majorization ordering is valid but the spreading rate exceeds that of the usual symmetric quantum walk.

id: quant-ph/0402188
title: Supersymmetry and Qubit Field Theory
authors: J. Hruby
comments: 20 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402188
abstract: Supersymmetric extension of the Deutsch's qubit field theory is presented and a new solution of quantum information paradox via anticommuting qubit-fields condensate is shown.

id: quant-ph/0402189
title: Generation of nonclassical photon states using a superconducting qubit in a microcavity
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages
journal: Europhysics Letters 67, 941-947 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402189
abstract: Based on the interaction between the radiation field and a superconductor, we propose a way to engineer quantum states using a SQUID charge qubit inside a microcavity. This device can act as a deterministic single photon source as well as generate any Fock states and an arbitrary superposition of Fock states for the cavity field. The controllable interaction between the cavity field and the qubit can be realized by the tunable gate voltage and classical magnetic field applied to the SQUID.

id: quant-ph/0402190
title: Entanglement of a Multiparticle Schroedinger Cat State
authors: A. N. Salgueiro
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402190
abstract: We characterize the degree of entanglement of a subsystem of $k$ particles in a $N$-two level system ($k\leq N/2$) initially prepared in a mesoscopic superposition $|\psi>=\int d\theta f(\theta) (|\phi_{1}(\theta)>^{\otimes N}+|\phi_{2}(\theta)>^{\otimes N})$, where $f(\theta)$ is a gaussian or a delta function, subject to the time evolution described by a dephasing channel. Negativity is used as a measure of entanglement for such system. For an arbitrary number of particles $N$, numerical results are given for the full time evolution up to ten particles. Analytical results are obtained for short times and asymptotic time regimes. We show that negativity is initially proportional to the square root of the product of the number of particles in each partition, the overlap ${|<\phi_1(\theta)|\phi_2(\theta)>|}^2$ and the coupling to the environment. Asymptotically, negativity tends to zero, a necessary condition for separability.

id: quant-ph/0402191
title: Optical-fiber source of polarization-entangled photon pairs in the 1550nm telecom band
authors: Xiaoying Li, Paul L. Voss, Jay E. Sharping, Prem Kumar
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, to be submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. See also paper QTuB4 in QELS'03 Technical Digest (OSA, Washington, D.C., 2003). This is a more complete version
journal: Phy. Rev. Lett. vol. 94, 053601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402191
abstract: We present a fiber based source of polarization-entangled photon pairs that is well suited for quantum communication applications in the 1550nm band of standard fiber-optic telecommunications. Polarization entanglement is created by pumping a nonlinear-fiber Sagnac interferometer with two time-delayed orthogonally-polarized pump pulses and subsequently removing the time distinguishability by passing the parametrically scattered signal-idler photon pairs through a piece of birefringent fiber. Coincidence detection of the signal-idler photons yields biphoton interference with visibility greater than 90%, while no interference is observed in direct detection of either the signal or the idler photons. All four Bell states can be prepared with our setup and we demonstrate violations of CHSH form of Bell's inequalities by up to 10 standard deviations of measurement uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0402192
title: Non-gaussian statistics from individual pulses of squeezed light
authors: J. Wenger, R. Tualle-Brouri, P. Grangier
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 92, 153601 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402192
abstract: We describe the observation of a degaussification protocol that maps individual pulses of squeezed light onto non-Gaussian states. This effect is obtained by sending a small fraction of the squeezed vacuum beam onto an avalanche photodiode, and by conditioning the single-shot homodyne detection of the remaining state upon the photon-counting events. The experimental data provides a clear evidence of phase-dependent non-Gaussian statistics. This protocol is closely related to the first step of an entanglement distillation procedure for continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0402193
title: Pulsed homodyne measurements of femtosecond squeezed pulses generated by single-pass parametric deamplification
authors: J. Wenger, R. Tualle-Brouri, P. Grangier
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 29, 1267 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402193
abstract: A new scheme is described for pulsed squeezed light generation using femtosecond pulses parametrically deamplified through a single pass in a thin (0.1mm) potassium niobate KNbO3 crystal, with a significant deamplification of about -3dB. The quantum noise of each individual pulse is registered in the time domain using a single-shot homodyne detection operated with femtosecond pulses and the best squeezed quadrature variance was measured to be 1.87 dB below the shot noise level. Such a scheme provides the basic ressource for time-resolved quantum communication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0402194
title: Generation of nonlinear coherent states in a coherently pumped micromaser under intensity-dependent Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: M.H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi, R. Roknizadeh
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402194
abstract: In this paper the possibility of generating nonlinear coherent states of the radiation field in a micromaser is explored. It is shown that these states can be provided in a lossless micromaser cavity under the weak Jaynes-Cummings interaction with intensity-dependent coupling of large number of individually injected two-level atoms in a coherent superposition of the upper and lower states. In particular, we show that the so-called nonlinear squeezed vacuum and nonlinear squeezed first excited states, as well as the even and odd nonlinear coherent states can be generated in the presence of two-photon transitions.

id: quant-ph/0402195
title: Dynamical properties of a two-level atom in three variants of the two-photon q-deformed Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi, R. Roknizadeh
comments: 39 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402195
abstract: Temporal evolution of atomic properties including the population inversion and quantum fluctuations of atomic dipole variables are discussed in three various variants of two-photon q-deformed Jaynes-Cummings model.With the the field initially being in three different types of q-deformed coherent states,the quantum collapse and revival effects as well as atomic diploe squeezing are studied for both on-and off-resonant atom-field interaction. Particularly, it is shown that for nonzero detuning the atomic inversion exhibits superstructures which are absent in the non-deformed Jaynes-Cummings model and the dipole squeezing may be enhanced.

id: quant-ph/0402196
title: Implementation of Shor's Algorithm on a Linear Nearest Neighbour Qubit Array
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Simon J. Devitt, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quant. Info. Comput. 4, 237-251 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402196
abstract: Shor's algorithm, which given appropriate hardware can factorise an integer $N$ in a time polynomial in its binary length $L$, has arguable spurred the race to build a practical quantum computer. Several different quantum circuits implementing Shor's algorithm have been designed, but each tacitly assumes that arbitrary pairs of qubits within the computer can be interacted. While some quantum computer architectures possess this property, many promising proposals are best suited to realising a single line of qubits with nearest neighbour interactions only. In light of this, we present a circuit implementing Shor's factorisation algorithm designed for such a linear nearest neighbour architecture. Despite the interaction restrictions, the circuit requires just $2L+4$ qubits and to first order requires $8L^{4}$ gates arranged in a circuit of depth $32L^{3}$ -- identical to first order to that possible using an architecture that can interact arbitrary pairs of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0402197
title: From Heisenberg to Goedel via Chaitin
authors: C.S. Calude, M.A. Stay
comments: Small changes
journal: Int. J. Th. Phys. 44(7). 2005. pp. 1053--1065
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402197
abstract: In 1927 Heisenberg discovered that the ``more precisely the position is determined, the less precisely the momentum is known in this instant, and vice versa''. Four years later G\"odel showed that a finitely specified, consistent formal system which is large enough to include arithmetic is incomplete. As both results express some kind of impossibility it is natural to ask whether there is any relation between them, and, indeed, this question has been repeatedly asked for a long time. The main interest seems to have been in possible implications of incompleteness to physics. In this note we will take interest in the {\it converse} implication and will offer a positive answer to the question: Does uncertainty imply incompleteness? We will show that algorithmic randomness is equivalent to a ``formal uncertainty principle'' which implies Chaitin's information-theoretic incompleteness. We also show that the derived uncertainty relation, for many computers, is physical. In fact, the formal uncertainty principle applies to {\it all} systems governed by the wave equation, not just quantum waves. This fact supports the conjecture that uncertainty implies randomness not only in mathematics, but also in physics.

id: quant-ph/0402198
title: Comment on "Experimental realization of a three-qubit entangled W state"
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: REVTeX4, 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402198
abstract: Recently Eibl et al. [PRL 92, 077901 (2004)] reported the experimental observation of the three-photon polarization-entangled W state. In this Comment we point out that, actually, the particular measurements involved in the experiment testing Mermin's inequality cannot be used for the verification of the existence of genuinely quantal tripartite correlations in the observed state, and therefore this state cannot conclusively be identified with the W state.

id: quant-ph/0402199
title: Quantum adiabatic optimization and combinatorial landscapes
authors: V.N. Smelyanskiy, S. Knysh, R.D. Morris
comments: 41 pages, 10 figures; added a paragraph on paper's organization to the introduction, fixed references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402199
abstract: In this paper we analyze the performance of the Quantum Adiabatic Evolution algorithm on a variant of Satisfiability problem for an ensemble of random graphs parametrized by the ratio of clauses to variables, $\gamma=M/N$. We introduce a set of macroscopic parameters (landscapes) and put forward an ansatz of universality for random bit flips. We then formulate the problem of finding the smallest eigenvalue and the excitation gap as a statistical mechanics problem. We use the so-called annealing approximation with a refinement that a finite set of macroscopic variables (versus only energy) is used, and are able to show the existence of a dynamic threshold $\gamma=\gamma_d$ starting with some value of K -- the number of variables in each clause. Beyond dynamic threshold, the algorithm should take exponentially long time to find a solution. We compare the results for extended and simplified sets of landscapes and provide numerical evidence in support of our universality ansatz. We have been able to map the ensemble of random graphs onto another ensemble with fluctuations significantly reduced. This enabled us to obtain tight upper bounds on satisfiability transition and to recompute the dynamical transition using the extended set of landscapes.

id: quant-ph/0402200
title: The concept of Existence and the derivation of a Quantum Force
authors: C. G. S. Costa
comments: 11 pages, Elsart document class
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402200
abstract: We define a new dynamical variable, the relative existence e, in terms of space and time. Taking it as a generalized positional coordinate, we show that for conservative systems the canonically conjugated momentum is identified as the classical force. Applying Wilson-Sommerfeld-Bohr's quantum conditions for a conditionally periodic motion, we derive an expression for the quantum force, F = hbar k f_e, where k is the wave number and f_e is the characteristic frequency of the system. Applying Dirac's method to the Poisson Brackets involving existence and force, we obtain the uncertainty relation Delta e Delta F >= hbar/2. The force quantization may have already been observed in stimulated bichromatic optical force experiments, used to deflect, decelerate and manipulate laser-cooled atomic beams.

id: quant-ph/0402201
title: Detector Efficiency Limits on Quantum Improvement
authors: Deborah J. Jackson, George M. Hockney
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402201
abstract: Although the National Institute of Standards and Technology has measured the intrinsic quantum efficiency of Si and InGaAs APD materials to be above 98 % by building an efficient compound detector, commercially available devices have efficiencies ranging between 15 % and 75 %. This means bandwidth, dark current, cost, and other factors are more important than quantum efficiency for existing applications. This paper systematically examines the generic detection process, lays out the considerations needed for designing detectors for non-classical applications, and identifies the ultimate physical limits on quantum efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0402202
title: Constructing finite dimensional codes with optical continuous variables
authors: S. Pirandola, S. Mancini, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 68, 323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402202
abstract: We show how a qubit can be fault-tolerantly encoded in the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of an optical mode. The scheme is efficient and realizable with present technologies. In fact, it involves two travelling optical modes coupled by a cross-Kerr interaction, initially prepared in coherent states, one of which is much more intense than the other. At the exit of the Kerr medium, the weak mode is subject to a homodyne measurement and a quantum codeword is conditionally generated in the quantum fluctuations of the intense mode.

id: quant-ph/0402203
title: The Effect of a Magnetic Flux Line in Quantum Theory
authors: Y. Aharonov, T. Kaufherr
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages with 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 92, 7, 070404 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402203
abstract: The nonloclal exchange of the conserved, gauge invariant quantity $e^{\frac{i}{\hbar} (p_{k}-\frac{e}{c}A_{k})L^{k}}, L^{k}=const., k=1,2$ between the charged particle and the magnetic flux line (in the $k=3$ direction), is responsible for the Aharonov-Bohm effect. This exchange occurs at a definite time, before the wavepackets are brought together to interfere, and can be verified experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0402204
title: State Transfer instead of Teleportation in Measurement-based Quantum Computation
authors: Simon Perdrix
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 3(1):219-223, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402204
abstract: Quantum measurement is universal for quantum computation. The model of quantum computation introduced by Nielsen and further developed by Leung relies on a generalized form of teleportation. In order to simulate any n-qubit unitary transformation with this model, 4 auxiliary qubits are required. Moreover Leung exhibited a universal family of observables composed of 4 two-qubit measurements. We introduce a model of quantum computation via measurements only, relying on state transfer: state transfer only retains the part of teleportation which is necessary for computating. In order to simulate any n-qubit unitary transformation with this new model, only one auxiliary qubit is required. Moreover we exhibit a universal family of observables composed of 3 one-qubit measurements and only one two-qubit measurement. This model improves those of Nielsen and Leung in terms of both the number of auxiliary qubits and the number of two-qubit measurements required for quantum universality. In both cases, the minimal amounts of necessary resources are now reached: one auxiliary qubit (because measurement is destructive) and one two-qubit measurement (for creating entanglement).

id: quant-ph/0402205
title: A Theory of Concepts and Their Combinations II: A Hilbert Space Representation
authors: Diederik Aerts, Liane Gabora
comments: 21 pages, to appear in the journal 'Kybernetes' in the Summer of 2004
journal: Kybernetes, 34, pp. 192-221, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402205
abstract: The sets of contexts and properties of a concept are embedded in the complex Hilbert space of quantum mechanics. States are unit vectors or density operators, and contexts and properties are orthogonal projections. The way calculations are done in Hilbert space makes it possible to model how context influences the state of a concept. Moreover, a solution to the combination of concepts is proposed. Using the tensor product, a procedure for describing combined concepts is elaborated, providing a natural solution to the pet fish problem. This procedure allows the modeling of an arbitrary number of combined concepts. By way of example, a model for a simple sentence containing a subject, a predicate and an object, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0402206
title: Periodic Potentials and Supersymmetry
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 27 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402206
abstract: We review the current status of one dimensional periodic potentials and also present several new results. It is shown that using the formalism of supersymmetric quantum mechanics, one can considerably enlarge the limited class of analytically solvable one-dimensional periodic potentials. Further, using the Landen transformations as well as cyclic identities for Jacobi elliptic functions discovered by us recently, it is shown that a linear superposition of Lam\'e (as well as associated Lam\'e) potentials are also analytically solvable. Finally, using anti-isospectral transformations, we also obtain a class of analytically solvable, complex, PT-invariant, periodic potentials having real band spectra.

id: quant-ph/0402207
title: A Theory of Concepts and Their Combinations I: The Structure of the Sets of Contexts and Properties
authors: Diederik Aerts, Liane Gabora
comments: 20 pages, to appear in the journal 'Kybernetes' in the Summer of 2004
journal: Kybernetes, 34, pp. 167-191, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402207
abstract: We propose a theory for modeling concepts that uses the state-context-property theory (SCOP), a generalization of the quantum formalism, whose basic notions are states, contexts and properties. This theory enables us to incorporate context into the mathematical structure used to describe a concept, and thereby model how context influences the typicality of a single exemplar and the applicability of a single property of a concept. We introduce the notion `state of a concept' to account for this contextual influence, and show that the structure of the set of contexts and of the set of properties of a concept is a complete orthocomplemented lattice. The structural study in this article is a preparation for a numerical mathematical theory of concepts in the Hilbert space of quantum mechanics that allows the description of the combination of concepts (see quant-ph/0402205)

id: quant-ph/0402208
title: Deterministic Controlled-NOT gate for single-photon two-qubit quantum logic
authors: Marco Fiorentino, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Typos corrected, referee comments and corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402208
abstract: We demonstrate a robust implementation of a deterministic linear-optical Controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for single-photon two-qubit quantum logic. A polarization Sagnac interferometer with an embedded 45$^{\circ}$-oriented dove prism is used to enable the polarization control qubit to act on the momentum (spatial) target qubit of the same photon. The CNOT gate requires no active stabilization because the two spatial modes share a common path, and it is used to entangle the polarization and momentum qubits.

id: quant-ph/0402209
title: Long-range entanglement generation via frequent measurements
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Daniel A. Lidar, Sara Schneider
comments: 7 pages, incl. 2 figures. v2: added a few small clarifications and a reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032322 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402209
abstract: A method is introduced whereby two non-interacting quantum subsystems, that each interact with a third subsystem, are entangled via repeated projective measurements of the state of the third subsystem. A variety of physical examples are presented. The method can be used to establish long range entanglement between distant parties in one parallel measurement step, thus obviating the need for entanglement swapping.

id: quant-ph/0402210
title: Zeno era and non-decaying subspaces for multilevel Friedrichs model
authors: I. Antoniou, E. Karpov, G. Pronko, E. Yarevsky
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402210
abstract: We study the short-time and medium-time behavior of the survival probability of decaying states in the framework of the $N$-level Friedrichs model. The degenerated and nearly degenerated systems are discussed in detail. We show that in these systems decay can be considerably slowed down or even stopped by appropriate choice of initial conditions. We analyze the behaviour of the multilevel system within the so-called Zeno era. We examine and compare two different definitions of the Zeno time. We demonstrate that the Zeno era can be considerably enlarged by proper choice of the system parameters.

id: quant-ph/0402211
title: Stationary entanglement induced by dissipation
authors: S.Nicolosi, A.Napoli, A.Messina, F.Petruccione
comments: 1 figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402211
abstract: The dynamics of two two-level dipole-dipole interacting atoms coupled to a common electromagnetic bath and closely located inside a lossy cavity, is reported. Initially injecting only one excitation in the two atoms-cavity system, loss mechanisms asymptotically drive the matter sample toward a stationary maximally entangled state. The role played by the closeness of the two atoms with respect to such a cooperative behaviour is carefully discussed. Stationary radiation trapping effects are found and transparently interpreted.

id: quant-ph/0402212
title: Active and Passive Quantum Erasers for Neutral Kaons
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, 1 figure, references added, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A69 (2004) 062111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402212
abstract: Quantum marking and quantum erasure are discussed for the neutral kaon system. Contrary to other two-level systems, strangeness and lifetime of a neutral kaon state can be alternatively measured via an "active" or a "passive" procedure. This offers new quantum erasure possibilities. In particular, the operation of a quantum eraser in the "delayed choice" mode is clearly illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0402213
title: Stable single photon source in near infrared
authors: T. Gaebel, I. Popa, A. Gruber, M. Domhan, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 6: Art. No. 98 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402213
abstract: Owing to their unsurpassed photostability, defects in solids may be ideal candidates for single photon sources. Here we report on generation of single photons by optical excitation of a yet unexplored defect in diamond, the nickel-nitrogen complex (NE8) centre. The most striking feature of the defect is its emission bandwidth of 1.2 nm at room temperature. The emission wavelength of the defect is around 800 nm, which is suitable for telecom fibres. In addition, in this spectral region little background light from the diamond bulk material is detected. Consequently, a high contrast in antibunching measurements is achieved.

id: cond-mat/0402065
title: Behavior of susceptible-infected-susceptible epidemics on heterogeneous networks with saturation
authors: Jaewook Joo, Joel L. Lebowitz
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 69 (2004) 066105
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402065
abstract: We investigate saturation effects in susceptible-infected-susceptible (SIS) models of the spread of epidemics in heterogeneous populations. The structure of interactions in the population is represented by networks with connectivity distribution $P(k)$,including scale-free(SF) networks with power law distributions $P(k)\sim k^{-\gamma}$. Considering cases where the transmission of infection between nodes depends on their connectivity, we introduce a saturation function $C(k)$ which reduces the infection transmission rate $\lambda$ across an edge going from a node with high connectivity $k$. A mean field approximation with the neglect of degree-degree correlation then leads to a finite threshold $\lambda_{c}>0$ for SF networks with $2<\gamma \leq 3$. We also find, in this approximation, the fraction of infected individuals among those with degree $k$ for $\lambda$ close to $\lambda_{c}$. We investigate via computer simulation the contact process on a heterogeneous regular lattice and compare the results with those obtained from mean field theory with and without neglect of degree-degree correlations.

id: cond-mat/0402066
title: Phase theory and critical exponents for the Tomonaga-Luttinger model with harmonic confinement
authors: Gao Xianlong, W. Wonneberger
comments: 20 pages, minor changes, typos and journal-ref added
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 37, 2363-2377(2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402066
abstract: A phase operator formulation for a recent model of interacting one-dimensional fermions in a harmonic trap is developed. The resulting theory is similar to the corresponding approach for the Luttinger model with open boundary conditions (OBC). However, in place of the spatial coordinate $z$, a dimensionless variable $u$ defined on the unit circle appears as argument of the phase fields and $u$ is non-linearly related to $z$. Furthermore, form factors appear which reflect the harmonic trap geometry. The theory is applied to calculate one-particle correlation functions. In a properly defined thermodynamic limit, bulk and boundary critical exponents are calculated for the static two-point correlation function and the dynamic local correlation function. The local spectral density is also considered. The critical exponents found are in agreement with those known for OBC with the exception of the boundary scaling exponent $\Delta_\perp$.

id: cond-mat/0402119
title: Magnetoresistance Effect in Spin-Polarized Junctions of Ferromagnetically Contacting Multiple Conductive Paths: Applications to Atomic Wires and Carbon Nanotubes
authors: Satoshi Kokado, Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 132402 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402119
abstract: For spin-polarized junctions of ferromagnetically contacting multiple conductive paths, such as ferromagnet (FM)/atomic wires/FM and FM/carbon nanotubes/FM junctions, we theoretically investigate spin-dependent transport to elucidate the intrinsic relation between the number of paths and conduction, and to enhance the magnetoresistance (MR) ratio. When many paths are randomly located between the two FMs, electronic wave interference between the FMs appears, and then the MR ratio increases with increasing number of paths. Furthermore, at each number of paths, the MR ratio for carbon nanotubes becomes larger than that for atomic wires, reflecting the characteristic shape of points in contact with the FM.

id: cond-mat/0402152
title: Electron spin phase relaxation of phosphorus donors in nuclear spin enriched silicon
authors: Eisuke Abe, Kohei M. Itoh, Junichi Isoya, Satoshi Yamasaki
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 033204 (2004)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402152
abstract: We report a pulsed EPR study of the phase relaxation of electron spins bound to phosphorus donors in isotopically purified 29^Si and natural abundance Si single crystals measured at 8 K.

id: cond-mat/0402216
title: Cavity quantum electrodynamics for superconducting electrical circuits: an architecture for quantum computation
authors: Alexandre Blais, Ren-Shou Huang, Andreas Wallraff, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 69, 062320 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402216
abstract: We propose a realizable architecture using one-dimensional transmission line resonators to reach the strong coupling limit of cavity quantum electrodynamics in superconducting electrical circuits. The vacuum Rabi frequency for the coupling of cavity photons to quantized excitations of an adjacent electrical circuit (qubit) can easily exceed the damping rates of both the cavity and the qubit. This architecture is attractive both as a macroscopic analog of atomic physics experiments and for quantum computing and control, since it provides strong inhibition of spontaneous emission, potentially leading to greatly enhanced qubit lifetimes, allows high-fidelity quantum non-demolition measurements of the state of multiple qubits, and has a natural mechanism for entanglement of qubits separated by centimeter distances. In addition it would allow production of microwave photon states of fundamental importance for quantum communication.

id: cond-mat/0402260
title: Intrinsic electric field effects on few-particle interactions in coupled GaN quantum dots
authors: Sergio De Rinaldis, Irene D'Amico, Fausto Rossi
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402260
abstract: We study the multi-exciton optical spectrum of vertically coupled GaN/AlN quantum dots with a realistic three-dimensional direct-diagonalization approach for the description of few-particle Coulomb-correlated states. We present a detailed analysis of the fundamental properties of few-particle/exciton interactions peculiar of nitride materials. The giant intrinsic electric fields and the high electron/hole effective masses give rise to different effects compared to GaAs-based quantum dots: intrinsic exciton-exciton coupling, non-molecular character of coupled dot exciton wavefunction, strong dependence of the oscillator strength on the dot height, large ground state energy shift for dots separated by different barriers. Some of these effects make GaN/AlN quantum dots interesting candidates in quantum information processing.

id: cond-mat/0402266
title: Shallow donor wavefunctions and donor-pair exchange in silicon: Ab initio theory and floating-phase Heitler-London approach
authors: Belita Koiller, R.B. Capaz, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 115207 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402266
abstract: Electronic and nuclear spins of shallow donors in Silicon are attractive candidates for qubits in quantum computer proposals. Shallow donor exchange gates are frequently invoked to preform two-qubit operations in such proposals. We study shallow donor electron properties in Si within the Kohn-Luttinger envelope function approach, incorporating the full Bloch states of the six band edges of Si conduction band, obtained from {\it ab initio} calculations within the density-functional and pseudopotential frameworks. Inter-valley interference between the conduction-band-edge states of Si leads to oscillatory behavior in the charge distribution of one-electron bound states and in the exchange coupling in two-electron states. The behavior in the donor electron charge distribution is strongly influenced by interference from the plane-wave and periodic parts of the Bloch functions. For two donors, oscillations in the exchange coupling calculated within the Heitler-London (HL) approach are due to the plane-wave parts of the Bloch functions alone, which are pinned to the impurity sites. The robustness of this result is assessed by relaxing the phase pinning to the donor sites. We introduce a more general theoretical scheme, the floating-phase HL, from which the previously reported donor exchange oscillatory behavior is qualitatively and quantitatively confirmed. The floating-phase formalism provides a ``handle'' on how to theoretically anticipate the occurrence of oscillatory behavior in electronic properties associated with electron bound states in more general confining potentials, such as in quantum dots.

id: cond-mat/0402317
title: Slow light in degenerate Fermi gases
authors: G. Juzeliunas, P. Ohberg
comments: Slightly updated. Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 033602 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402317
abstract: We investigate the effect of slow light propagating in a degenerate atomic Fermi gas. In particular we use slow light with an orbital angular momentum. We present a microscopic theory for the interplay between light and matter and show how the slow light can provide an effective magnetic field acting on the electrically neutral fermions, a direct analogy of the free electron gas in an uniform magnetic field. As an example we illustrate how the corresponding de Haas-van Alphen effect can be seen in a neutral gas of fermions.

id: cond-mat/0402330
title: Quantum annealing of the Traveling Salesman Problem
authors: Roman Martonak, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Erio Tosatti
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402330
abstract: We propose a path-integral Monte Carlo quantum annealing scheme for the symmetric Traveling Salesman Problem, based on a highly constrained Ising-like representation, and we compare its performance against standard thermal Simulated Annealing. The Monte Carlo moves implemented are standard, and consist in restructuring a tour by exchanging two links (2-opt moves). The quantum annealing scheme, even with a drastically simple form of kinetic energy, appears definitely superior to the classical one, when tested on a 1002 city instance of the standard TSPLIB.

id: cond-mat/0402368
title: Electrical current noise of a beam splitter as a test of spin-entanglement
authors: P. Samuelsson, E.V. Sukhorukov, M. Buttiker
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, section on quantification of entanglement added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 115330 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402368
abstract: We investigate the spin entanglement in the superconductor-quantum dot system proposed by Recher, Sukhorukov and Loss, coupling it to an electronic beam-splitter. The superconductor-quantum dot entangler and the beam-splitter are treated within a unified framework and the entanglement is detected via current correlations. The state emitted by the entangler is found to be a linear superposition of non-local spin-singlets at different energies, a spin-entangled two-particle wavepacket. Colliding the two electrons in the beam-splitter, the singlet spin-state gives rise to a bunching behavior, detectable via the current correlators. The amount of bunching depends on the relative positions of the single particle levels in the quantum dots and the scattering amplitudes of the beam-splitter. The singlet spin entanglement, insensitive to orbital dephasing but suppressed by spin dephasing, is conveniently quantified via the Fano factors. It is found that the entanglement-dependent contribution to the Fano factor is of the same magnitude as the non-entangled, making an experimental detection feasible. A detailed comparison between the current correlations of the non-local spin-singlet state and other states, possibly emitted by the entangler, is performed. This provides conditions for an unambiguous identification of the non-local singlet spin entanglement.

id: cond-mat/0402387
title: Quantum thermodynamics: thermodynamics at the nanoscale
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, R. Balian, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 5 pages. Talk given at Physics of Quantum Electronics (PQE2004), Snowbird, by Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402387
abstract: A short introduction on quantum thermodynamics is given and three new topics are discussed: 1) Maximal work extraction from a finite quantum system. The thermodynamic prediction fails and a new, general result is derived, the ``ergotropy''. 2) In work extraction from two-temperature setups, the presence of correlations can push the effective efficiency beyond the Carnot bound. 3) In the presence of level crossing, non-slow changes may be more optimal than slow ones.

id: cond-mat/0402462
title: Eigenmodes and thermodynamics of a Coulomb chain in a harmonic potential
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170602 (2004).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402462
abstract: The density of ions trapped in a harmonic potential in one dimension is not uniform. Consequently the eigenmodes are not phonons. We calculate the long wavelength modes in the continuum limit, and evaluate the density of states in the short wavelength limit for chains of $N\gg 1$ ions. Remarkably, the results that are found analytically in the thermodynamic limit provide a good estimate of the spectrum of excitations of small chains down to few tens of ions. The spectra are used to compute the thermodynamic functions of the chain. Deviations from extensivity of the thermodynamic quantities are found. An analytic expression for the critical transverse frequency determining the stability of a linear chain is derived.

id: cond-mat/0402642
title: Voltage Control of Exchange Coupling in Phosphorus Doped Silicon
authors: C.J. Wellard, L.C.L Hollenberg, L.M. Kettle, H.-S.Goan
comments: 5 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402642
abstract: Motivated by applications to quantum computer architectures we study the change in the exchange interaction between neighbouring phosphorus donor electrons in silicon due to the application of voltage biases to surface control electrodes. These voltage biases create electro-static fields within the crystal substrate, perturbing the states of the donor electrons and thus altering the strength of the exchange interaction between them. We find that control gates of this kind can be used to either enhance, or reduce the strength of the interaction, by an amount that depends both on the magnitude and orientation of the donor separation.

id: cond-mat/0402662
title: Decoherence of transported spin in multichannel spin-orbit coupled spintronic devices: Scattering approach to spin density matrix from the ballistic to the localized regime
authors: Branislav K. Nikolic, Satofumi Souma
comments: 16 pages, 9 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 195328 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402662
abstract: By viewing current in the detecting lead of a spintronic device as being an ensemble of flowing spins corresponding to a mixed quantum state, where each spin itself is generally described by an improper mixture generated during the transport where it couples to other degrees of freedom due to spin-orbit (SO) interactions or inhomogeneous magnetic fields, we introduce the spin density operator associated with such current expressed in terms of the spin-resolved Landauer transmission matrix of the device. This formalism, which provides complete description of coupled spin-charge quantum transport in open finite-size systems attached to external probes, is employed to understand how initially injected pure spin states, comprising fully spin-polarized current, evolve into the mixed ones corresponding to partially polarized current. We analyze particular routes that diminish spin coherence (signified by decay of the off-diagonal elements of the current spin density matrix) in two-dimensional electron gas-based devices due to the interplay of the Rashba and/or Dresselhaus SO coupling and: (i) scattering at the boundaries or lead-wire interface in ballistic semiconductor nanowires; or (ii) spin-independent scattering off static impurities in both weakly and strongly localized disordered nanowires. The physical interpretation of spin decoherence in the course of multichannel quantum transport in terms of the entanglement of spin to an effectively zero-temperature ``environment'' composed of more than one open orbital conducting channels offers insight into some of the key challenges for spintronics: controlling decoherence of transported spins and emergence of partially coherent spin states in all-electrical spin manipulation schemes based on the SO interactions in realistic semiconductor structures.

id: cond-mat/0402678
title: Coupling Josephson qubits via a current-biased information bus
authors: L.F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. submitted
journal: Europhysics Letters 67, 1004 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0402678
abstract: Josephson qubits without direct interaction can be effectively coupled by sequentially connecting them to an information bus: a current-biased large Josephson junction treated as an oscillator with adjustable frequency. The coupling between any qubit and the bus can be controlled by modulating the magnetic flux applied to that qubit. This tunable and selective coupling provides two-qubit entangled states for implementing elementary quantum logic operations, and for experimentally testing Bell's inequality.

id: gr-qc/0402008
title: A class of nonunitary models of Newtonian gravity and its unicity
authors: Sergio De Filippo, Filippo Maimone
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0402008
abstract: A class of non-Markoffian nonunitary models for Newtonian gravity is characterized as following from some rather natural hypotheses. One of such models was previously obtained as the Newtonian limit of a classically stable version of higher derivative gravity. They give rise to a mass threshold around $10^{11}$ proton masses for gravity induced localization, to a breaking of linearity and to the possible identification of thermodynamic and von Neumann entropies.

id: gr-qc/0402118
title: A relational solution to the problem of time in quantum mechanics and quantum gravity induces a fundamental mechanism for quantum decoherence
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 13 pages, RevTex
journal: New J.Phys. 6 (2004) 45
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0402118
abstract: The use of a relational time in quantum mechanics is a framework in which one promotes to quantum operators all variables in a system, and later chooses one of the variables to operate like a ``clock''. Conditional probabilities are computed for variables of the system to take certain values when the ``clock'' specifies a certain time. This framework is attractive in contexts where the assumption of usual quantum mechanics of the existence of an external, perfectly classical clock, appears unnatural, as in quantum cosmology. Until recently, there were problems with such constructions in ordinary quantum mechanics with additional difficulties in the context of constrained theories like general relativity. A scheme we recently introduced to consistently discretize general relativity removed such obstacles. Since the clock is now an object subject to quantum fluctuations, the resulting evolution in the time is not exactly unitary and pure states decohere into mixed states. Here we work out in detail the type of decoherence generated, and we find it to be of Lindblad type. This is attractive since it implies that one can have loss of coherence without violating the conservation of energy. We apply the framework to a simple cosmological model to illustrate how a quantitative estimate of the effect could be computed. For most quantum systems it appears to be too small to be observed, although certain macroscopic quantum systems could in the future provide a testing ground for experimental observation.

id: hep-ph/0402101
title: Isospin Squeezed States, Disoriented Chiral condensates and Pion Production: A Dynamic Group Theoretical Approach
authors: Bindu A. Bambah, C. Mukku
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4 macro
journal: Annals Phys. 314 (2004) 54-74
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0402101
abstract: We make a complete dynamical study of Isotopic spin conservation effects on the multiplicity distributions of both hard and soft pions emitted in a quark gluon plasma undergoing a non-equilibrium phase transition.

id: hep-ph/0402202
title: Feynman's Branes and Feynman's Oscillators
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTex 15 pages, 6 figures, presented at the Workshop on Branes and Generalized Dynamics (Argonne, Illinois, USA, October 2003)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0402202
abstract: Based on Feynman's lifetime efforts on quantum mechanics and relativity, it is concluded that the basic difference between field theory and string theory is that field theory is based on running waves while string theory should deal with standing waves in the Lorentz-covariant regime. At the 1970 spring meeting of the American Physical Society held in Washington, DC, R. P. Feynman stunned the audience by proposing harmonic oscillators for relativistic bound states, instead of Feynman diagrams. His talk was later published in the paper of Feynman, Kislinger, and Ravndal [Phys. Rev. D, Vol. 3, 2706 (1971)]. These authors noted that the hadron mass spectra can be predicted by the degeneracy of the three-dimensional harmonic oscillators. In so doing, they started with the Lorentz-invariant differential equation for the harmonic oscillator, and obtained Lorentz invariant solutions. However, their solutions are not normalizable in the time-separation variable and cannot carry probability interpretation. It is pointed out that there are solutions normalizable in the time-separation variable within the framework of Wigner's little-group representation of the Poincar\'e group. These solutions are not invariant but covariant under Lorentz transformations. These solutions give a covariant bound-state model which gives the quark model and the parton model as two different limiting cases, in the low- and high-speed limits respectively.

id: hep-th/0402006
title: Lagrangian quantum field theory in momentum picture. I. Free scalar fields
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 56 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402006
abstract: The work contains a detailed investigation of free neutral (Hermitian) or charged (non-Hermitian) scalar fields and the describing them (system of) Klein-Gordon equation(s) in momentum picture of motion. A form of the field equation(s) in terms of creation and annihilation operators is derived. An analysis of the (anti-)commutation relations on its base is presented. The concept of the vacuum and the evolution of state vectors are discussed.

id: hep-th/0402025
title: Nonlinear supersymmetry: from classical to quantum mechanics
authors: Mikhail Plyushchay
comments: 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.A37:10375-10384,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402025
abstract: Quantization of the nonlinear supersymmetry faces a problem of a quantum anomaly. For some classes of superpotentials, the integrals of motion admit the corrections guaranteeing the preservation of the nonlinear supersymmetry at the quantum level. With an example of the system realizing the nonlinear superconformal symmetry, we discuss the nature of such corrections and speculate on their possible general origin.

id: hep-th/0402060
title: Signaling and the Black Hole Final State
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever, George Hockney
comments: 3 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402060
abstract: In an attempt to restore the unitarity of the evaporation process, Horowitz and Maldacena recently proposed a boundary-condition constraint for the final quantum state of an evaporating black hole at its singularity. Gottesman and Preskill have argued that the proposed constraint must lead to nonlinear evolution of the initial (collapsing) quantum state. Here we show that in fact this evolution allows signaling, making it detectable outside the event horizon with entangled-probe experiments of the kind we proposed recently. As a result the Horowitz-Maldacena proposal may be subject to terrestrial tests.

id: hep-th/0402114
title: Two Stringy Systems of the Kerr Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, Latex, based on the invited talks at the XXVI Workshop on HEP&FT (IHEP, Protvino, July 2003) and Vigier IV Conference (Paris, September 2003), submitted to the Proceedings of IHEP
journal: In: Proc. of the 26th Workshop on Fundamental Problems of High-Energy Physics and Field Theory, Ed. V.A.Petrov, p.87-100, IHEP, Protvino, 2003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402114
abstract: A classical spinning particle based on the Kerr-Newman black hole (BH) solution is considered. For parameters of spinning particles $|a|>>m$, the BH horizons disappear and BH image is drastically changed. We show that it turns into a skeleton formed by two coupled stringy systems. One of them is the Kerr singular ring which can be considered as a circular D-string with an orientifold world-sheet. Analyzing the aligned to the Kerr congruence electromagnetic excitations of this string, we obtain the second stringy system which consists of two axial half-infinite chiral D-strings. These axial strings are similar to the Dirac monopole strings but carry the induced chiral traveling pp-waves. Their field structure can be described by the field model suggested by Witten for the cosmic superconducting strings. We discuss a relation of this stringy system to the Dirac equation and argue that this stringy system can play a role of a classical carrier of the wave function.

id: hep-th/0402145
title: Black holes radiate but do not evaporate
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 5 pages, Honorable Mention of the Gravity Research Foundation 2005 essay competition; version to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D14:2257-2261,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402145
abstract: During the black hole radiation, the interior contains all the matter of the initial black hole, together with the negative energy quanta entangled with the exterior Hawking radiation. Neither the initial matter nor the negative energy quanta evaporate from the black hole interior. Therefore, the information is not lost during the radiation. The black hole mass eventually drops to zero in semiclassical gravity, but this semiclassical state has an infinite temperature and still contains all the initial matter together with the negative energy entangled with the exterior radiation.

id: hep-th/0402178
title: Quantum Fluctuations of a Coulomb potential
authors: Kirill A. Kazakov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 113012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402178
abstract: Long-range properties of the two-point correlation function of the electromagnetic field produced by an elementary particle are investigated. Using the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism it is shown that this function is finite in the coincidence limit outside the region of particle localization. In this limit, the leading term in the long-range expansion of the correlation function is calculated explicitly, and its gauge independence is proved. The leading contribution turns out to be of zero order in the Planck constant, and the relative value of the root mean square fluctuation of the Coulomb potential is found to be 1/\sqrt{2}, confirming the result obtained previously within the S-matrix approach. It is shown also that in the case of a macroscopic body, the \hbar^0 part of the correlation function is suppressed by a factor 1/N, where N is the number of particles in the body. Relation of the obtained results to the problem of measurability of the electromagnetic field is mentioned.

id: hep-th/0402226
title: On representations of the rotation group and magnetic monopoles
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, F. Aceves de la Cruz
comments: References added
journal: Phys.Lett.A324:9-13,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0402226
abstract: Recently (Phys. Lett. A302 (2002) 253, hep-th/0208210; hep-th/0403146) employing bounded infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group we have argued that one can obtain the consistent monopole theory with generalized Dirac quantization condition, $2\kappa\mu \in \mathbb Z$, where $\kappa$ is the weight of the Dirac string. Here we extend this proof to the unbounded infinite-dimensional representations.

id: math-ph/0402004
title: The Response to a Perturbation in the Reflection Amplitude
authors: Joshua Feinberg
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10261-10272
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0402004
abstract: We apply inverse scattering theory to calculate the functional derivative of the potential $V(x)$ and wave function $\psi(x,k)$ of a one-dimensional Schr\"odinger operator with respect to the reflection amplitude $r(k)$.

id: math-ph/0402011
title: Ionization for Three Dimensional Time-dependent Point Interactions
authors: M. Correggi, G.F. Dell'Antonio, R. Figari, A. Mantile
comments: Some improvements and some references added, 26 pages, LaTeX
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 257 N.1, 169-192, 2005
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0402011
abstract: We study the time evolution of a three dimensional quantum particle under the action of a time-dependent point interaction fixed at the origin. We assume that the ``strength'' of the interaction (\alpha(t)) is a periodic function with an arbitrary mean. Under very weak conditions on the Fourier coefficients of (\alpha(t)), we prove that there is complete ionization as (t \to \infty), starting from a bound state at time (t = 0). Moreover we prove also that, under the same conditions, all the states of the system are scattering states.

id: math-ph/0402022
title: Lower limit in semiclassical form for the number of bound states in a central potential
authors: Fabian Brau, Francesco Calogero
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A321, 225 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0402022
abstract: We identify a class of potentials for which the semiclassical estimate $N^{\text{(semi)}}=\frac{1}{\pi}\int_0^\infty dr\sqrt{-V(r)\theta[-V(r)]}$ of the number $N$ of (S-wave) bound states provides a (rigorous) lower limit: $N\ge {{N^{\text{(semi)}}}}$, where the double braces denote the integer part. Higher partial waves can be included via the standard replacement of the potential $V(r)$ with the effective $\ell$-wave potential $V_\ell^{\text{(eff)}}(r)=V(r)+\frac{\ell(\ell+1)}{r^2}$. An analogous upper limit is also provided for a different class of potentials, which is however quite severely restricted.

id: math-ph/0402023
title: On the decrease of the number of bound states with the increase of the angular momentum
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A322, 67 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0402023
abstract: For the class of central potentials possessing a finite number of bound states and for which the second derivative of $r V(r)$ is negative, we prove, using the supersymmetric quantum mechanics formalism, that an increase of the angular momentum $\ell$ by one unit yields a decrease of the number of bound states of at least one unit: $N_{\ell+1}\le N_{\ell}-1$. This property is used to obtain, for this class of potential, an upper limit on the total number of bound states which significantly improves previously known results.

id: math/0402105
title: Noiseless subsystems for collective rotation channels in quantum information theory
authors: J.A. Holbrook, D.W. Kribs, R. Laflamme, D. Poulin
comments: 21 pages, preprint version
journal: Integral Eqnts. & Operator Thy., 51 (2005), 215-234.
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0402105
abstract: Collective rotation channels are a fundamental class of channels in quantum computing and quantum information theory. The commutant of the noise operators for such a channel is a C*-algebra which is equal to the set of fixed points for the channel. Finding the precise spatial structure of the commutant algebra for a set of noise operators associated with a channel is a core problem in quantum error prevention. We draw on methods of operator algebras, quantum mechanics and combinatorics to explicitly determine the structure of the commutant for the class of collective rotation channels.

id: math/0402325
title: Birkhoff's polytope and unistochastic matrices, N=3 and N=4
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Asa Ericsson, Marek Kus, Wojciech Tadej, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 30 pages, 4 figures
journal: Final version in Commun. Math. Phys. 259, 307-324 (2005)
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0402325
abstract: The set of bistochastic or doubly stochastic N by N matrices form a convex set called Birkhoff's polytope, that we describe in some detail. Our problem is to characterize the set of unistochastic matrices as a subset of Birkhoff's polytope. For N=3 we present fairly complete results. For N=4 partial results are obtained. An interesting difference between the two cases is that there is a ball of unistochastic matrices around the van der Waerden matrix for N=3, while this is not the case for N=4.

id: nlin/0402003
title: Coarse-Grained Picture for Controlling Complex Quantum Systems
authors: Toshiya Takami, Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: jpsj2.cls, 2 pages, 3 figure files; appear in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. Vol.73, No.11 (Nov. 15, 2004)
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 73, 3215 (2004)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0402003
abstract: We propose a coarse-grained picture to control ``complex'' quantum dynamics, i.e., multi-level-multi-level transition with a random interaction. Assuming that optimally controlled dynamics can be described as a Rabi-like oscillation between an initial and final state, we derive an analytic optimal field as a solution to optimal control theory. For random matrix systems, we numerically confirm that the analytic optimal field steers an initial state to a target state which both contains many eigenstates.

id: nlin/0402005
title: Coarse-Grained Picture for Controlling Quantum Chaos
authors: Toshiya Takami, Hiroshi Fujisaki, Takayuki Miyadera
comments: REVTeX4 with graphicx package, 11 pages, 10 figures; replaced fig.1(a) and 2(a)
journal: Adv. Chem. Phys. 130A, 435 (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0402005
abstract: We propose a coarse-grained picture to analyze control problems for quantum chaos systems. Using optimal control theory, we first show that almost perfect control is achieved for random matrix systems and a quantum kicked rotor. Second, under the assumption that the controlled dynamics is well described by a Rabi-type oscillaion between unperturbed states, we derive an analytic expression for the optimal field. Finally we numerically confirm that the analytic field can steer an initial state to a target state in random matrix systems.

id: nlin/0402011
title: Stringent Numerical Test of the Poisson Distribution for Finite Quantum Integrable Hamiltonians
authors: A. Relano, J. Dukelsky, J. M. G. Gomez, J. Retamosa
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, LaTeX (RevTeX 4) Content changed, References added Accepted for publication in PRE
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0402011
abstract: Using a new class of exactly solvable models based on the pairing interaction, we show that it is possible to construct integrable Hamiltonians with a Wigner distribution of nearest neighbor level spacings. However, these Hamiltonians involve many-body interactions and the addition of a small integrable perturbation very quickly leads the system to a Poisson distribution. Besides this exceptional cases, we show that the accumulated distribution of an ensemble of random integrable two-body pairing hamiltonians is in perfect agreement with the Poisson limit. These numerical results for quantum integrable Hamiltonians provide a further empirical confirmation to the work of the Berry and Tabor in the semiclassical limit.

id: nlin/0402022
title: Signatures of homoclinic motion in quantum chaos
authors: D. A. Wisniacki, E. Vergini, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 054101 (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0402022
abstract: Homoclinic motion plays a key role in the organization of classical chaos in Hamiltonian systems. In this Letter, we show that it also imprints a clear signature in the corresponding quantum spectra. By numerically studying the fluctuations of the widths of wavefunctions localized along periodic orbits we reveal the existence of an oscillatory behavior, that is explained solely in terms of the primary homoclinic motion. Furthermore, our results indicate that it survives the semiclassical limit.

id: nucl-ex/0402007
title: Quantum Interferometry in $^0$ Production in Ultra-Peripheral Heavy Ion Collisions
authors: Spencer R. Klein, STAR Collaboration
comments: 8 pgs. with 4 figures. Poster presented at Quark Matter 2004, Jan. 11-17, 2004, Oakland, CA
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-ex/0402007
abstract: In $\rho^0$ photoproduction in ultra-peripheral heavy ion collisions, either ion can be the photon emitter or the target. The two possibilities are indistinguishable, and they should be able to interfere, reducing $rho^0$ production at low transverse momentum, $p_T<\hbar/< b>$, where $<b>$ is the median impact parameter. The two $\rho^0$ production points are separated by $<b> \approx 18-46$ fm, while the $\rho^0$ decay before travelling 1 fm. The two decay points are well separated in space-time, so the decays proceed independently and any interference must involve the final state $\pi^+\pi^-$. This requires a non-local wave function.

id: nucl-th/0402005
title: Super-Symmetry transformation for excitation processes
authors: Jerome Margueron, Philippe Chomaz
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. C71 (2005) 024318
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0402005
abstract: Quantum Mechanics SUper-SYmmetry (QM-SUSY) provides a general framework for studies using phenomenological potentials for nucleons (or clusters) interacting with a core. The SUSY potentials result from the transformation of the mean field potential in order to account for the Pauli blocking of the core orbitals. In this article, we discuss how other potentials (like external probes or residual interactions between the valence nucleons) are affected by the SUSY transformation. We illustrate how the SUSY transformations induce off-diagonal terms in coordinate space that play the essential role on the induced transition probabilities on two examples: the electric operators and Gaussian external fields. We show that excitation operators, doorway states, strength and sum rules are modified.

id: nucl-th/0402022
title: Novel effects of electromagnetic interaction on the correlation of nucleons in nuclear matter
authors: Ji-sheng Chen, Jia-rong Li, Meng Jin
comments: 6 pages, 3 figues, revised according to comments; improved with typos corrected and updated references added; final published version in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B608 (2005) 39-46
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0402022
abstract: The electromagnetic(EM) interactions between charged protons on the correlations of nucleons are discussed by introducing the Anderson-Higgs mechanism of broken U(1) EM symmetry into the relativistic nuclear theory with a parametric photon mass. The non-saturating Coulomb force contribution is emphasized on the equation of state of nuclear matter with charge symmetry breaking(CSB) at finite temperature and the breached $^1S_0$ pairing correlations of proton-proton and neutron-neutron. The universal properties given by an order parameter field with a non-zero vacuum expectation value (VEV) nearby phase transition are explored within the mean field theory(MFT) level. This mechanism can be extended to the charged or charge neutralized strongly coupling multi-components system for the discussion of binding or pairing issues.

id: physics/0402034
title: Coherent control and manifestation of inequality of forward and reversed processes in optics
authors: V.A.Kuz'menko
comments: 3 pages LaTeX2e, 1 figure PS
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0402034
abstract: The experiments with broadband down-converted light clearly show inequality of forward and reversed processes in optics.

id: physics/0402051
title: Simple Soluble Molecular Ionization Model
authors: Gerald V. Dunne, Christopher S. Gauthier
comments: 26 pp, 10 figures, latex; Revision: normalization (factor of 1/2) of field-free plots corrected -- figs 4,8,10. Ionization case unaffected. References added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 053409 (2004)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0402051
abstract: We present a simple exact analytical solution, using the Weyl-Titchmarsh-Kodaira spectral theorem, for the spectral function of the one-dimensional diatomic molecule model consisting of two attractive delta function wells in the presence of a static external electric field. For sufficiently deep and far apart wells, this molecule supports both an even and an odd state, and the introduction of a static electric field turns these bound states into quasi-bound states which are Stark shifted and broadened. The continuum spectrum also inherits an intricate pattern of resonances which reflect the competition between resonant scattering between the two atomic wells and between the linear potential and one or both atomic well(s). All results are analytic and can be easily plotted. The relation between the large orders of the divergent perturbative Stark shift series and the non-perturbative widths of quasi-bound levels is studied.

id: physics/0402107
title: Dynamic tunnelling ionization of $H_2^+$ in intense fields
authors: Liang-You Peng, Daniel Dundas, J F McCann, K T Taylor, I D Williams
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 36 (2003) L295-L302
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0402107
abstract: Intense-field ionization of the hydrogen molecular ion by linearly-polarized light is modelled by direct solution of the fixed-nuclei time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation and compared with recent experiments. Parallel transitions are calculated using algorithms which exploit massively parallel computers. We identify and calculate dynamic tunnelling ionization resonances that depend on laser wavelength and intensity, and molecular bond length. Results for $\lambda \sim 1064$ nm are consistent with static tunnelling ionization. At shorter wavelengths $\lambda \sim 790 $ nm large dynamic corrections are observed. The results agree very well with recent experimental measurements of the ion spectra. Our results reproduce the single peak resonance and provide accurate ionization rate estimates at high intensities. At lower intensities our results confirm a double peak in the ionization rate as the bond length varies.

