id: quant-ph/0403001
title: Large two-atom two-photon vacuum Rabi oscillations in a high quality cavity
authors: P. K. Pathak, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 10 pages 6 figures. accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 043807 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403001
abstract: We predict large cooperative effect involving two atom two photon vacuum Rabi oscillations in a high quality cavity. The two photon emission occurs as a result of simultaneous de-excitation of both atoms with two photon resonance condition $\omega_1+\omega_2\approx \omega_a+\omega_b$, where $\omega_1$, $\omega_2$ are the atomic transition frequencies and $\omega_a$, $\omega_b$ are the frequencies of the emitted photons. The actual resonance condition depends on the vacuum Rabi couplings. The effect can be realized either with identical atoms in a bimodal cavity or with nonidentical atoms in a single mode cavity.

id: quant-ph/0403002
title: Search for optimum labeling schemes in qubit systems for Quantum Information processing by NMR
authors: Ranabir Das, Sukhendu Chakraborty, K. Rukmani, Anil Kumar
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403002
abstract: Optimal labeling schemes lead to efficient experimental protocols for quantum information processing by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). A systematic approach of finding optimal labeling schemes for a given computation is described here. The scheme is described for both quadrupolar systems and spin-1/2 systems. Finally, one of the optimal labeling scheme has been used to experimentally implement a quantum full-adder in a 4-qubit system by NMR, using the technique of transition selective pulses.

id: quant-ph/0403003
title: The Construction of Some Important Classes of Generalized Coherent states: The Nonlinear Coherent States Method
authors: R. Roknizadeh, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 17pages, The section 7 in last version is revised, Some references are added
journal: J. Phys.A,: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 8111-8127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403003
abstract: Considering some important classes of generalized coherent states known in literature, we demonstrated that all of them can be created via conventional fashion, i.e. the "lowering operator eigen-state" and the "displacement operator" techniques using the {\it "nonlinear coherent states"} approach. As a result we obtained a {\it "unified method"} to construct a large class of coherent states which already have been introduced by different prescriptions.

id: quant-ph/0403004
title: Geometric quantum computation and multi-qubit entanglement with superconducting charge qubits inside a cavity
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, corrected some errors, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 94, 100502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403004
abstract: We analyze a new scheme for quantum information processing, with superconducting charge qubits coupled through a cavity mode, in which quantum manipulations are insensitive to the state of the cavity. We illustrate how to physically implement universal quantum computation as well as multi-qubit entanglement based on unconventional geometric phase shifts in this scalable solid-state system. Some quantum error-correcting codes can also be easily constructed using the same technique. In view of the gate dependence on just global geometric features and the insensitivity to the state of cavity modes, the proposed quantum operations may result in high-fidelity quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0403005
title: Path integrals from classical momentum paths
authors: John Hegseth
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, added a reference, corrected typos, added one paragraph
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403005
abstract: The path integral formulation of quantum mechanics constructs the propagator by evaluating the action S for all classical paths in coordinate space. A corresponding momentum path integral may also be defined through Fourier transforms in the endpoints. Although these momentum path integrals are especially simple for several special cases, no one has, to my knowledge, ever formally constructed them from all classical paths in momentum space. I show that this is possible because there exists another classical mechanics based on an alternate classical action R. Hamilton's Canonical equations result from a variational principle in both S and R. S uses fixed beginning and ending spatial points while R uses fixed beginning and ending momentum points. This alternative action's classical mechanics also includes a Hamilton-Jacobi equation. I also present some important points concerning the beginning and ending conditions on the action necessary to apply a Canonical transformation. These properties explain the failure of the Canonical transformation in the phase space path integral. It follows that a path integral may be constructed from classical position paths using S in the coordinate representation or from classical momentum paths using R in the momentum representation. Several example calculations are presented that illustrate the simplifications and practical advantages made possible by this broader view of the path integral. In particular, the normalized amplitude for a free particle is found without using the Schrodinger equation, the internal spin degree of freedom is simply and naturally derived, and the simple harmonic oscillator is calculated.

id: quant-ph/0403006
title: Ultracold atoms confined in rf-induced two-dimensional trapping potentials
authors: Yves Colombe, Elena Knyazchyan, Olivier Morizot, Brigitte Mercier, Vincent Lorent, Helene Perrin
comments: soumis a Europhysics Letters le 29 fevrier 2004
journal: Europhysics Letters 67 (2004) 593
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403006
abstract: We present the experimental implementation of a new trap for cold atoms proposed by O. Zobay and B. M. Garraway. It relies on adiabatic potentials for atoms dressed by a rf field in an inhomogeneous magnetic field. This trap is well suited to confine atoms tightly along one direction to produce a two-dimensional atomic gas. We transferred ultracold atoms into this trap, starting either from thermal samples or Bose--Einstein condensates. In the latter case, technical noise during the loading stage caused heating and prevented us from observing 2D BECs.

id: quant-ph/0403007
title: Translation of Lueders' "Uber die Zustandsanderung durch den Messprozess"
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: v2: To appear in Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 2006
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 15, No. 9, 663 - 670 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403007
abstract: A translation and discussion of G. Luders, Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 8 322-328 (1951).

id: quant-ph/0403008
title: Explicit Form of Solution of Two Atoms Tavis-Cummings Model
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file, 11 pages. After submitting the paper we received some comments, so we add Appendix to reply to one of them
journal: The Bulletin of Yokohama City University, 56(2005), 51-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403008
abstract: In this paper we consider the two atoms Tavis--Cummings model and give an explicit form to the solution of this model which will play a central role in quantum computation based on atoms of laser--cooled and trapped linearly in a cavity. We also present a problem of three atoms Tavis--Cummings model which is related to the construction of controlled--controlled NOT operation (gate) in quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0403009
title: A Purification Scheme and Entanglement Distillations
authors: Hiromichi Nakazato, Makoto Unoki, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 7 pages; Contribution to the Proceedings of ICQI03, Tokyo, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403009
abstract: A purification scheme which utilizes the action of repeated measurements on a (part of a total) quantum system is briefly reviewed and is applied to a few simple systems to show how it enables us to extract an entangled state as a target pure state. The scheme is rather simple (e.g., we need not prepare a specific initial state) and is shown to have wide applicability and flexibility, and is able to accomplish both the maximal fidelity and non-vanishing yield.

id: quant-ph/0403010
title: Quantum tunneling time
authors: P.C.W. Davies
comments: 10 pages, no figures, research paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403010
abstract: A simple model of a quantum clock is applied to the old and controversial problem of how long a particle takes to tunnel through a quantum barrier. The model I employ has the advantage of yielding sensible results for energy eigenstates, and does not require the use of time-dependant wave packets. Although the treatment does not forbid superluminal tunneling velocities, there is no implication of faster-than-light signaling because only the transit duration is measurable, not the absolute time of transit. A comparison is given with the weak-measurement post-selection calculations of Steinberg.

id: quant-ph/0403011
title: The Pegg-Barnett oscillator and its supersymmetric generalization
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403011
abstract: The oscillator algebra of Pegg-Barnett (P-B) oscillator with a finite-dimensional number-state space is investigated in this note. It is shown that the Pegg-Barnett oscillator possesses the su($n$) Lie algebraic structure. Additionally, we suggest a so-called supersymmetric P-B oscillator and discuss the related topics such as the algebraic structure and particle occupation number of supersymmetric P-B oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0403012
title: Non-Commutative Worlds
authors: Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 67 pages, 7 figures, LaTeX manuscript
journal: New J.Phys. 6 (2004) 173
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403012
abstract: This paper shows how the forms of gauge theory, Hamiltonian mechanics and quantum mechanics arise from a non-commutative framework for calculus and differential geometry. Discrete calculus is seen to fit into this pattern by reformulating it in terms of commutators. Differential geometry begins here, not with the concept of parallel translation, but with the concept of a physical trajectory and the algebra related to the Jacobi identity that governs that trajectory. The paper discusses how Poisson brackets give rise to Jacobi identity, and how Jacobi identity arises in combinatorial contexts, including graph coloring and knot theory. The paper gives a highly sharpened derivation of results of Tanimura on the consequences of commutators that generalize the Feynman-Dyson derivation of electromagnetism, and a generalization of the original Feynman-Dyson result that makes no assumptions about commutators. The latter result is a consequence of the definitions of the derivations in a particular non-commutative world. Our generalized version of electromagnetism sheds light on the orginal Feynman-Dyson derivation, and has many discrete models.

id: quant-ph/0403013
title: Covariance of the Schr?dinger equation under low velocity boosts
authors: A B van Oosten
comments: 5 pages, 15 equations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403013
abstract: It is known that the Schroedinger equation is not covariant under Galilei boosts, unless the phase of its solutions are shifted simultaneously. It is argued that the phase shift is not a coordinate transformation, because it depends on the mass of the Schroedinger particle. The phase shift also cannot be derived from low speed Lorentz boost. It is proposed to extend the Galilei boost with two terms of order v^2/c^2 to avoid these issues and to guarantee covariance of the Schroedinger kinetic energy and momentum. The extensions imply that proper time and relativity of simultaneity are essential features of Schroedinger quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0403014
title: Relativistically invariant quantum information
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403014
abstract: We show that quantum information can be encoded into entangled states of multiple indistinguishable particles in such a way that any inertial observer can prepare, manipulate, or measure the encoded state independent of their Lorentz reference frame. Such relativistically invariant quantum information is free of the difficulties associated with encoding into spin or other degrees of freedom in a relativistic context.

id: quant-ph/0403015
title: A Geometric Diagram of Separable States
authors: Ping Xing Chen, Cheng Zu Li
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403015
abstract: This paper present a geometric diagram of a separable state: If a mixed state $\sigma $ is separable, there are $2^{nS(\sigma)}$ linearly independant product vectors which span the same Hilbert space as the $2^{nS(\sigma)}$ ``likely'' strings of $\sigma ^{\otimes n}$ do. This diagram results in a criterion for separability which is strictly stronger than the inorder criterion in [M.A. Nielsen and J. Kempe, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5184 (2001)]. This means that the number of product bases of states of a system has close link to the nonlocality of the system.

id: quant-ph/0403016
title: Bound entanglement provides convertibility of pure entangled states
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 6 pages, 2 figure. Results for multipartite settings were added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 190501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403016
abstract: I show that two distant parties can transform pure entangled states to arbitrary pure states by stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) at the single copy level, if they share bound entangled states. This is the effect of bound entanglement since this entanglement processing is impossible by SLOCC alone. Similar effect of bound entanglement occurs in three qubits where two incomparable entangled states of GHZ and W can be inter-converted. In general multipartite settings composed by $N$ distant parties, all $N$-partite pure entangled states are inter-convertible by SLOCC with the assistance of bound entangled states with positive partial transpose.

id: quant-ph/0403017
title: Quantum fluctuations and life
authors: P.C.W. Davies
comments: 10 pages, no figures, conference paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403017
abstract: There have been many claims that quantum mechanics plays a key role in the origin and/or operation of biological organisms, beyond merely providing the basis for the shapes and sizes of biological molecules and their chemical affinities. These range from the suggestion by Schrodinger that quantum fluctuations produce mutations, to the conjecture by Hameroff and Penrose that quantum coherence in microtubules is linked to consciousness. I review some of these claims in this paper, and discuss the serious problem of decoherence. I advance some further conjectures about quantum information processing in bio-systems. Some possible experiments are suggested.

id: quant-ph/0403018
title: Completely-Positive Non-Markovian Decoherence
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, Inbo Kim, Helen McAneney, M. S. Kim, Doyeol Ahn
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 024301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403018
abstract: We propose an effective Hamiltonian approach to investigate decoherence of a quantum system in a non-Markovian reservoir, naturally imposing the complete positivity on the reduced dynamics of the system. The formalism is based on the notion of an effective reservoir, i.e., certain collective degrees of freedom in the reservoir that are responsible for the decoherence. As examples for completely positive decoherence, we present three typical decoherence processes for a qubit such as dephasing, depolarizing, and amplitude-damping. The effects of the non-Markovian decoherence are compared to the Markovian decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0403019
title: Path integral in a magnetic field using the Trotter product formula
authors: B. Gaveau, E. Mihokova, M. Roncadelli, L. S. Schulman
comments: To appear in the American Journal of Physics, 2004
journal: Am. J. Phys. 72, 385-388 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403019
abstract: The derivation of the Feynman path integral based on the Trotter product formula is extended to the case where the system is in a magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0403020
title: On the Cyclotomic Quantum Algebra of Time Perception
authors: Michel Planat
comments: 
journal: Neuroquantology 2 (4) (2004) 292-308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403020
abstract: I develop the idea that time perception is the quantum counterpart to time measurement. Phase-locking and prime number theory were proposed as the unifying concepts for understanding the optimal synchronization of clocks and their 1/f frequency noise. Time perception is shown to depend on the thermodynamics of a quantum algebra of number and phase operators already proposed for quantum computational tasks, and to evolve according to a Hamiltonian mimicking Fechner's law. The mathematics is Bost and Connes quantum model for prime numbers. The picture that emerges is a unique perception state above a critical temperature and plenty of them allowed below, which are parametrized by the symmetry group for the primitive roots of unity. Squeezing of phase fluctuations close to the phase transition temperature may play a role in memory encoding and conscious activity.

id: quant-ph/0403021
title: Compatibility and probability
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 6pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403021
abstract: A review of various definitions of "compatibility" expressed in terms of ordinary probability, and a discussion of the occurrence of incompatibility (and the related phenomenon of interference) in non-quantal probabilistic systems.

id: quant-ph/0403022
title: Complementarity relations for multi-qubit systems
authors: Tracey E. Tessier
comments: 15 pages, to be published in Foundations of Physics Letters
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 18(2), 107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403022
abstract: We derive two complementarity relations that constrain the individual and bipartite properties that may simultaneously exist in a multi-qubit system. The first expression, valid for an arbitrary pure state of n qubits, demonstrates that the degree to which single particle properties are possessed by an individual member of the system is limited by the bipartite entanglement that exists between that qubit and the remainder of the system. This result implies that the phenomenon of entanglement sharing is one specific consequence of complementarity. The second expression, which holds for an arbitrary state of two qubits, pure or mixed, quantifies a tradeoff between the amounts of entanglement, separable uncertainty, and single particle properties that are encoded in the quantum state. The separable uncertainty is a natural measure of our ignorance about the properties possessed by individual subsystems, and may be used to completely characterize the relationship between entanglement and mixedness in two-qubit systems. The two-qubit complementarity relation yields a useful geometric picture in which the root mean square values of local subsystem properties act like coordinates in the space of density matrices, and suggests possible insights into the problem of interpreting quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0403023
title: Universal Quantum Computation through Control of Spin-Orbit Coupling
authors: D. Stepanenko, N. E. Bonesteel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (minor revision, references added)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 140501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403023
abstract: We propose a method for quantum computation which uses control of spin-orbit coupling in a linear array of single electron quantum dots. Quantum gates are carried out by pulsing the exchange interaction between neighboring electron spins, including the anisotropic corrections due to spin-orbit coupling. Control over these corrections, even if limited, is sufficient for universal quantum computation over qubits encoded into pairs of electron spins. The number of voltage pulses required to carry out either single qubit rotations or controlled-Not gates scales as the inverse of a dimensionless measure of the degree of control of spin-orbit coupling.

id: quant-ph/0403024
title: Experimental demonstration of entanglement-enhanced classical communication over a quantum channel with correlated noise
authors: K. Banaszek, A. Dragan, W. Wasilewski, C. Radzewicz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 257901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403024
abstract: We present an experiment demonstrating entanglement-enhanced classical communication capacity of a quantum channel with correlated noise. The channel is modelled by a fiber optic link exhibiting random birefringence that fluctuates on a time scale much longer than the temporal separation between consecutive uses of the channel. In this setting, introducing entanglement between two photons travelling down the fiber allows one to encode reliably up to one bit of information into their joint polarization degree of freedom. When no quantum correlations between two separate uses of the channel are allowed, this capacity is reduced by a factor of more than three. We demonstrated this effect using a fiber-coupled source of entagled photon pairs based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion, and a linear-optics Bell state measurement.

id: quant-ph/0403025
title: Universal Quantum Computation with ideal Clifford gates and noisy ancillas
authors: Sergei Bravyi, Alexei Kitaev
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403025
abstract: We consider a model of quantum computation in which the set of elementary operations is limited to Clifford unitaries, the creation of the state $|0>$, and qubit measurement in the computational basis. In addition, we allow the creation of a one-qubit ancilla in a mixed state $\rho$, which should be regarded as a parameter of the model. Our goal is to determine for which $\rho$ universal quantum computation (UQC) can be efficiently simulated. To answer this question, we construct purification protocols that consume several copies of $\rho$ and produce a single output qubit with higher polarization. The protocols allow one to increase the polarization only along certain ``magic'' directions. If the polarization of $\rho$ along a magic direction exceeds a threshold value (about 65%), the purification asymptotically yields a pure state, which we call a magic state. We show that the Clifford group operations combined with magic states preparation are sufficient for UQC. The connection of our results with the Gottesman-Knill theorem is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403026
title: The entanglement of Heisenberg chain with next-nearest-neighbor interaction
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Haibin Li, You-Quan Li, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403026
abstract: The features of the concurrences of the nearest-neighbor and the next-nearest-neighbor sites for one-dimensional Heisenberg model with the next-nearest-neighbor interaction are studied both at the ground state and finite temperatures respectively. Both concurrences are found to exhibit different behaviors at the ground state, which is clarified from the point of view of the correlation function. The threshold temperature with respective to different number of sites and the thermal concurrences of the system up to 12 sites are studied numerically.

id: quant-ph/0403027
title: Quantum mechanics and the equivalence principle
authors: P.C.W. Davies
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, research paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403027
abstract: A quantum particle moving in a gravitational field may penetrate the classically forbidden region of the gravitational potential. This raises the question of whether the time of flight of a quantum particle in a gravitational field might deviate systematically from that of a classical particle due to tunnelling delay, representing a violation of the weak equivalence principle. I investigate this using a model quantum clock to measure the time of flight of a quantum particle in a uniform gravitational field, and show that a violation of the equivalence principle does not occur when the measurement is made far from the turning point of the classical trajectory. I conclude with some remarks about the strong equivalence principle in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0403028
title: Applications of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency to Quantum Information Processing
authors: R. G. Beausoleil, W. J. Munro, D. A. Rodrigues, T. P. Spiller
comments: based on the Talk presented at the PQE 2004 conference in Snowbird, Utah
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 51, 2441 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403028
abstract: We provide a broad outline of the requirements that should be met by components produced for a Quantum Information Technology (QIT) industry, and we identify electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) as potentially key enabling science toward the goal of providing widely available few-qubit quantum information processing within the next decade. As a concrete example, we build on earlier work and discuss the implementation of a two-photon controlled phase gate and a one-photon phase gate using the approximate Kerr nonlinearity provided by EIT. We rigorously the dependence of the performance of these gates on atomic dephasing and field detuning and intensity, and we calculate the optimum parameters needed to apply a pi phase shift in a gate of a given fidelity. Although high-fidelity gate operation will be difficult to achieve with realistic system dephasing rates, the moderate fidelities that we believe will be needed for few-qubit QIT seem much more obtainable.

id: quant-ph/0403029
title: The effect of focusing on polarization qubits
authors: Netanel H. Lindner, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 7 pages, RevTeX4, 2 eps figure; published version
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52 (8) 1177-1188 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403029
abstract: When a photon with well-defined polarization and momentum passes through a focusing device, these properties are no longer well defined. Their loss is captured by describing polarization by a 3x3 effective density matrix. Here we show that the effective density matrix corresponds to the actual photodetection model and we provide a simple formula to calculate it in terms of classical fields. Moreover, we explore several possible experimental consequences of the "longitudinal" term: limits on single-photon detection efficiency, polarization-dependent atomic transitions rates and the implications on quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0403030
title: Quantum recurrences versus stability
authors: Louis L. Labuschagne, Wladyslaw A. Majewski
comments: to appear in Physics Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403030
abstract: Consequences of quantum recurrences on the stability of a broad class of dynamical systems is presented.

id: quant-ph/0403031
title: Fermionic Linear Optics Revisited
authors: David. P. DiVincenzo, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 16 pages, submitted to the special issue of Foundation of Physics in honor of Asher Peres' 70th birthday
journal: Foundations of Physics Vol.35, No. 12, pp. 1967--1984 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403031
abstract: We provide an alternative view of the efficient classical simulatibility of fermionic linear optics in terms of Slater determinants. We investigate the generic effects of two-mode measurements on the Slater number of fermionic states. We argue that most such measurements are not capable (in conjunction with fermion linear optics) of an efficient exact implementation of universal quantum computation. Our arguments do not apply to the two-mode parity measurement, for which exact quantum computation becomes possible, see quant-ph/0401066.

id: quant-ph/0403032
title: Multimode Interference: Identifying Channels and Ridges in Quantum Probability Distributions
authors: Ross C. O'Connell, Will Loinaz
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403032
abstract: The multimode interference technique is a simple way to study the interference patterns found in many quantum probability distributions. We demonstrate that this analysis not only explains the existence of so-called "quantum carpets," but can explain the spatial distribution of channels and ridges in the carpets. With an understanding of the factors that govern these channels and ridges we have a limited ability to produce a particular pattern of channels and ridges by carefully choosing the weighting coefficients c_{n} . We also use these results to demonstrate why fractional revivals of initial wavepackets are themselves composed of many smaller packets.

id: quant-ph/0403033
title: Cavity cooling of a single atom
authors: P. Maunz, T. Puppe, I. Schuster, N. Syassen, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 
journal: Nature 428, 50-52 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403033
abstract: All conventional methods to laser-cool atoms rely on repeated cycles of optical pumping and spontaneous emission of a photon by the atom. Spontaneous emission in a random direction is the dissipative mechanism required to remove entropy from the atom. However, alternative cooling methods have been proposed for a single atom strongly coupled to a high-finesse cavity; the role of spontaneous emission is replaced by the escape of a photon from the cavity. Application of such cooling schemes would improve the performance of atom cavity systems for quantum information processing. Furthermore, as cavity cooling does not rely on spontaneous emission, it can be applied to systems that cannot be laser-cooled by conventional methods; these include molecules (which do not have a closed transition) and collective excitations of Bose condensates, which are destroyed by randomly directed recoil kicks. Here we demonstrate cavity cooling of single rubidium atoms stored in an intracavity dipole trap. The cooling mechanism results in extended storage times and improved localization of atoms. We estimate that the observed cooling rate is at least five times larger than that produced by free-space cooling methods, for comparable excitation of the atom.

id: quant-ph/0403034
title: Dynamical Origin of Quantum Probabilities
authors: Antony Valentini, Hans Westman
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.A461:253-272,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403034
abstract: We study the origin of the Born probability rule rho = |psi|^2 in the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave formulation of quantum theory. It is argued that quantum probabilities arise dynamically, and have a status similar to thermal probabilities in ordinary statistical mechanics. This is illustrated by numerical simulations for a two-dimensional system. We show that a simple initial ensemble with a non-standard distribution rho not= |psi|^2 of particle positions evolves towards the quantum distribution to high accuracy. The relaxation process rho --> |psi|^2 is quantified in terms of a coarse-grained H-function (equal to minus the relative entropy of rho with respect to |psi|^2), which is found to decrease approximately exponentially over time, with a time constant that accords with a simple theoretical estimate.

id: quant-ph/0403035
title: Nature and Measure of Entanglement in Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Rolando Somma, Gerardo Ortiz, Howard Barnum, Emanuel Knill, Lorenza Viola
comments: 48 pages, 14 encapsulated eps color figures, REVTeX4 style. Expanded and clarified discussion of the critical behavior in the isotropic XY model in Section VI; added discussion on valence bond solid states in Appendix B; expanded bibliography
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042311/1-21 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403035
abstract: Characterizing and quantifying quantum correlations in states of many-particle systems is at the core of a full understanding of phase transitions in matter. In this work, we continue our investigation of the notion of generalized entanglement [Barnum et al. Phys. Rev. A 68, 032308 (2003)] by focusing on a simple Lie-algebraic measure of purity of a quantum state relative to an observable set. For the algebra of local observables on multi-qubit systems, the resulting local purity measure is equivalent to a recently introduced global entanglement measure [Meyer and Wallach, J. Math. Phys. 43, 4273 (2002)]. In the condensed-matter setting, the notion of Lie-algebraic purity is exploited to identify and characterize the quantum phase transitions present in two exactly solvable models: the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, and the spin-1/2 anisotropic XY model in a transverse magnetic field. For the latter, we argue that a natural fermionic observable-set arising after the Jordan-Wigner transformation, better characterizes the transition than alternative measures based on qubits. This illustrates the usefulness of going beyond the standard subsystem-based framework while providing a global disorder parameter for this model. Our results show how generalized entanglement leads to useful tools for distinguishing between the ordered and disordered phases in the case of broken symmetry quantum phase transitions. Additional implications and possible extensions of concepts to other systems of interest in condensed matter physics are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403036
title: An Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Scheme
authors: Xin L¨¹, Zhi Ma, Deng-Guo Feng
comments: This paper was withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403036
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors,because the proposed protocol is still coverd by the no-go theorem of Mayers, Lo and Chau. We thank H-K. Lo and HF Chau for helpful correspondences.

id: quant-ph/0403037
title: Nondeterministic Recursion with Quantum Units (I-V)
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403037
abstract: In this paper are discussed some formal properties of quantum devices necessary for implementation of nondeterministic Turing machine.

id: quant-ph/0403038
title: Uncertainty Relations (UR) Have Nothing to do with Quantum Mechanics (QM)
authors: Vladimir K. Ignatovich
comments: 5 pages 2 figures in the text, slightly edited and added three sections in reply to a referee report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403038
abstract: Uncertainty relations are shown to have nothing specific for quantum mechanics, being the general property valid for arbitrary function. A wave function of a particle having precisely defined position and momentum in QM simultaneously is demonstrated. Interference on two slits in a screen is shown to exist in classical mechanics. A nonlinear classical system of equations replacing QM Schr\"odinger equation is suggested. This approach is shown to have nothing in common with Bohmian mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0403039
title: Spin and Statistics in Galilean Covariant Field Theory
authors: C.R. Hagen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403039
abstract: The existence of a possible connection between spin and statistics is explored within the framework of Galilean covariant field theory. To this end fields of arbitrary spin are constructed and admissible interaction terms introduced. By explicitly solving such a model in the two particle sector it is shown that no spin and statistics connection can be established.

id: quant-ph/0403040
title: Comment on "A mathematical theorem as a basis for the second law: Thomson's formulation applied to equilibruim"
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403040
abstract: A.E. Allahverdyan and Th. M. Nieuwenhuizen [1] in their paper "A mathematical theorem as a basis for the second law: Thomson's formulation applied to equilibriium" present a proof of the second law of thermodynamics based on quantum mechanics. In this comment on their paper I offer a counterexample to their proof.

id: quant-ph/0403041
title: Improved algorithm for quantum separability and entanglement detection
authors: L. M. Ioannou, B. C. Travaglione, D. Cheung, A. K. Ekert
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 060303(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403041
abstract: Determining whether a quantum state is separable or entangled is a problem of fundamental importance in quantum information science. It has recently been shown that this problem is NP-hard. There is a highly inefficient `basic algorithm' for solving the quantum separability problem which follows from the definition of a separable state. By exploiting specific properties of the set of separable states, we introduce a new classical algorithm that solves the problem significantly faster than the `basic algorithm', allowing a feasible separability test where none previously existed e.g. in 3-by-3-dimensional systems. Our algorithm also provides a novel tool in the experimental detection of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0403042
title: On the distributed compression of quantum information
authors: Charlene Ahn, Andrew Doherty, Patrick Hayden, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages. v3 corrects an error in the section on irreducible product sources
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. 52(10):4349-4357, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403042
abstract: We consider the problem of distributed compression for correlated quantum sources. The classical version of this problem was solved by Slepian and Wolf, who showed that distributed compression could take full advantage of redundancy in the local sources created by the presence of correlations. We show that, in general, this is not the case for quantum sources by proving a lower bound on the rate sum for irreducible sources of product states which is stronger than the one given by a naive application of Slepian-Wolf. Nonetheless, strategies taking advantage of correlation do exist for some special classes of quantum sources. For example, Devetak and Winter demonstrated the existence of such a strategy when one of the sources is classical. Here we find optimal non-trivial strategies for a different extreme, sources of Bell states. In addition, we illustrate how distributed compression is connected to other problems in quantum information theory, including information-disturbance questions, entanglement distillation and quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0403043
title: Entanglement as an Observer-Dependent Concept: An Application to Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando Somma, Howard Barnum, Emanuel Knill, Lorenza Viola
comments: 13 pages, 4 encapsulated ps color figures. Clarified discussion of the critical behavior in the isotropic XY model in Section 4. To appear in Condensed Matter Theories, Vol. 19
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403043
abstract: This paper addresses the following main question: Do we have a theoretical understanding of entanglement applicable to a full variety of physical settings? It is clear that not only the assumption of distinguishability, but also the few-subsystem scenario, are too narrow to embrace all possible physical settings. In particular, the need to go beyond the traditional subsystem-based framework becomes manifest when one tries to apply the conventional concept of entanglement to the physics of matter, since the constituents of a quantum many-body system are indistinguishable particles. We shall discuss here a notion of generalized entanglement, which can be applied to any operator language (fermions, bosons, spins, etc.) used to describe a physical system and which includes the conventional entanglement settings introduced to date in a unified fashion. This is realized by noticing that entanglement is an observer-dependent concept, whose properties are determined by the expectations of a distinguished set of observables without reference to a preferred subsystem decomposition, i.e., it depends on the physically relevant point of view. This viewpoint depends in turn upon the relationship between different sets of observables that determine our ability to control the system of interest. Indeed, the extent to which entanglement is present depends on the observables used to measure a system and describe its states. This represents a most conspicuous advantage as will be highlighted by the condensed-matter application we will discuss.

id: quant-ph/0403044
title: Entanglement beyond subsystems
authors: Lorenza Viola, Howard Barnum, Emanuel Knill, Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando Somma
comments: 14 pages, no figures. Invited contribution to the Proceedings of the Coding Theory and Quantum Computing Workshop, AMS series in Contemporary Mathematics (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403044
abstract: We present a notion of generalized entanglement which goes beyond the conventional definition based on quantum subsystems. This is accomplished by directly defining entanglement as a property of quantum states relative to a distinguished set of observables singled out by Physics. While recovering standard entanglement as a special case, our notion allows for substantially broader generality and flexibility, being applicable, in particular, to situations where existing tools are not directly useful.

id: quant-ph/0403045
title: Finiteness of the universe and computation beyond Turing computability
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 2 pages. Extra notes added at the end of the paper on 16 April 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403045
abstract: We clarify the confusion, misunderstanding and misconception that the physical finiteness of the universe, if the universe is indeed finite, would rule out all hypercomputation, the kind of computation that exceeds the Turing computability, while maintaining and defending the validity of Turing computation and the Church-Turing thesis.

id: quant-ph/0403046
title: Quantum Digital Signature based on Quantum One-way Functions
authors: Xin L¨¹, Deng-Guo Feng
comments: 9 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403046
abstract: A quantum digital signature protocol based on quantum mechanics is proposed in this paper. The security of the protocol relies on the existence of quantum one-way functions by quantum information theorem. This protocol involves a so-called arbitrator who validates and authenticates the signed message. In this protocol, we use privacy key algorithm to ensure the security of quantum information on channel and use quantum public keys to sign message. To guarantee the authenticity of the message, a family of quantum stabilizer codes are employed. Our protocol presents a novel method to construct ultimately secure digital system in future secure communication.

id: quant-ph/0403047
title: Free particle states from Geometry
authors: F.M.C. Witte
comments: 6 pages, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403047
abstract: In this short paper I discuss how conformal geometric algebra models for euclidean and minkowski targetspaces determine the allowed quantum mechanical statespaces for free particles. I explicitly treat 2-dimensional euclidean space and (1+1)-dimensional spacetime.

id: quant-ph/0403048
title: Quantum implementation of elementary arithmetic operations
authors: G. Florio, D. Picca
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403048
abstract: Quantum computation has received great attention in recent years for its possible application to difficult problem in classical calculation. Despite the experimental problems of implementing quantum devices, theoretical physicists have tried to conceive some implementations for quantum algorithms. We present here some explicit schemes for executing elementary arithmetic operations.

id: quant-ph/0403049
title: Creating Steady Atom-Molecule Entanglement by Demkov-Kunike Type Non-adiabatic Transition
authors: P. Zhang, H. T. Quan, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403049
abstract: We, based on the photoassociation of fermion atoms into bosonic molecules, propose a scheme to create the steady entanglement between the atom state and the molecule state inside an optical lattice. The stability of entanglement state is guaranteed by sweeping the frequency of Ramman laser beam through resonance according to the second Demkov-Kunike (DK2) nonadiabatic transition model\cite{DK,models}. The probability amplitude of each components can be precisely controlled by adjusting the sweeping parameter.

id: quant-ph/0403050
title: Regularization of the Coulomb scattering problem
authors: V. G. Baryshevskii, I. D. Feranchuk, P. B. Kats
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403050
abstract: Exact solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation for the Coulomb potential are used in the scope of both stationary and time-dependent scattering theories in order to find the parameters which define regularization of the Rutherford cross-section when the scattering angle tends to zero but the distance r from the center remains fixed. Angular distribution of the particles scattered in the Coulomb field is investigated on the rather large but finite distance r from the center. It is shown that the standard asymptotic representation of the wave functions is not available in the case when small scattering angles are considered. Unitary property of the scattering matrix is analyzed and the "optical" theorem for this case is discussed. The total and transport cross-sections for scattering of the particle by the Coulomb center proved to be finite values and are calculated in the analytical form. It is shown that the considered effects can be essential for the observed characteristics of the transport processes in semiconductors which are defined by the electron and hole scattering in the fields of the charged impurity centers.

id: quant-ph/0403051
title: Quantum Models of Mind: Are They Compatible with Environment Decoherence?
authors: Jean Faber, Luiz Pinguelli Rosa
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403051
abstract: We criticize the Hameroff Penrose model in the context of quantum brain model by gravitational collapse orchestrated objective reduction, orch. OR, assumed by Penrose, and we propose instead that the decoherence process is caused by interaction with the environment. We consider it useful to exploit this possibility because of the growing importance of decoherence theory in quantum measurement, and also because quantum mechanics can be applied to brain study independently of the Hameroff Penrose model for mind and consciousness. Our conclusion is that the Hameroff Penrose model is not compatible with decoherence, but nevertheless quantum brain can still be considered if we replace gravitational collapse orch .OR with decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0403052
title: Scalable quantum computation in systems with Bose-Hubbard dynamics
authors: Guido Pupillo, Ana Maria Rey, Gavin Brennen, Carl J. Williams, Charles W. Clark
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Expanded version of manuscript submitted to the Journal of Modern Optics. v2 corrects typesetting error in Fig. 2
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 51, 2395 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403052
abstract: Several proposals for quantum computation utilize a lattice type architecture with qubits trapped by a periodic potential. For systems undergoing many body interactions described by the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, the ground state of the system carries number fluctuations that scale with the number of qubits. This process degrades the initialization of the quantum computer register and can introduce errors during error correction. In an earlier manuscript we proposed a solution to this problem tailored to the loading of cold atoms into an optical lattice via the Mott Insulator phase transition. It was shown that by adding an inhomogeneity to the lattice and performing a continuous measurement, the unit filled state suitable for a quantum computer register can be maintained. Here, we give a more rigorous derivation of the register fidelity in homogeneous and inhomogeneous lattices and provide evidence that the protocol is effective in the finite temperature regime.

id: quant-ph/0403053
title: Improved Quantum Cost for n-bit Toffoli Gates
authors: Dmitri Maslov, Gerhard W. Dueck
comments: 
journal: IEE Electronics Letters, 39(25):1790-1791, December 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403053
abstract: We present an n-bit Toffoli gate quantum circuit based on the realization proposed by Barenco, where some of the Toffoli gates in their construction are replaced with Peres gates. This results in a significant cost reduction. Our main contribution is a quantum circuit which simulates the (m+1)-bit Toffoli gate with 32m-96 elementary quantum gates and one garbage bit which is passed unchanged. This paper is a corrected and expanded version of our recent journal publication.

id: quant-ph/0403054
title: Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi analysis of PT symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403054
abstract: We apply the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi formalism, naturally defined in the complex domain, to a number of complex Hamiltonians, characterized by discrete parity and time reversal (PT) symmetries and obtain their eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. Examples of both quasi-exactly and exactly solvable potentials are analyzed and the subtle differences, in the singularity structures of their quantum momentum functions, are pointed out. The role of the PT symmetry in the complex domain is also illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0403055
title: Classical Extensions, Classical Representations and Bayesian Updating in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi
comments: 14 pages, presented at the conference 'Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations - 2', Vaexjoe, Sweden, June 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403055
abstract: I review the formalism of classical extensions of quantum mechanics introduced by Beltrametti and Bugajski, and compare it to the classical representations discussed e.g. by Busch, Hellwig and Stulpe and recently used by Fuchs in his discussion of quantum mechanics in terms of standard quantum measurements. I treat the problem of finding Bayesian analogues of the state transition associated with measurement in the canonical classical extension as well as in the related 'uniform' classical representation. In the classical extension, the analogy is extremely good.

id: quant-ph/0403056
title: Quantum Identification of Boolean Oracles
authors: Andris Ambainis, Kazuo Iwama, Akinori Kawachi, Hiroyuki Masuda, Raymond H. Putra, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Proceedings of STACS 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403056
abstract: The oracle identification problem (OIP) is, given a set $S$ of $M$ Boolean oracles out of $2^{N}$ ones, to determine which oracle in $S$ is the current black-box oracle. We can exploit the information that candidates of the current oracle is restricted to $S$. The OIP contains several concrete problems such as the original Grover search and the Bernstein-Vazirani problem. Our interest is in the quantum query complexity, for which we present several upper and lower bounds. They are quite general and mostly optimal: (i) The query complexity of OIP is $O(\sqrt{N\log M \log N}\log\log M)$ for {\it any} $S$ such that $M = |S| > N$, which is better than the obvious bound $N$ if $M < 2^{N/\log^{3}N}$. (ii) It is $O(\sqrt{N})$ for {\it any} $S$ if $|S| = N$, which includes the upper bound for the Grover search as a special case. (iii) For a wide range of oracles ($|S| = N$) such as random oracles and balanced oracles, the query complexity is $\Theta(\sqrt{N/K})$, where $K$ is a simple parameter determined by $S$.

id: quant-ph/0403057
title: Coherent backscattering of light by atoms in the saturated regime
authors: T. Wellens, B. Gremaud, D. Delande, C. Miniatura
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403057
abstract: We present the first calculation of coherent backscattering with inelastic scattering by saturated atoms. We consider the scattering of a quasi-monochromatic laser pulse by two distant atoms in free space. By restricting ourselves to scattering of two photons, we employ a perturbative approach, valid up to second order in the incident laser intensity. The backscattering enhancement factor is found to be smaller than two (after excluding single scattering), indicating a loss of coherence between the doubly scattered light emitted by both atoms. Since the undetected photon carries information about the path of the detected photon, the coherence loss can be explained by a which-path argument, in analogy with a double-slit experiment.

id: quant-ph/0403058
title: Criteria for unconditional entanglement purification
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: The motivation and the title are changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403058
abstract: We show that the fidelity result of advantage distillation (Bennett et al, Phys. Rev. Lett., 76, 722(1996)) is not only for the product state of raw pairs, it is actually correct with whatever form of state of raw pairs. We then give a general theorem for unconditional entanglement purification. This theorem lists the conditions on which the fidelity result of a purification protocol keeps unchanged from product form of raw-pair state and arbitrary form of raw-pair state. Using this theorem, we find that all existing purification puricfication can work for arbitrary initial state of raw pairs.

id: quant-ph/0403059
title: Comment on 'Grover Search with Pairs of Trapped Ions'
authors: Charles Hill, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: Contains an analytic expression for the probability of success of Grover's algorithm for any unitary operator, U, instead of Hadamard
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403059
abstract: In this brief comment on `Grover search with pairs of trapped Ions' [Phys. Rev. A 63, 052308, (2001)], we show that Grover's algorithm may be performed exactly using the gate set given provided that small changes are made to the gate sequence. An analytic expression for the probability of success of Grover's algorithm for any unitary operator, U, instead of Hadamard is presented.

id: quant-ph/0403060
title: The twistor geometry of three-qubit entanglement
authors: Peter Levay
comments: 4 pages RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403060
abstract: A geometrical description of three qubit entanglement is given. A part of the transformations corresponding to stochastic local operations and classical communication on the qubits is regarded as a gauge degree of freedom. Entangled states can be represented by the points of the Klein quadric ${\cal Q}$ a space known from twistor theory. It is shown that three-qubit invariants are vanishing on special subspaces of ${\cal Q}$. An invariant vanishing for the $GHZ$ class is proposed. A geometric interpretation of the canonical decomposition and the inequality for distributed entanglement is also given.

id: quant-ph/0403061
title: Driven chaotic mesoscopic systems, dissipation and decoherence
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: Lecture notes of a course in the 2002 Karpacz school, 19 pages, 18 figures, with Refs updated
journal: In "Dynamics of Dissipation", Proc. of the 38th Karpacz Winter School of Theoretical Physics, Ed. P. Garbaczewski and R. Olkiewicz (Springer, 2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403061
abstract: Driven chaotic systems are of interest in mesoscopic physics, as well as in nuclear, atomic and molecular physics. Such systems [coordinates $(Q,P)$]$ tend to absorb energy. This irreversible effect is known as dissipation. "Driving" means that a parameter $x$ is changed in time. More generally, $x$ may be a dynamical variable. In such case the interaction of $(x,p)$ with the environmental degrees of freedom $(Q,P)$ leads to dephasing as well as to dissipation. We introduce a general framework for the analysis of dissipation and dephasing, and we clarify the tight connection to recent studies of quantum irreversibility (also referred to as "Loschmidt echo" or as the "fidelity" of quantum computation). Specific model systems that will be presented are: particle in a box driven by moving a wall, and particle in a box/ring driven by electro-motive-force. These two examples are related to studies of nuclear friction and mesoscopic conductance.

id: quant-ph/0403062
title: Demonstration of an all-optical quantum controlled-NOT gate
authors: J L O'Brien, G J Pryde, A G White, T C Ralph, D Branning
comments: 5 pages, 4 Figs. Ref. 31 added to correct error in referencing in the published version
journal: Nature.426:264,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403062
abstract: The promise of tremendous computational power, coupled with the development of robust error-correcting schemes, has fuelled extensive efforts to build a quantum computer. The requirements for realizing such a device are confounding: scalable quantum bits (two-level quantum systems, or qubits) that can be well isolated from the environment, but also initialized, measured and made to undergo controllable interactions to implement a universal set of quantum logic gates. The usual set consists of single qubit rotations and a controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate, which flips the state of a target qubit conditional on the control qubit being in the state 1. Here we report an unambiguous experimental demonstration and comprehensive characterization of quantum CNOT operation in an optical system. We produce all four entangled Bell states as a function of only the input qubits' logical values, for a single operating condition of the gate. The gate is probabilistic (the qubits are destroyed upon failure), but with the addition of linear optical quantum non-demolition measurements, it is equivalent to the CNOT gate required for scalable all-optical quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0403063
title: Concurrence of mixed bipartite quantum states in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Florian Mintert, Marek Kus, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: accepted py PRL
journal: PRL 92, 167902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403063
abstract: We derive a lower bound for the concurrence of mixed bipartite quantum states, valid in arbitrary dimensions. As a corollary, a weaker, purely algebraic estimate is found, which detects mixed entangled states with positive partial transpose.

id: quant-ph/0403064
title: Continuous variable quantum key distribution using polarization encoding and post selection
authors: Stefan Lorenz, Natalia Korolkova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403064
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of a quantum key distribution protocol using coherent polarization states. Post selection is used to ensure a low error rate and security against beam splitting attacks even in the presence of high losses. Signal encoding and readout in polarization bases avoids the difficult task of sending a local oscillator with the quantum channel. This makes our setup robust and easy to implement. A shared key was established for losses up to 64%.

id: quant-ph/0403065
title: On the Optimal Mean Photon Number for Quantum Cryptography
authors: David Pearson, Chip Elliott
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403065
abstract: The optimal mean photon number (mu) for quantum cryptography is the average photon number per transmitted pulse that results in the highest delivery rate of distilled cryptographic key bits, given a specific system scenario and set of assumptions about Eve's capabilities. Although many experimental systems have employed a mean photon number (mu) of 0.1 in practice, several research teams have pointed out that this value is somewhat arbitrary. In fact, various optimal values for mu have been described in the literature. In this paper we offer a detailed analytic model for an experimental, fiber-based quantum cryptographic system, and an explicit set of reasonable assumptions about Eve's current technical capabilities. We explicitly model total system behavior ranging from physical effects to the results of quantum cryptographic protocols such as error correction and privacy amplification. We then derive the optimal photon number (mu) for this system in a range of scenarios. One interesting result is that mu of approximately 1.1 is optimal for a wide range of realistic, fiber-based QKD systems; in fact, it provides nearly 10 times the distilled throughput of systems that employ a more conventional mu = 0.1, without any adverse affect on system security, as judged against a set of reasonable assumptions about Eve's current capabilities.

id: quant-ph/0403066
title: Quantum walks on graphs and quantum scattering theory
authors: Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: Contribution to Proceedings of Conference on Coding Theory and Quantum Computing
journal: Coding Theory and Quantum Computing, edited by D. Evans, J. Holt, C. Jones, K. Klintworth, B. Parshall, O. Pfister, and H. Ward, Contemporary Mathematics, 381, 71 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403066
abstract: We discuss a particular kind of quantum walk on a general graph. We affix two semi-infinite lines to a general finite graph, which we call tails. On the tails, the particle making the walk simply advances one unit at each time step, so that its behavior there is analogous to free propagation We are interested in how many steps it will take the particle, starting on one tail and propagating through the graph (where its propagation is not free), to emerge onto the other tail. The probability to make such a walk in n steps and the hitting time for such a walk can be expressed in terms of the transmission amplitude for the graph, which is one element of its S matrix. Demonstrating this necessitates a study of the analyticity properties of the transmission and reflection amplitudes of a graph. We show that the graph can have bound states that cannot be accessed by a particle entering the graph from one of its tails. Time-reversal invariance of a quantum walk is defined and used to show that the transmission amplitudes for the particle entering the graph from different directions are the same if the walk is time-reversal invariant.

id: quant-ph/0403067
title: Contradictions of the quantum scattering theory
authors: V. K. Ignatovich
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures, It is a version submitted to Phys.Rev.A and rejected. Small paragraph and the discussion with referees is added
journal: There is 1-st version in Concepts of Physics, V.1 p. 51, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403067
abstract: The standard scattering theory (SST) in non relativistic quantum mechanics (QM) is analyzed. Self-contradictions of SST are deconstructed. A direct way to calculate scattering probability without introduction of a finite volume is discussed. Substantiation of SST in textbooks with the help of wave packets is shown to be incomplete. A complete theory of wave packets scattering on a fixed center is presented, and its similarity to the plane wave scattering is demonstrated. The neutron scattering on a monatomic gas is investigated, and several problems are pointed out. A catastrophic ambiguity of the cross section is revealed, and a way to resolve this ambiguity is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403068
title: Non-additivity of quantum capacity for multiparty communication channels
authors: W. D¨¹r, J. I. Cirac, P. Horodecki
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 020503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403068
abstract: We investigate multiparty communication scenarios where information is sent from several sender to several receivers. We establish a relation between the quantum capacity of multiparty communication channels and their distillability properties which enables us to show that the quantum capacity of such channels is not additive.

id: quant-ph/0403069
title: Computational Indistinguishability between Quantum States and Its Cryptographic Application
authors: Akinori Kawachi, Takeshi Koshiba, Harumichi Nishimura, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures. We improved presentation, and added more detail proofs and follow-up of recent work
journal: Journal of Cryptology 25(3): 528-555 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403069
abstract: We introduce a computational problem of distinguishing between two specific quantum states as a new cryptographic problem to design a quantum cryptographic scheme that is "secure" against any polynomial-time quantum adversary. Our problem, QSCDff, is to distinguish between two types of random coset states with a hidden permutation over the symmetric group of finite degree. This naturally generalizes the commonly-used distinction problem between two probability distributions in computational cryptography. As our major contribution, we show that QSCDff has three properties of cryptographic interest: (i) QSCDff has a trapdoor; (ii) the average-case hardness of QSCDff coincides with its worst-case hardness; and (iii) QSCDff is computationally at least as hard as the graph automorphism problem in the worst case. These cryptographic properties enable us to construct a quantum public-key cryptosystem, which is likely to withstand any chosen plaintext attack of a polynomial-time quantum adversary. We further discuss a generalization of QSCDff, called QSCDcyc, and introduce a multi-bit encryption scheme that relies on similar cryptographic properties of QSCDcyc.

id: quant-ph/0403070
title: Geometric Phases for Mixed States during Cyclic Evolutions
authors: Li-Bin Fu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. and Gen. 37, 3699 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403070
abstract: The geometric phases of cyclic evolutions for mixed states are discussed in the framework of unitary evolution. A canonical one-form is defined whose line integral gives the geometric phase which is gauge invariant. It reduces to the Aharonov and Anandan phase in the pure state case. Our definition is consistent with the phase shift in the proposed experiment [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{85}, 2845 (2000)] for a cyclic evolution if the unitary transformation satisfies the parallel transport condition. A comprehensive geometric interpretation is also given. It shows that the geometric phases for mixed states share the same geometric sense with the pure states.

id: quant-ph/0403071
title: Improved Bounds for the Approximate QFT
authors: Donny Cheung
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc. of the Winter Intl Symposium of Information and Communication Technologies (WISICT 2004), pp. 192-197
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403071
abstract: It has previously been established that the logarithmic-depth approximate quantum Fourier transform (AQFT) provides a suitable replacement for the regular QFT in many quantum algorithms. Since the AQFT is less accurate by definition, polynomially many more applications of the AQFT are required to achieve the original accuracy. However, in many quantum algorithms, the smaller size of the AQFT circuit yields a net improvement over using the QFT. This paper presents a more thorough analysis of the AQFT circuit, which leads to the surprising conclusion that for sufficiently large input sizes, the difference between the QFT and the logarithmic-depth AQFT is negligible. In effect, the AQFT can be used as an direct replacement for the QFT, yielding improvements in any application which does not require exact quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0403072
title: A quantum channel with additive minimum output entropy
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Alexander S.Holevo, Yuri M.Suhov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403072
abstract: We give a direct proof of the additivity of the minimum output entropy of a particular quantum channel which breaks the multiplicativity conjecture. This yields additivity of the classical capacity of this channel, a result obtained by a different method by Matsumoto and Yura [quant-ph/0306009]. Our proof relies heavily upon certain concavity properties of the output entropy which are of independent interest.

id: quant-ph/0403073
title: Characterization of distillability of entanglement in terms of positive maps
authors: Lieven Clarisse
comments: 4 pages, revtex4. Published revised version, title changed, expanded discussion, main result unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032332 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403073
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition for 1-distillability is formulated in terms of decomposable positive maps. As an application we provide insight into why all states violating the reduction criterion map are distillable and demonstrate how to construct such maps in a systematic way. We establish a connection between a number of existing results, which leads to an elementary proof for the characterisation of distillability in terms of 2-positive maps.

id: quant-ph/0403074
title: Purity and State Fidelity of Quantum Channels via Hamiltonians
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Daniel Lidar
comments: 7 Pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403074
abstract: We associate to every quantum channel $T$ acting on a Hilbert space $\mathcal{H}$ a pair of Hamiltonian operators over the symmetric subspace of $\mathcal{H}^{\otimes 2}$. The expectation values of these Hamiltonians over symmetric product states give either the purity or the pure state fidelity of $T$. This allows us to analytically compute these measures for a wide class of channels, and to identify states that are optimal with respect to these measures.

id: quant-ph/0403075
title: Additivity properties of a Gaussian Channel
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure (minor error present in the published version corrected)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403075
abstract: The Amosov-Holevo-Werner conjecture implies the additivity of the minimum Re'nyi entropies at the output of a channel. The conjecture is proven true for all Re'nyi entropies of integer order greater than two in a class of Gaussian bosonic channel where the input signal is randomly displaced or where it is coupled linearly to an external environment.

id: quant-ph/0403076
title: Quantum key distribution using polarized coherent states
authors: A. Vidiella-Barranco, L.F.M. Borelli
comments: Inclusion of a discussion about noise not controlled by Eve; inclusion of a figure. A simplified version of this paper was submitted to a Conference in Brazil (XXVII ENFMC) in 16/02/2004
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B., 20, 1287 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403076
abstract: We discuss a continuous variables method of quantum key distribution employing strongly polarized coherent states of light. The key encoding is performed using the variables known as Stokes parameters, rather than the field quadratures. Their quantum counterpart, the Stokes operators $\hat{S}_i$ (i=1,2,3), constitute a set of non-commuting operators, being the precision of simultaneous measurements of a pair of them limited by an uncertainty-like relation. Alice transmits a conveniently modulated two-mode coherent state, and Bob randomly measures one of the Stokes parameters of the incoming beam. After performing reconciliation and privacy amplification procedures, it is possible to distill a secret common key. We also consider a non-ideal situation, in which coherent states with thermal noise, instead of pure coherent states, are used for encoding.

id: quant-ph/0403077
title: Multi-Qubit Gates in Arrays Coupled by 'Always On' Interactions
authors: Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 20 pages in preprint format, inc. 3 figures. This version has fixed typos and printer-friendly figures, and is to appear in NJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403077
abstract: Recently there has been interest in the idea of quantum computing without control of the physical interactions between component qubits. This is highly appealing since the 'switching' of such interactions is a principal difficulty in creating real devices. It has been established that one can employ 'always on' interactions in a one-dimensional Heisenberg chain, provided that one can tune the Zeeman energies of the individual (pseudo-)spins. It is important to generalize this scheme to higher dimensional networks, since a real device would probably be of that kind. Such generalisations have been proposed, but only at the severe cost that the efficiency of qubit storage must *fall*. Here we propose the use of multi-qubit gates within such higher-dimensional arrays, finding a novel three-qubit gate that can in fact increase the efficiency beyond the linear model. Thus we are able to propose higher dimensional networks that can constitute a better embodiment of the 'always on' concept - a substantial step toward bringing this novel concept to full fruition.

id: quant-ph/0403078
title: Universal quantum data compression via gentle tomography
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Aram W. Harrow, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032336 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403078
abstract: Quantum state tomography--the practice of estimating a quantum state by performing measurements on it--is useful in a variety of contexts. We introduce "gentle tomography" as a version of tomography that preserves the measured quantum data. As an application of gentle tomography, we describe a simple polynomial-time method for universal source coding.

id: quant-ph/0403079
title: Are all reversible computations tidy?
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure eps
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403079
abstract: It has long been known that to minimise the heat emitted by a deterministic computer during it's operation it is necessary to make the computation act in a logically reversible manner\cite{Lan61}. Such logically reversible operations require a number of auxiliary bits to be stored, maintaining a history of the computation, and which allows the initial state to be reconstructed by running the computation in reverse. These auxiliary bits are wasteful of resources and may require a dissipation of energy for them to be reused. A simple procedure due to Bennett\cite{Ben73} allows these auxiliary bits to be "tidied", without dissipating energy, on a classical computer. All reversible classical computations can be made tidy in this way. However, this procedure depends upon a classical operation ("cloning") that cannot be generalised to quantum computers\cite{WZ82}. Quantum computations must be logically reversible, and therefore produce auxiliary qbits during their operation. We show that there are classes of quantum computation for which Bennett's procedure cannot be implemented. For some of these computations there may exist another method for which the computation may be "tidied". However, we also show there are quantum computations for which there is no possible method for tidying the auxiliary qbits. Not all reversible quantum computations can be made "tidy". This represents a fundamental additional energy burden to quantum computations. This paper extends results in \cite{Mar01}.

id: quant-ph/0403080
title: Influence of branch points in the complex plane on the transmission through double quantum dots
authors: I. Rotter, A. F. Sadreev
comments: 30 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403080
abstract: We consider single-channel transmission through a double quantum dot system consisting of two single dots that are connected by a wire and coupled each to one lead. The system is described in the framework of the S-matrix theory by using the effective Hamiltonian of the open quantum system. It consists of the Hamiltonian of the closed system (without attached leads) and a term that accounts for the coupling of the states via the continuum of propagating modes in the leads. This model allows to study the physical meaning of branch points in the complex plane. They are points of coalesced eigenvalues and separate the two scenarios with avoided level crossings and without any crossings in the complex plane. They influence strongly the features of transmission through double quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0403081
title: Quantum dwell times
authors: J. A. Damborenea, I. L. Egusquiza, J. G. Muga, B. Navarro
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403081
abstract: We put forward several inherently quantum characteristics of the dwell time, and propose an operational method to detect them. The quantum dwell time is pointed out to be a conserved quantity, totally bypassing Pauli's theorem. Furthermore, the quantum dwell time in a region for one dimensional motion is doubly degenerate. In presence of a potential barrier, the dwell time becomes bounded, unlike the classical quantity. By using off-resonance coupling to a laser we propose an operational method to measure the absorption by a complex potential, and thereby the average time spent by an incoming atom in the laser region.

id: quant-ph/0403082
title: Gate simulation and lower bounds on the simulation time
authors: Robert Zeier, Markus Grassl, Thomas Beth
comments: 17 pages
journal: Physical Review A 70, 032319 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403082
abstract: Unitary operations are the building blocks of quantum programs. Our task is to design effcient or optimal implementations of these unitary operations by employing the intrinsic physical resources of a given n-qubit system. The most common versions of this task are known as Hamiltonian simulation and gate simulation, where Hamiltonian simulation can be seen as an infinitesimal version of the general task of gate simulation. We present a Lie-theoretic approach to Hamiltonian simulation and gate simulation. From this, we derive lower bounds on the time complexity in the n-qubit case, generalizing known results to both even and odd n. To achieve this we develop a generalization of the so-called magic basis for two-qubits. As a corollary, we note a connection to entanglement measures of concurrence-type.

id: quant-ph/0403083
title: Covariant quantum measurements which maximize the likelihood
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Massimiliano Federico Sacchi
comments: 8 pages, RevTex style, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062105 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403083
abstract: We derive the class of covariant measurements which are optimal according to the maximum likelihood criterion. The optimization problem is fully resolved in the case of pure input states, under the physically meaningful hypotheses of unimodularity of the covariance group and measurability of the stability subgroup. The general result is applied to the case of covariant state estimation for finite dimension, and to the Weyl-Heisenberg displacement estimation in infinite dimension. We also consider estimation with multiple copies, and compare collective measurements on identical copies with the scheme of independent measurements on each copy. A "continuous-variables" analogue of the measurement of direction of the angular momentum with two anti-parallel spins by Gisin and Popescu is given.

id: quant-ph/0403084
title: Probability tables
authors: P. G. L. Mana
comments: LaTeX, 17 pages, 1 figure. Contribution to the conference ``Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations 2'' (Vaexjoe, Sweden, 2003). To appear in the Proceedings (the notation in this version has been slightly modified, and the references updated)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403084
abstract: The idea of writing a table of probabilistic data for a quantum or classical system, and of decomposing this table in a compact way, leads to a shortcut for Hardy's formalism, and gives new perspectives on foundational issues.

id: quant-ph/0403085
title: Modeling full adder in Ising spin quantum computer with 1000 qubits using quantum maps
authors: D. I. Kamenev, G. P. Berman, R. B. Kassman, V. I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403085
abstract: The quantum adder is an essential attribute of a quantum computer, just as classical adder is needed for operation of a digital computer. We model the quantum full adder as a realistic complex algorithm on a large number of qubits in an Ising-spin quantum computer. Our results are an important step toward effective modeling of the quantum modular adder which is needed for Shor's and other quantum algorithms. Our full adder has the following features: (i) The near-resonant transitions with small detunings are completely suppressed, which allows us to decrease errors by several orders of magnitude and to model a 1000-qubit full adder. (We add a 1000-bit number using 2001 spins.) (ii) We construct the full adder gates directly as sequences of radio-frequency pulses, rather than breaking them down into generalized logical gates, such as Control-Not and one qubit gates. This substantially reduces the number of pulses needed to implement the full adder. [The maximum number of pulses required to add one bit (F-gate) is 15]. (iii) Full adder is realized in a homogeneous spin chain. (iv) The phase error is minimized: the F-gates generate approximately the same phase for different states of the superposition. (v) Modeling of the full adder is performed using quantum maps instead of differential equations. This allows us to reduce the calculation time to a reasonable value.

id: quant-ph/0403086
title: Measurement-assisted Coherent Control
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Stuart A. Rice
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 120, 9984 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403086
abstract: Two advantageous roles of the influence of measurement on a system subject to coherent control are exposed using a five-level model system. In particular, a continuous measurement of the population in a branch state in the Kobrak-Rice extended stimulated Raman adiabatic passage scheme is shown to provide a powerful means for controlling the population transfer branching ratio between two degenerate target states. It is demonstrated that a measurement with a large strength may be used to completely shut off the yield of one target state and that the same measurement with a weak strength can dramatically enhance the robustness of the controlled branching ratio against dephasing.

id: quant-ph/0403087
title: A remark about the Mermin-Squires Music Hall's inteludium
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403087
abstract: The Mermin-Squires Music Hall inteludium on the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen affair is analyzed by showing the fallacity of the One-Borel-Normality Criterion and the necessity of replacing it with the more restrictive Algorithmic-Randomness Criterion

id: quant-ph/0403088
title: The Importance of Being Unistochastic
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 8 pages, contribution to the Second Vaxjo Conference of Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403088
abstract: A bistochastic matrix is a square matrix with positive entries such that rows and columns sum to unity. A unistochastic matrix is a bistochastic matrix whose matrix elements are the absolute values squared of a unitary matrix. We can now ask questions such as when a given bistochastic matrix is unistochastic. I review these questions: Why they are asked, why they are difficult to answer, and what is known about them.

id: quant-ph/0403089
title: Distillability and positivity of partial transposes in general quantum field systems
authors: Rainer Verch, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures. v2: Typos removed, references and comments added. v3: Expanded introduction and reference list. To appear in Rev. Math. Phys
journal: Rev.Math.Phys. 17 (2005) 545-576
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403089
abstract: Criteria for distillability, and the property of having a positive partial transpose, are introduced for states of general bipartite quantum systems. The framework is sufficiently general to include systems with an infinite number of degrees of freedom, including quantum fields. We show that a large number of states in relativistic quantum field theory, including the vacuum state and thermal equilibrium states, are distillable over subsystems separated by arbitrary spacelike distances. These results apply to any quantum field model. It will also be shown that these results can be generalized to quantum fields in curved spacetime, leading to the conclusion that there is a large number of quantum field states which are distillable over subsystems separated by an event horizon.

id: quant-ph/0403090
title: Scalable Superconducting Architecture for Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: William M. Kaminsky, Seth Lloyd, Terry P. Orlando
comments: v1: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4 v2: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4. Submitted to PRL. Minor prose changes to fit in space limit. No changes in results or conclusions. Acknowledgement to DARPA QuIST program added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403090
abstract: A scalable superconducting architecture for adiabatic quantum computers is proposed. The architecture is based on time-independent, nearest-neighbor interqubit couplings: it can handle any problem in the class NP even in the presence of measurement errors, noise, and decoherence. The implementation of this architecture with superconducting persistent-current qubits and the natural robustness of such an implementation to manufacturing imprecision and decoherence are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403091
title: Bitwise Bell inequality violations for an entangled state involving 2N ions
authors: D. T. Pope, G. J. Milburn
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 052102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403091
abstract: Following on from previous work [J. A. Larsson, Phys. Rev. A 67, 022108 (2003)], Bell inequalities based on correlations between binary digits are considered for a particular entangled state involving 2N trapped ions. These inequalities involve applying displacement operations to half of the ions and then measuring correlations between pairs of corresponding bits in the binary representations of the number of centre-of-mass phonons of N particular ions. It is shown that the state violates the inequalities and thus displays nonclassical correlations. It is also demonstrated that it violates a Bell inequality when the displacements are replaced by squeezing operations.

id: quant-ph/0403092
title: On quantum error-correction by classical feedback in discrete time
authors: M. Gregoratti, R.F. Werner
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403092
abstract: We consider the problem of correcting the errors incurred from sending quantum information through a noisy quantum environment by using classical information obtained from a measurement on the environment. For discrete time Markovian evolutions, in the case of fixed measurement on the environment, we give criteria for quantum information to be perfectly corrigible and characterize the related feedback. Then we analyze the case when perfect correction is not possible and, in the qubit case, we find optimal feedback maximizing the channel fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0403093
title: Transition from pure-state to mixed-state entanglement by random scattering
authors: J.L. van Velsen, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 6 pages including 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A 70, 032325 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403093
abstract: We calculate the effect of polarization-dependent scattering by disorder on the degree of polarization-entanglement of two beams of radiation. Multi-mode detection converts an initially pure state into a mixed state with respect to the polarization degrees of freedom. The degree of entanglement decays exponentially with the number of detected modes if the scattering mixes the polarization directions and algebraically if it does not.

id: quant-ph/0403094
title: Solving the measurement problem: de Broglie-Bohm loses out to Everett
authors: Harvey R. Brown, David Wallace
comments: 20 pages; submitted to special issue of Foundations of Physics, in honour of James T. Cushing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403094
abstract: The quantum theory of de Broglie and Bohm solves the measurement problem, but the hypothetical corpuscles play no role in the argument. The solution finds a more natural home in the Everett interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0403095
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Trinary Operator Sets for N Qutrits
authors: Jay Lawrence
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages, 2 references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403095
abstract: A complete orthonormal basis of N-qutrit unitary operators drawn from the Pauli Group consists of the identity and 9^N-1 traceless operators. The traceless ones partition into 3^N+1 maximally commuting subsets (MCS's) of 3^N-1 operators each, whose joint eigenbases are mutually unbiased. We prove that Pauli factor groups of order 3^N are isomorphic to all MCS's, and show how this result applies in specific cases. For two qutrits, the 80 traceless operators partition into 10 MCS's. We prove that 4 of the corresponding basis sets must be separable, while 6 must be totally entangled (and Bell-like). For three qutrits, 728 operators partition into 28 MCS's with less rigid structure allowing for the coexistence of separable, partially-entangled, and totally entangled (GHZ-like) bases. However, a minimum of 16 GHZ-like bases must occur. Every basis state is described by an N-digit trinary number consisting of the eigenvalues of N observables constructed from the corresponding MCS.

id: quant-ph/0403096
title: Continuous Weak Measurement and Nonlinear Dynamics in a Cold Spin Ensemble
authors: Greg A. Smith, Souma Chaudhury, Andrew Silberfarb, Ivan H. Deutsch, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages ReVTeX4 with 4 figures, modified text and figures in response to referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 p.163602 (October 15, 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403096
abstract: A weak continuous quantum measurement of an atomic spin ensemble can be implemented via Faraday rotation of an off-resonance probe beam, and may be used to create and probe nonclassical spin states and dynamics. We show that the probe light shift leads to nonlinearity in the spin dynamics and limits the useful Faraday measurement window. Removing the nonlinearity allows a non-perturbing measurement on the much longer timescale set by decoherence. The nonlinear spin Hamiltonian is of interest for studies of quantum chaos and real-time quantum state estimation.

id: quant-ph/0403097
title: Entropy production and fidelity for quantum many-body systems with noise
authors: F.M.Izrailev, A.Castaneda-Mendoza
comments: RevTex, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering; 2004; v.5472, p.252-265
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403097
abstract: We study dynamical properties of systems with many interacting Fermi-particles under the influence of static imperfections. Main attention is payed to the time dependence of the Shannon entropy of wave packets, and to the fidelity of the dynamics. Our question is how the entropy and fidelity are sensitive to the noise. In our study, we use both random matrix models with two-body interaction and dynamical models of a quantum computation. Numerical data are compared with analytical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0403098
title: The Green function for thermal waves induced by attosecond laser pulses in one and three dimensions
authors: J. Marciak-Kozlowska, M. Kozlowski
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403098
abstract: In this paper the solution of the hyperbolic Klein-Gordon thermal equation are obtained and discussed. The analytical form of the solution - Green functions are calculated for one and three dimensional cases. It is shown that only in three dimensional case the undisturbed, with one value of the velocity, thermal wave can be generated by attosecond laser pulses. The conductivity for the space-time inside the atom is calculated and the value sigma_0=10^6 1/(Omega m) is obtained. Key words: Attosecond laser pulses; Klein-Gordon equation; Green functions.

id: quant-ph/0403099
title: Representation of SO(3) Group by a Maximally Entangled State
authors: W. LiMing, Z. L.Tang, C.J.Liao
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403099
abstract: A representation of the SO(3) group is mapped into a maximally entangled two qubit state according to literatures. To show the evolution of the entangled state, a model is set up on an maximally entangled electron pair, two electrons of which pass independently through a rotating magnetic field. It is found that the evolution path of the entangled state in the SO(3) sphere breaks an odd or even number of times, corresponding to the double connectedness of the SO(3) group. An odd number of breaks leads to an additional $\pi$ phase to the entangled state, but an even number of breaks does not. A scheme to trace the evolution of the entangled state is proposed by means of entangled photon pairs and Kerr medium, allowing observation of the additional $\pi$ phase.

id: quant-ph/0403100
title: Coherent quantum control of $¦«$-atoms through the stochastic limit
authors: L. Accardi, S.V. Kozyrev, A.N. Pechen
comments: RevTex, 7 pages
journal: QP-PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Vol. 19, Eds. L. Accardi, M. Ohya & N. Watanabe (2006) 1--17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403100
abstract: We investigate, using the stochastic limit method, the coherent quantum control of a 3-level atom in $\Lambda$-configuration interacting with two laser fields. We prove that, in the generic situation, this interaction entangles the two lower energy levels of the atom into a single qubit, i.e. it drives at an exponentially fast rate the atom to a stationary state which is a coherent superposition of the two lower levels. By applying to the atom two laser fields with appropriately chosen intensities, one can create, in principle, any superposition of the two levels. Thus {\it relaxation} is not necessarily synonymous of {\it decoherence}.

id: quant-ph/0403101
title: Distinguishing quantum measurements of observables in terms of state transformers
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 13 pages, Latex2e. Written for the Am. J. Phys.; after three resubmissions, when both referees were satisfied,it was rejected. It is put on the web to do justice to the great efforts of the referees and the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403101
abstract: The modern framework of state transformers, i. e., the first Kraus representation of quantum measurement, is introduced and related both to the known textbook concepts and to measurement-interaction evolution (the second Kraus representation). In this framework the known kinds of measurements of ordinary (as distinct from generalized) observables are distinguished by necessary and sufficient conditions. Thus, repeatable,nonrepeatable, and ideal measurements are characterized both algebraically and geometrically in terms of polar factors of state transformers.

id: quant-ph/0403102
title: Analysis of Quantum Light Memory in Atomic Systems
authors: H. Kaatuzian, A. Rostami, A. A. Oskouei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403102
abstract: We extend the theory to describe the quantum light memory in type atoms with considering (lower levels coherency decay rate) and detuning for the probe and the control fields. We obtain that with considering these parameters, group velocity of the probe pulse does not tend to zero by turning off the control field. We show that there are considerable decay for the probe pulse and the stored information. Also, it is inferred that the light field does not tend to zero when the control field is turned off. In addition, we obtain that in the off-resonance case there is considerable distortion of the output light pulse (with fast oscillations) that destroys the stored information. Then we present the limitations on detuning (bandwidths) of the probe and the control fields to achieve negligible distortion. We finally present the numerical calculations and compare them with obtained analytical results.

id: quant-ph/0403103
title: Upper bounds on success probabilities in linear optics
authors: Stefan Scheel, Norbert Luetkenhaus
comments: 8 pages, typeset using RevTex4, 5 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403103
abstract: We develop an abstract way of defining linear-optics networks designed to perform quantum information tasks such as quantum gates. We will be mainly concerned with the nonlinear sign shift gate, but it will become obvious that all other gates can be treated in a similar manner. The abstract scheme is extremely well suited for analytical as well as numerical investigations since it reduces the number of parameters for a general setting. With that we show numerically and partially analytically for a wide class of states that the success probability of generating a nonlinear sign shift gate does not exceed 1/4 which to our knowledge is the strongest bound to date.

id: quant-ph/0403104
title: Single-photon interference over 150-km transmission using silica-based integrated-optic interferometers for quantum cryptography
authors: Tadamasa Kimura, Yoshihiro Nambu, Takaaki Hatanaka, Akihisa Tomita, Hideo Kosaka, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Electronics Letters
journal: Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Vol.43 (2004) No.9AB pp.L1217 - L1219
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403104
abstract: We have demonstrated single-photon interference over 150 km using time-division interferometers for quantum cryptography, which were composed of two integrated-optic asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometers, and balanced gated-mode photon detectors. The observed fringe visibility was more than 80% after 150-km transmission.

id: quant-ph/0403105
title: A note on continuous ensemble expansions of quantum states
authors: Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: LaTeX 2e, 3 PS figures, 4 pages + 3 pages appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403105
abstract: Generalizing the notion of relative entropy, the difference between a priori and a posteriori relative entropy for quantum systems is drawn. The former, known as quantum relative entropy, is associated with quantum states recognition. The latter -- a posteriori relative quantum entropy is shown to be related with state reconstruction due to the following property: given a density operator $\rho$, ensembles of pure states with Gibbs distribution with respect to the defined distance are proved to represent the initial state $\rho$ up to an amount of white noise (completely mixed state) which can be made arbitrary small.

id: quant-ph/0403106
title: Spectral properties of the squeeze operator
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 327 (2004) 290-295
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403106
abstract: We show that a single-mode squeeze operator S(z) being an unitary operator with a purely continuous spectrum gives rise to a family of discrete real generalized eigenvalues. These eigenvalues are closely related to the spectral properties of S(z) and the corresponding generalized eigenvectors may be interpreted as resonant states well known in the scattering theory. It turns out that these states entirely characterize the action of S(z). This result is then generalized to N-mode squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0403107
title: Quantum Walks and Reversible Cellular Automata
authors: Norio Konno, Kenichi Mitsuda, Takahiro Soshi, Hyun Jae Yoo
comments: 15 pages, minor corrections, some references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403107
abstract: We investigate a connection between a property of the distribution and a conserved quantity for the reversible cellular automaton derived from a discrete-time quantum walk in one dimension. As a corollary, we give a detailed information of the quantum walk.

id: quant-ph/0403108
title: Position and momentum observables on R and on R^3
authors: C. Carmeli, T. Heinonen, A. Toigo
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45 (2004) 2526-2539.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403108
abstract: We characterize all position and momentum observables on R and on R^3. We study some of their operational properties and discuss their covariant joint observables.

id: quant-ph/0403109
title: On the Power of Quantum Algorithms for Vector Valued Mean Computation
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: Paper submitted to 'Monte Carlo Methods and Applications', 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403109
abstract: We study computation of the mean of sequences with values in finite dimensional normed spaces and compare the computational power of classical randomized with that of quantum algorithms for this problem. It turns out that in contrast to the known superiority of quantum algorithms in the scalar case, in high dimensional $L_p^M$ spaces classical randomized algorithms are essentially as powerful as quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0403110
title: Measurable nonlocal effect of bipartite system during a local cyclic evolution of its subsystem
authors: Li-Bin Fu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 75(1), 1-7(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403110
abstract: In this letter, a nonlocal effect for a bipartite system which is induced by a local cyclic evolution of one of its subsystem is suggested. This effect vanishes when the system is at a disentangled pure state but can be observed for some disentangled mixed states. As a paradigm, we study the effect for the system of two qubits in detail. It is interesting that the effect is directly related to the degree of entanglement for pure state of qubit pairs. Furthermore, we suggest a Bell-type experiment to measure this nonlocal effect for qubit pairs.

id: quant-ph/0403111
title: A Quantum Many-Body Instability in the Thermodynamic Limit
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Final version accepted for publication in Modern Physics Letters B
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. B20 (2006) 1059-1066
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403111
abstract: Intrinsic decoherence in the thermodynamic limit is shown for a large class of many-body quantum systems in the unitary evolution in NMR and cavity QED. The effect largely depends on the inability of the system to recover the phases. Gaussian decaying in time of the fidelity is proved for spin systems and radiation-matter interaction.

id: quant-ph/0403112
title: Quantum cryptography with correlated twin laser beams
authors: Constantin V. Usenko, Vladyslav C. Usenko
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403112
abstract: The data transmission protocol, based on the use of a strongly correlated pair of laser beams, is proposed. The properties of the corresponding states are described in detail. The protocol is based on the strong correlation of photon numbers in both beams in each measurement. The protocol stability against the interception attempts is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0403113
title: Counterintuitive transitions in the multistate Landau-Zener problem with linear level crossings
authors: N. A. Sinitsyn
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 No 44 (5 November 2004) 10691-10697
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403113
abstract: We generalize the Brundobler-Elser hypothesis in the multistate Landau-Zener problem to the case when instead of a state with the highest slope of the diabatic energy level there is a band of states with an arbitrary number of parallel levels having the same slope. We argue that the probabilities of counterintuitive transitions among such states are exactly zero.

id: quant-ph/0403114
title: Graph-based simulation of quantum computation in the density matrix representation
authors: George F. Viamontes, Igor L. Markov, John P. Hayes
comments: In Proc. of Quantum Computation and Information, SPIE Defense and Security Symposium 2004, April 2004. 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 113-130 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403114
abstract: Quantum-mechanical phenomena are playing an increasing role in information processing, as transistor sizes approach the nanometer level, and quantum circuits and data encoding methods appear in the securest forms of communication. Simulating such phenomena efficiently is exceedingly difficult because of the vast size of the quantum state space involved. A major complication is caused by errors (noise) due to unwanted interactions between the quantum states and the environment. Consequently, simulating quantum circuits and their associated errors using the density matrix representation is potentially significant in many applications, but is well beyond the computational abilities of most classical simulation techniques in both time and memory resources. The size of a density matrix grows exponentially with the number of qubits simulated, rendering array-based simulation techniques that explicitly store the density matrix intractable. In this work, we propose a new technique aimed at efficiently simulating quantum circuits that are subject to errors. In particular, we describe new graph-based algorithms implemented in the simulator QuIDDPro/D. While previously reported graph-based simulators operate in terms of the state-vector representation, these new algorithms use the density matrix representation. To gauge the improvements offered by QuIDDPro/D, we compare its simulation performance with an optimized array-based simulator called QCSim. Empirical results, generated by both simulators on a set of quantum circuit benchmarks involving error correction, reversible logic, communication, and quantum search, show that the graph-based approach far outperforms the array-based approach.

id: quant-ph/0403115
title: A practical limitation for continuous-variable quantum cryptography using coherent states
authors: Ryo Namiki, Takuya Hirano
comments: RevTeX4, 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403115
abstract: In this letter, first, we investigate the security of a continuous-variable quantum cryptographic scheme with a postselection process against individual beam splitting attack. It is shown that the scheme can be secure in the presence of the transmission loss owing to the postselection. Second, we provide a loss limit for continuous-variable quantum cryptography using coherent states taking into account excess Gaussian noise on quadrature distribution. Since the excess noise is reduced by the loss mechanism, a realistic intercept-resend attack which makes a Gaussian mixture of coherent states gives a loss limit in the presence of any excess Gaussian noise.

id: quant-ph/0403116
title: Two-photon nonlinearity in general cavity QED systems
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Hajime Ishihara
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403116
abstract: We have investigated the two-photon nonlinearity at general cavity QED systems, which covers both weak and strong coupling regimes and includes radiative loss from the atom. The one- and two-photon propagators are obtained in analytic forms. By surveying both coupling regimes, we have revealed the conditions on the photonic wavepacket for yielding large nonlinearity depending on the cavity Q-value. We have also discussed the effect of radiative loss on the nonlinearity.

id: quant-ph/0403117
title: Genuine quantum trajectories for non-Markovian processes
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012106 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403117
abstract: A large class of non-Markovian quantum processes in open systems can be formulated through time-local master equations which are not in Lindblad form. It is shown that such processes can be embedded in a Markovian dynamics which involves a time dependent Lindblad generator on an extended state space. If the state space of the open system is given by some Hilbert space ${\mathcal{H}}$, the extended state space is the triple Hilbert space ${\mathcal{H}}\otimes{\mathbb C}^3$ which is obtained by combining the open system with a three state system. This embedding is used to derive an unraveling for non-Markovian time evolution by means of a stochastic process in the extended state space. The process is defined through a stochastic Schr\"odinger equation which generates genuine quantum trajectories for the state vector conditioned on a continuous monitoring of an environment. The construction leads to a continuous measurement interpretation for non-Markovian dynamics within the framework of the theory of quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0403118
title: Experimental Purification of Single Qubits
authors: M. Ricci, F. De Martini, N.J. Cerf, R. Filip, J. Fiurasek, C. Macchiavello
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403118
abstract: We report the experimental realization of the purification protocol for single qubits sent through a depolarization channel. The qubits are associated with polarization encoded photon particles and the protocol is achieved by means of passive linear optical elements. The present approach may represent a convenient alternative to the distillation and error correction protocols of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0403119
title: Entangled states of light
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, notes of my talk at the Workshop on ``Quantum Coding and Quantum Computing'' held at the University of Virginia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403119
abstract: These notes are more or less a faithful representation of my talk at the Workshop on ``Quantum Coding and Quantum Computing'' held at the University of Virginia. As such it is an introduction for non-physicists to the topics of the quantum theory of light and entangled states of light. In particular, I discuss the photon concept and what is really entangled in an entangled state of light (it is not the photons). Moreover, I discuss an example that highlights the peculiar behavior of entanglement in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0403120
title: Quantum walks and their algorithmic applications
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, short survey on applications of quantum walks, v2: added a reference
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 1:507-518, 2003.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403120
abstract: Quantum walks are quantum counterparts of Markov chains. In this article, we give a brief overview of quantum walks, with emphasis on their algorithmic applications.

id: quant-ph/0403121
title: Cavity QED "By The Numbers"
authors: J. McKeever, J. R. Buck, A. D. Boozer, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403121
abstract: The number of atoms trapped within the mode of an optical cavity is determined in real time by monitoring the transmission of a weak probe beam. Continuous observation of atom number is accomplished in the strong coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics and functions in concert with a cooling scheme for radial atomic motion. The probe transmission exhibits sudden steps from one plateau to the next in response to the time evolution of the intracavity atom number, from N >= 3 to N = 2 to 1 to 0, with some trapping events lasting over 1 second.

id: quant-ph/0403122
title: Effect of electron-nuclear spin interactions on electron-spin qubits localized in self-assembled quantum dots
authors: Seungwon Lee, Paul von Allmen, Fabiano Oyafuso, Gerhard Klimeck, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403122
abstract: The effect of electron-nuclear spin interactions on qubit operations is investigated for a qubit represented by the spin of an electron localized in a self-assembled quantum dot. The localized electron wave function is evaluated within the atomistic tight-binding model. The magnetic field generated by the nuclear spins is estimated in the presence of an inhomogeneous environment characterized by a random nuclear spin configuration, by the dot-size distribution, by alloy disorder, and by interface disorder. Due to these inhomogeneities, the magnitude of the nuclear magnetic field varies from one qubit to another by the order of 100 G, 100 G, 10 G, and 0.1 G, respectively. The fluctuation of the magnetic field causes errors in exchange operations due to the inequality of the Zeeman splitting between two qubits. We show that the errors can be made lower than the quantum error threshold if an exchange energy larger than 0.1 meV is used for the operation.

id: quant-ph/0403123
title: General expression for the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects
authors: J. Ruseckas, B. Kaulakys
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403123
abstract: In this paper we investigate the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects without using any particular model of the measurement. Making a few assumptions about the measurement process we derive an expression for the jump probability during the measurement. From this expression the equation, obtained by Kofman and Kurizki [Nature (London) 405, 546 (2000)] can be derived as a special case.

id: quant-ph/0403124
title: Distinguishing mixed quantum states: Minimum-error discrimination versus optimum unambiguous discrimination
authors: Ulrike Herzog, Janos A. Bergou
comments: Replaced by final version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A. Revtex4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403124
abstract: We consider two different optimized measurement strategies for the discrimination of nonorthogonal quantum states. The first is conclusive discrimination with a minimum probability of inferring an erroneous result, and the second is unambiguous, i. e. error-free, discrimination with a minimum probability of getting an inconclusive outcome, where the measurement fails to give a definite answer. For distinguishing between two mixed quantum states, we investigate the relation between the minimum error probability achievable in conclusive discrimination, and the minimum failure probability that can be reached in unambiguous discrimination of the same two states. The latter turns out to be at least twice as large as the former for any two given states. As an example, we treat the case that the state of the quantum system is known to be, with arbitrary prior probability, either a given pure state, or a uniform statistical mixture of any number of mutually orthogonal states. For this case we derive an analytical result for the minimum probability of error and perform a quantitative comparison to the minimum failure probability.

id: quant-ph/0403125
title: Push button generation of multiphoton entanglement
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, proceedings for the conference ``Quantum Information and Computation II'' in Orlando, April 2004
journal: Proc. SPIE 5436, 118 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403125
abstract: Photon entanglement is an essential ingredient for linear optics quantum computing schemes, quantum cryptographic protocols and fundamental tests of quantum mechanics. Here we describe a setup that allows for the generation of polarisation-entangled N-photon states on demand. The photons are obtained by mapping the entangled state of N atoms, each of them trapped inside an optical cavity, onto the free radiation field. The required initial state can be prepared by performing postselective measurements on the collective emission from the cavities through a multiport beamsplitter.

id: quant-ph/0403126
title: Dynamical entanglement-transfer for quantum information networks
authors: M. Paternostro, W. Son, M. S. Kim, G. Falci, G. M. Palma
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022320 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403126
abstract: A key element in the architecture of a quantum information processing network is a reliable physical interface between fields and qubits. We study a process of entanglement transfer engineering, where two remote qubits respectively interact with entangled two-mode continuous variable (CV) field. We quantify the entanglement induced in the qubit state at the expenses of the loss of entanglement in the CV system. We discuss the range of mixed entangled states which can be obtained with this set-up. Furthermore, we suggest a protocol to determine the residual entangling power of the light fields, inferring, thus, the entanglement left in the field modes which, after the interaction, are no longer in a Gaussian state. Two different set-ups are proposed: a cavity-QED system and an interface between superconducting qubits and field modes. We address in details the practical difficulties inherent in these two proposals, showing that the latter is promising under many aspects.

id: quant-ph/0403127
title: Quantum Algorithms and Covering Spaces
authors: Tobias J. Osborne, Simone Severini
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, uses psfrag. Added reference. Fixed reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403127
abstract: In this paper we isolate the combinatorial property responsible (at least in part) for the computational speedups recently observed in some quantum walk algorithms. We find that continuous-time quantum walks can exploit the covering space property of certain graphs. We demonstrate that a quantum walk on a graph Y which covers a smaller graph X can be equivalent to a quantum walk on the smaller graph X. This equivalence occurs only when the walk begins on certain initial states, fibre-constant states, which respect the graph covering space structure. We illustrate these observations with walks on Cayley graphs; we show that walks on fibre-constant initial states for Cayley graphs are equivalent to walks on the induced Schreier graph. We also consider the problem of constructing efficient gate sequences simulating the time evolution of a continuous-time quantum walk. For the case of the walk on the m-torus graph T^m on 2^n vertices we construct a gate sequence which uses O(\poly(n)) gates which is independent of the time t the walk is simulated for (and so the sequence can simulate the walk for exponential times). We argue that there exists a wide class of nontrivial operators based on quantum walks on graphs which can be measured efficiently. We introduce a new general class of computational problems, HiddenCover, which includes a variant of the general hidden subgroup problem as a subclass. We argue that quantum computers ought to be able to utilise covering space structures to efficiently solve HiddenCover problems.

id: quant-ph/0403128
title: Casimir-Polder forces: A non-perturbative approach
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, additional misprints corrected
journal: Physical Review A 70 (5), 052117 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403128
abstract: Within the frame of macroscopic QED in linear, causal media, we study the radiation force of Casimir-Polder type acting on an atom which is positioned near dispersing and absorbing magnetodielectric bodies and initially prepared in an arbitrary electronic state. It is shown that minimal and multipolar coupling lead to essentially the same lowest-order perturbative result for the force acting on an atom in an energy eigenstate. To go beyond perturbation theory, the calculations are based on the exact center-of-mass equation of motion. For a nondriven atom in the weak-coupling regime, the force as a function of time is a superposition of force components that are related to the electronic density-matrix elements at a chosen time. Even the force component associated with the ground state is not derivable from a potential in the ususal way, because of the position dependence of the atomic polarizability. Further, when the atom is initially prepared in a coherent superposition of energy eigenstates, then temporally oscillating force components are observed, which are due to the interaction of the atom with both electric and magnetic fields.

id: quant-ph/0403129
title: Two exactly-solvable problems in one-dimensional hyperbolic Space
authors: C.Burdik, G.S.Pogosyan
comments: 6 pages Tex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403129
abstract: In this paper we establish a relation between two exactly-solvable problems on one-dimensional hyperbolics space, namely singular Coulomb and singular oscillator systems.

id: quant-ph/0403130
title: Towards a time-reversal mirror for quantum systems
authors: Horacio M. Pastawski, Ernesto P. Danieli, Hernan L. Calvo, Luis E. F. Foa Torres
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Introduction modified, references added, one figure added to improve the discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403130
abstract: The reversion of the time evolution of a quantum state can be achieved by changing the sign of the Hamiltonian as in the polarization echo experiment in NMR. In this work we describe an alternative mechanism inspired by the acoustic time reversal mirror. By solving the inverse time problem in a discrete space we develop a new procedure, the perfect inverse filter. It achieves the exact time reversion in a given region by reinjecting a prescribed wave function at its periphery.

id: quant-ph/0403131
title: Unconditional security of coherent-state quantum key distribution with strong phase-reference pulse
authors: Masato Koashi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403131
abstract: We prove the unconditional security of a quantum key distribution protocol in which bit values are encoded in the phase of a weak coherent-state pulse relative to a strong reference pulse. In contrast to implementations in which a weak pulse is used as a substitute for a single-photon source, the achievable key rate is found to decrease only linearly with the transmission of the channel.

id: quant-ph/0403132
title: The evolution of atomic matter waves inside an atom fiber
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 3 pages, Latex. Submitted to PRA for publication as a brief report
journal: Phys. Lett. A Vol.328, 326-329 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403132
abstract: A phenomenological description of time evolution of atomic matter waves inside a spiral shaped atomic-wave guide is presented in this report. We study three related topics: (i) the effective Hamiltonian and the time-development equation governing the matter waves; (ii) wavefunctions describing the matter waves in the noncoplanar atom guide; (iii) showing that such wavefunctions obtained is just the eigenstates of the atomic momentum operator. It is believed that both the idea and the results presented here may have relevance to some fundamental problems of atom optics.

id: quant-ph/0403133
title: Universally composable privacy amplification against quantum adversaries
authors: Renato Renner, Robert Koenig
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX; references and detailed discussion of optimality added
journal: Proc. of TCC 2005, LNCS, Springer, vol. 3378 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403133
abstract: Privacy amplification is the art of shrinking a partially secret string Z to a highly secret key S. We show that, even if an adversary holds quantum information about the initial string Z, the key S obtained by two-universal hashing is secure, according to a universally composable security definition. Additionally, we give an asymptotically optimal lower bound on the length of the extractable key S in terms of the adversary's (quantum) knowledge about Z. Our result has applications in quantum cryptography. In particular, it implies that many of the known quantum key distribution protocols are universally composable.

id: quant-ph/0403134
title: Locally Accessible Information and Distillation of Entanglement
authors: Sibasish Ghosh, Pramod Joag, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Anirban Roy
comments: 5 pages revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403134
abstract: A new type of complementary relation is found between locally accessible information and final average entanglement for given ensemble. It is also shown that in some well known distillation protocol, this complementary relation is optimally satisfied. We discuss the interesting trade-off between locally accessible information and distillable entanglement for some states.

id: quant-ph/0403135
title: Entanglement at the boundary of spin chains near a quantum critical point and in systems with boundary critical points
authors: T. Stauber, F. Guinea
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022313 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403135
abstract: We analyze the entanglement properties of spins (qubits) attached to the boundary of spin chains near quantum critical points, or to dissipative environments, near a boundary critical point, such as Kondo-like systems or the dissipative two level system. In the first case, we show that the properties of the entanglement are significantly different from those for bulk spins. The influence of the proximity to a transition is less marked at the boundary. In the second case, our results indicate that the entanglement changes abruptly at the point where coherent quantum oscillations cease to exist. The phase transition modifies significantly less the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0403136
title: A Bloch-Sphere-Type Model for Two Qubits in the Geometric Algebra of a 6-D Euclidean Vector Space
authors: Timothy F. Havel, Chris J. L. Doran
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, in press (Proceedings of SPIE Conference on Defense & Security)
journal: Proc. SPIE, vol. 5436 (Quantum Information and Computation II, E Donkor, A. R. Pirich & H. E. Brandt, eds.), pp. 93-106 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403136
abstract: Geometric algebra is a mathematical structure that is inherent in any metric vector space, and defined by the requirement that the metric tensor is given by the scalar part of the product of vectors. It provides a natural framework in which to represent the classical groups as subgroups of rotation groups, and similarly their Lie algebras. In this article we show how the geometric algebra of a six-dimensional real Euclidean vector space naturally allows one to construct the special unitary group on a two-qubit (quantum bit) Hilbert space, in a fashion similar to that used in the well-established Bloch sphere model for a single qubit. This is then used to illustrate the Cartan decompositions and subalgebras of the four-dimensional special unitary group, which have recently been used by J. Zhang, J. Vala, S. Sastry and K. B. Whaley [Phys. Rev. A 67, 042313, 2003] to study the entangling capabilities of two-qubit unitaries.

id: quant-ph/0403137
title: Defending Continuous Variable Teleportation: Why a laser is a clock, not a quantum channel
authors: Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 22 pages, to be published in a special issue of J. Opt. B. This is an extended version of quant-ph/0303116 (the SPIE conference paper)
journal: Journal of Optics B, S849-S859, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403137
abstract: It has been argued [T. Rudolph and B.C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 077903 (2001)] that continuous-variable quantum teleportation at optical frequencies has not been achieved because the source used (a laser) was not `truly coherent'. Van Enk, and Fuchs [Phys. Rev. Lett, {\bf 88}, 027902 (2002)], while arguing against Rudolph and Sanders, also accept that an `absolute phase' is achievable, even if it has not been achieved yet. I will argue to the contrary that `true coherence' or `absolute phase' is always illusory, as the concept of absolute time (at least for frequencies beyond direct human experience) is meaningless. All we can ever do is to use an agreed time standard. In this context, a laser beam is fundamentally as good a `clock' as any other. I explain in detail why this claim is true, and defend my argument against various objections. In the process I discuss super-selection rules, quantum channels, and the ultimate limits to the performance of a laser as a clock. For this last topic I use some earlier work by myself [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 60}, 4083 (1999)] and Berry and myself [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 043803 (2002)] to show that a Heisenberg-limited laser with a mean photon number $\mu$ can synchronize $M$ independent clocks each with a mean-square error of $\sqrt{M}/4\mu$ radians$^2$.

id: quant-ph/0403138
title: Phase diagram for the Grover algorithm with static imperfections
authors: A.A.Pomeransky, O.V.Zhirov, D.L.Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figs, research at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 31, 131-135 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403138
abstract: We study effects of static inter-qubit interactions on the stability of the Grover quantum search algorithm. Our numerical and analytical results show existence of regular and chaotic phases depending on the imperfection strength $\epsilon$. The critical border $\epsilon_c$ between two phases drops polynomially with the number of qubits $n_q$ as $\epsilon_c \sim n_q^{-3/2}$. In the regular phase $(\epsilon < \epsilon_c)$ the algorithm remains robust against imperfections showing the efficiency gain $\epsilon_c / \epsilon$ for $\epsilon \gtrsim 2^{-n_q/2}$. In the chaotic phase $(\epsilon > \epsilon_c)$ the algorithm is completely destroyed.

id: quant-ph/0403139
title: The effect of parallel static and microwave electric fields on excited hydrogen atoms
authors: D. Richards
comments: 47 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403139
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments we analyse the classical dynamics of a hydrogen atom in parallel static and microwave electric fields. Using an appropriate representation and averaging approximations we show that resonant ionisation is controlled by a separatrix, and provide necessary conditions for a dynamical resonance to affect the ionisation probability. The position of the dynamical resonance is computed using a high-order perturbation series, and estimate its radius of convergence. We show that the position of the dynamical resonance does not coincide precisely with the ionisation maxima, and that the field switch-on time can dramatically affect the ionisation signal which, for long switch times, reflects the shape of an incipient homoclinic. Similarly, the resonance ionisation time can reflect the time-scale of the separatrix motion, which is therefore longer than conventional static field Stark ionisation. We explain why these effects should be observed in the quantum dynamics. PACs: 32.80.Rm, 33.40.+f, 34.10.+x, 05.45.Ac, 05.45.Mt

id: quant-ph/0403140
title: Improved Lower Bounds for Locally Decodable Codes and Private Information Retrieval
authors: Stephanie Wehner, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 12 pages LaTeX, To appear in ICALP '05
journal: Proc. of 32nd ICALP, 2005, LNCS 3580, pages 1424-1436.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403140
abstract: We prove new lower bounds for locally decodable codes and private information retrieval. We show that a 2-query LDC encoding n-bit strings over an l-bit alphabet, where the decoder only uses b bits of each queried position of the codeword, needs code length m = exp(Omega(n/(2^b Sum_{i=0}^b {l choose i}))) Similarly, a 2-server PIR scheme with an n-bit database and t-bit queries, where the user only needs b bits from each of the two l-bit answers, unknown to the servers, satisfies t = Omega(n/(2^b Sum_{i=0}^b {l choose i})). This implies that several known PIR schemes are close to optimal. Our results generalize those of Goldreich et al. who proved roughly the same bounds for linear LDCs and PIRs. Like earlier work by Kerenidis and de Wolf, our classical lower bounds are proved using quantum computational techniques. In particular, we give a tight analysis of how well a 2-input function can be computed from a quantum superposition of both inputs.

id: quant-ph/0403141
title: Note on the Khaneja Glaser Decomposition
authors: Stephen S Bullock
comments: 3 pages, no figures, submitted to QIC; v2 more motivation, detail, references
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 4, no. 5, 396-400 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403141
abstract: Recently, Vatan and Williams utilize a matrix decomposition of SU(2^n) introduced by Khaneja and Glaser to produce CNOT-efficient circuits for arbitrary three-qubit unitary evolutions. In this note, we place the Khaneja Glaser Decomposition (KGD) in context as a SU(2^n)=KAK decomposition by proving that its Cartan involution is type AIII, given n is greater than 2. The standard type AIII involution produces the Cosine-Sine Decomposition (CSD), a well-known decomposition in numerical linear algebra which may be computed using mature, stable algorithms. In the course of our proof that the KGD is type AIII, we further establish the following. Khaneja and Glaser allow for a particular degree of freedom, namely the choice of a commutative algebra a, in their construction. Let SWAP denote a swap between qubits 1 and n. Then for appropriate choice of a, the KGD by (SWAP v SWAP)=k1 a k2 may be recovered from a CSD by v = (SWAP k1 SWAP) (SWAP a SWAP) (SWAP k2 SWAP).

id: quant-ph/0403142
title: Effect of hydrogen-switchable mirrors on the Casimir force
authors: Davide Iannuzzi, Mariangela Lisanti, Federico Capasso
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Proc. Nat. Ac. Sci. USA 101 (2004) 4019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403142
abstract: We present systematic measurements of the Casimir force between a gold-coated plate and a sphere coated with a Hydrogen Switchable Mirror (HSM). HSMs are shiny metals that can become transparent by hydrogenation. In spite of such a dramatic change of the optical properties of the sphere, we did not observe any significant decrease of the Casimir force after filling the experimental apparatus with hydrogen. This counterintuitive result can be explained by the Lifshitz theory that describes the Casimir attraction between metallic and dielectric materials.

id: quant-ph/0403143
title: Refocusing schemes for holonomic quantum computation in presence of dissipation
authors: Li-Xiang Cen, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403143
abstract: The effects of dissipation on a holonomic quantum computation scheme are analyzed within the quantum-jump approach. We extend to the non-Abelian case the refocusing strategies formerly introduced for (Abelian) geometric computation. We show how double loop symmetrization schemes allow one to get rid of the unwanted influence of dissipation in the no-jump trajectory.

id: quant-ph/0403144
title: Quantum key distribution over 30km of standard fiber using energy-time entangled photon pairs: a comparison of two chromatic dispersion reduction methods
authors: Sylvain Fasel, Nicolas Gisin, Gr¨¦goire Ribordy, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 30, 143-148 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403144
abstract: We present a full implementation of a quantum key distribution system using energy-time entangled photon pairs and functioning with a 30km standard telecom fiber quantum channel. Two bases of two orthogonal states are implemented and the setup is quite robust to environmental constraints such as temperature variation. Two different ways to manage chromatic dispersion in the quantum channel are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403145
title: Derivation of the wave equation
authors: Benjamin Titov
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403145
abstract: We shall formulate the postulates, from which the wave equation can be obtained. In the end it will be understandable, that it is the most natural law describing the motion of a system. The postulates themselves are simple and apparent: the first and the fifth postulate set the definition of the coordinate and the definition of its evolution. The second and the fourth postulate define the momentum and define its evolution. The third postulate sets the superposition principle. On the basis of these statements it is possible to obtain the wave equation.

id: quant-ph/0403146
title: Distributed quantum computing: A distributed Shor algorithm
authors: Anocha Yimsiriwattana, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures, extra figures are removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403146
abstract: We present a distributed implementation of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm on a distributed quantum network model. This model provides a means for small capacity quantum computers to work together in such a way as to simulate a large capacity quantum computer. In this paper, entanglement is used as a resource for implementing non-local operations between two or more quantum computers. These non-local operations are used to implement a distributed factoring circuit with polynomially many gates. This distributed version of Shor's algorithm requires an additional overhead of O((log N)^2) communication complexity, where N denotes the integer to be factored.

id: quant-ph/0403147
title: Unambiguous discrimination between quantum mixed states
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403147
abstract: We prove that the states secretly chosen from a mixed state set can be perfectly discriminated if and only if these states are orthogonal. The sufficient and necessary condition when nonorthogonal quantum mixed states can be unambiguously discriminated is also presented. Furthermore, we derive a series of lower bounds on the inconclusive probability of unambiguous discrimination of states from a mixed state set with \textit{a prior} probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0403148
title: Robustness of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol against general coherent attacks
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, Gernot Alber
comments: New improved version. A minor mistake has been eliminated
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37, 441 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403148
abstract: It is demonstrated that for the entanglement-based version of the Bennett-Brassard (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol, Alice and Bob share provable entanglement if and only if the estimated qubit error rate is below 25% or above 75%. In view of the intimate relation between entanglement and security, this result sheds also new light on the unconditional security of the BB84 protocol in its original prepare-and-measure form. In particular, it indicates that for small qubit error rates 25% is the ultimate upper security bound for any prepare-and-measure BB84-type QKD protocol. On the contrary, for qubit error rates between 25% and 75% we demonstrate that the correlations shared between Alice and Bob can always be explained by separable states and thus, no secret key can be distilled in this regime.

id: quant-ph/0403149
title: Quantum statistics and locality
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A337 (2005) 17-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403149
abstract: It is shown that two observers have mutually commuting observables if they are able to prepare in each subsector of their common state space some state exhibiting no mutual correlations. This result establishes a heretofore missing link between statistical and locality (commensurability) properties of the observables of spacelike separated observers in relativistic quantum physics, envisaged four decades ago by Haag and Kastler. It is based on a discussion of coincidence experiments and suggests a physically meaningful quantitative measure of possible violations of Einstein causality.

id: quant-ph/0403150
title: Quantum State Detector Design: Optimal Worst-Case a posteriori Performance
authors: Robert L. Kosut, Ian Walmsley, Yonina Eldar, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403150
abstract: The problem addressed is to design a detector which is maximally sensitive to specific quantum states. Here we concentrate on quantum state detection using the worst-case a posteriori probability of detection as the design criterion. This objective is equivalent to asking the question: if the detector declares that a specific state is present, what is the probability of that state actually being present? We show that maximizing this worst-case probability (maximizing the smallest possible value of this probability) is a quasiconvex optimization over the matrices of the POVM (positive operator valued measure) which characterize the measurement apparatus. We also show that with a given POVM, the optimization is quasiconvex in the matrix which characterizes the Kraus operator sum representation (OSR) in a fixed basis. We use Lagrange Duality Theory to establish the optimality conditions for both deterministic and randomized detection. We also examine the special case of detecting a single pure state. Numerical aspects of using convex optimization for quantum state detection are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403151
title: Compatibility Relations between the Reduced and Global Density Matrixes
authors: Yong-Jian Han, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403151
abstract: It is a hard and important problem to find the criterion of the set of positive-definite matrixes which can be written as reduced density operators of a multi-partite quantum state. This problem is closely related to the study of many-body quantum entanglement which is one of the focuses of current quantum information theory. We give several results on the necessary compatibility relations between a set of reduced density matrixes, including: (i) compatibility conditions for the one-party reduced density matrixes of any $N_A\times N_B$ dimensional bi-partite mixed quantum state, (ii) compatibility conditions for the one-party and two-party reduced density matrixes of any $N_A\times N_B\times N_C$ dimensional tri-partite mixed quantum state, and (iii) compatibility conditions for the one-party reduced matrixes of any $M$-partite pure quantum state with the dimension $N^{\otimes M}$.

id: quant-ph/0403152
title: Quantum gates and decoherence
authors: Stefan Scheel, Jiannis Pachos, E.A. Hinds, Peter L. Knight
comments: 35 pages, 21 figures, submitted to Lect. Notes Phys., lectures given at the Winter School in Theoretical Physics, Schladming, Austria, March 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403152
abstract: In the lectures we will be concerned with some aspects of physical implementations of quantum gate operations which are necessary for quantum information processing. We will discuss two possible realizations. One of them is based on qubits being encoded in atomic degrees of freedom where the atoms are manipulated in optical lattices above atom chips. The other realization is based on photonic qubits and measurement-induced nonlinearities in linear optics. Both implementations have in common that their main decoherence mechanism is absorption in dielectric materials. The quantum theory of light in absorbing media and its implications to decoherence will form the last part of the lectures.

id: quant-ph/0403153
title: Localization of Multi-State Quantum Walk in One Dimension
authors: Norio Inui, Norio Konno
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 4 figures eps
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403153
abstract: We show analytically that particle trapping appears in a quantum process called "quantum walk", in which the particle moves macroscopically correlating to the inner states. It has been well known that a particle in the ``Hadamard walk" with two inner states spreads away quickly on a line. In contrast, we find one-dimensional quantum walk with multi-state in which a particle stays at the starting point entirely with high positive probability. This striking difference is explained from difference between degeneration of eigenvalues of the time-evolution matrices.

id: quant-ph/0403154
title: Examples of nonuniform limiting distributions for the quantum walk on even cycles
authors: Malgorzata Bednarska, Andrzej Grudka, Pawel Kurzynski, Tomasz Luczak, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403154
abstract: In the note we show how the choice of the initial states can influence the evolution of time-averaged probability distribution of the quantum walk on even cycles.

id: quant-ph/0403155
title: Controlled quantum teleportation and secure direct communication
authors: T Gao, F L Yan, Z X Wang
comments: 4 pages
journal: Chinese Physics, 14 (2005) 893.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403155
abstract: We present a controlled quantum teleportation protocol. In the protocol, quantum information of an unknown state of a 2-level particle is faithfully transmitted from a sender (Alice) to a remote receiver (Bob) via an initially shared triplet of entangled particles under the control of the supervisor Charlie. The distributed entangled particles shared by Alice, Bob and Charlie function as a quantum information channel for faithful transmission. We also propose a controlled and secure direct communication scheme by means of this teleportation. After insuring the security of the quantum channel, Alice encodes the secret message directly on a sequence of particle states and transmits them to Bob supervised by Charlie using this controlled quantum teleportation. Bob can read out the encoded message directly by the measurement on his qubit. In this scheme, the controlled quantum teleportation transmits Alice's message without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper. Because there is not a transmission of the qubit carrying the secret message between Alice and Bob in the public channel, it is completely secure for controlled and direct secret communication if perfect quantum channel is used. The feature of this scheme is that the communication between two sides depends on the agreement of the third side.

id: quant-ph/0403156
title: On the quantum potential
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: Latex, 31 pages, A few remarks and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403156
abstract: We survey various origins and expressions for the quantum potential with some new observations.

id: quant-ph/0403157
title: Entanglement generation in the Unruh effect
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 24 pages, plain-TeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403157
abstract: The master equation describing the completely positive time evolution of a uniformly accelerated two-level system in weak interaction with a scalar field in the Minkowski vacuum is derived and explicitly solved. It encodes the well known Unruh effect, leading to a purely thermal equilibrium state. This asymptotic state turns out to be entangled when the uniformly accelerating system is composed by two, independent two-level atoms.

id: quant-ph/0403158
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder energy between an excited and a ground-state atom
authors: L. Rizzuto, R. Passante, F. Persico
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403158
abstract: We consider the Casimir-Polder interaction between two atoms, one in the ground state and the other in its excited state. The interaction is time-dependent for this system, because of the dynamical self-dressing and the spontaneous decay of the excited atom. We calculate the dynamical Casimir-Polder potential between the two atoms using an effective Hamiltonian approach. The results obtained and their physical meaning are discussed and compared with previous results based on a time-independent approach which uses a non-normalizable dressed state for the excited atom.

id: quant-ph/0403159
title: Interaction-free quantum computation
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, LaTex2e
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 012318 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403159
abstract: In this paper, we study the quantum computation realized by an interaction-free measurement (IFM). Using Kwiat et al.'s interferometer, we construct a two-qubit quantum gate that changes one particle's trajectory according to whether or not the other particle exists in the interferometer. We propose a method for distinguishing Bell-basis vectors, each of which consists of a pair of an electron and a positron, by this gate. (This is called the Bell-basis measurement.) This method succeeds with probability 1 in the limit of $N \to \infty$, where N is the number of beam splitters in the interferometer. Moreover, we can carry out a controlled-NOT gate operation by the above Bell-basis measurement and the method proposed by Gottesman and Chuang. Therefore, we can prepare a universal set of quantum gates by the IFM. This means that we can execute any quantum algorithm by the IFM.

id: quant-ph/0403160
title: Universal Quantum Gates For Tensors
authors: Tamir Boaz
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403160
abstract: A universal quantum gate is introduced for tensors of vector spaces. By using integer powers of such a gate and by using classical reversible gates one can approximate any element of the unitary group to any accuracy needed. The proof uses a version of Kronecker's theory and the structure of the Bloch sphere for tensors.

id: quant-ph/0403161
title: Decoherence-full subsystems and the cryptographic power of a private shared reference frame
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 13 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403161
abstract: We show that private shared reference frames can be used to perform private quantum and private classical communication over a public quantum channel. Such frames constitute a novel type of private shared correlation (distinct from private classical keys or shared entanglement) useful for cryptography. We present optimally efficient schemes for private quantum and classical communication given a finite number of qubits transmitted over an insecure channel and given a private shared Cartesian frame and/or a private shared reference ordering of the qubits. We show that in this context, it is useful to introduce the concept of a decoherence-full subsystem, wherein every state is mapped to the completely mixed state under the action of the decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0403162
title: Entropic localization in non-unitary Newtonian gravity
authors: Sergio De Filippo, Filippo Maimone
comments: 
journal: Entropy 6:153,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403162
abstract: The localizing properties and the entropy production of the Newtonian limit of a nonunitary version of fourth order gravity are analyzed. It is argued that pure highly unlocalized states of the center of mass motion of macroscopic bodies rapidly evolve into unlocalized ensembles of highly localized states. The localization time and the final entropy are estimated.

id: quant-ph/0403163
title: Entanglement changing power of two-qubit unitary operations
authors: M.-Y. Ye, Dong Sun, Y.-S. Zhang, G.-C. Guo
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403163
abstract: We consider a two-qubit unitary operation along with arbitrary local unitary operations acts on a two-qubit pure state, whose entanglement is C_0. We give the conditions that the final state can be maximally entangled and be non-entangled. When the final state can not be maximally entangled, we give the maximal entanglement C_max it can reach. When the final state can not be non-entangled, we give the minimal entanglement C_min it can reach. We think C_max and C_min represent the entanglement changing power of two-qubit unitary operations. According to this power we define an order of gates.

id: quant-ph/0403164
title: Quantum Branching Programs and Space-Bounded Nonuniform Quantum Complexity
authors: M. Sauerhoff, D. Sieling
comments: 45 pages, 3 Postscript figures. Proofs rearranged, typos corrected
journal: Theoretical Computer Science 334, pp. 177-225, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403164
abstract: In this paper, the space complexity of nonuniform quantum computations is investigated. The model chosen for this are quantum branching programs, which provide a graphic description of sequential quantum algorithms. In the first part of the paper, simulations between quantum branching programs and nonuniform quantum Turing machines are presented which allow to transfer lower and upper bound results between the two models. In the second part of the paper, different variants of quantum OBDDs are compared with their deterministic and randomized counterparts. In the third part, quantum branching programs are considered where the performed unitary operation may depend on the result of a previous measurement. For this model a simulation of randomized OBDDs and exponential lower bounds are presented.

id: quant-ph/0403165
title: Optimal probabilistic cloning and purification of quantum states
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032308 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403165
abstract: We investigate the probabilistic cloning and purification of quantum states. The performance of these probabilistic operations is quantified by the average fidelity between the ideal and actual output states. We provide a simple formula for the maximal achievable average fidelity and we explictly show how to construct a probabilistic operation that achieves this fidelity. We illustrate our method on several examples such as the phase covariant cloning of qubits, cloning of coherent states, and purification of qubits transmitted via depolarizing channel and amplitude damping channel. Our examples reveal that the probabilistic cloner may yield higher fidelity than the best deterministic cloner even when the states that should be cloned are linearly dependent and are drawn from a continuous set.

id: quant-ph/0403166
title: Thermal spin flips in atom chips
authors: Per-Kristian Rekdal, Stefan Scheel, Peter L. Knight, E.A. Hinds
comments: 9 pages, typeset using Revtex4, 5 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403166
abstract: We derive the spontaneous and thermal spin-flip rates for a neutral two-level ultra-cold atom that is coupled to a magnetic field. We apply this theory to an atom in the vicinity of a 2-layer cylindrical absorbing dielectric body surrounded by an unbounded homogeneous medium. An analytical expression is obtained for the spontaneous and thermal spin-flip rate in this particular geometry. The corresponding lifetime is then computed numerically. We compare these theoretical lifetimes to those measured by Jones et al. [M.P.A. Jones, C.J. Vale, D. Sahagun, B.V. Hall, and E.A. Hinds, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 91}, 080401 (2003)]. We investigate how the lifetime depends on the materials (skin depths) of the cylindrical body. We also show how scaling of the dimensions of the cylindrical body affects the lifetime when (i) the distance from the wire to the atom is fixed and (ii) when the distance from the wire to the atom is scaled.

id: quant-ph/0403167
title: Classical information deficit and monotonicity on local operations
authors: Barbara Synak, Michal Horodecki
comments: 6 pages, revtex
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 11465-11474
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403167
abstract: We investigate classical information deficit: a candidate for measure of classical correlations emerging from thermodynamical approach initiated in [Phys. Rev. Lett 89, 180402]. It is defined as a difference between amount of information that can be concentrated by use of LOCC and the information contained in subsystems. We show nonintuitive fact, that one way version of this quantity can increase under local operation, hence it does not possess property required for a good measure of classical correlations. Recently it was shown by Igor Devetak, that regularised version of this quantity is monotonic under LO. In this context, our result implies that regularization plays a role of "monotoniser".

id: quant-ph/0403168
title: Exact quantum query complexity for total Boolean functions
authors: Gatis Midrijanis
comments: 5 pages, corrected grammar, some comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403168
abstract: We will show that if there exists a quantum query algorithm that exactly computes some total Boolean function f by making T queries, then there is a classical deterministic algorithm A that exactly computes f making O(T^3) queries. The best know bound previously was O(T^4) due to Beals et al.

id: quant-ph/0403169
title: Dual entanglement measures based on no local cloning and no local deleting
authors: Michal Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403169
abstract: Impossibility of cloning and deleting of unknown states are important restrictions on processing of information in the quantum world. On the other hand, a known quantum state can always be cloned or deleted. However if we restrict the class of allowed operations, there will arise restrictions on the ability of cloning and deleting machines. We have shown that cloning and deleting of known states is in general not possible by local operations. This impossibility hints at quantum correlation in the state. We propose dual measures of quantum correlation based on the dual restrictions of no local cloning and no local deleting. The measures are relative entropy distances of the desired states in a (generally impossible) perfect local cloning or local deleting process from the best approximate state that is actually obtained by imperfect local cloning or deleting machines. Just like the dual measures of entanglement cost and distillable entanglement, the proposed measures are based on important processes in quantum information. We discuss their properties. For the case of pure states, estimations of these two measures are also provided. Interestingly, the entanglement of cloning for a maximally entangled state of two two-level systems is not unity.

id: quant-ph/0403170
title: When Catalysis is Useful for Probabilistic Entanglement Transformation
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 062310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403170
abstract: We determine all $2\times 2$ quantum states that can serve as useful catalysts for a given probabilistic entanglement transformation, in the sense that they can increase the maximal transformation probability. When higher-dimensional catalysts are considered, a sufficient and necessary condition is derived under which a certain probabilistic transformation has useful catalysts.

id: quant-ph/0403171
title: Quantum Memory Process with a Four-Level Atomic Ensemble
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Euro. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 40, 297-303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403171
abstract: We examine in detail the quantum memory technique for photons in a double $\Lambda$ atomic ensemble in this work. The novel application of the present technique to create two different quantum probe fields as well as entangled states of them is proposed. A larger zero-degeneracy class besides dark-state subspace is investigated and the adiabatic condition is confirmed in the present model. We extend the single-mode quantum memory technique to the case with multi-mode probe fields, and reveal the exact pulse matching phenomenon between two quantized pulses in the present system.

id: quant-ph/0403172
title: Secure quantum cryptographic network based on quantum key distribution
authors: Sora Choi, Soojoon Lee, Dong Pyo Chi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403172
abstract: We present a protocol for quantum cryptographic network consisting of a quantum network center and many users, in which any pair of parties with members chosen from the whole users on request can secure a quantum key distribution by help of the center. The protocol is based on the quantum authentication scheme given by Barnum et al. [Proc. 43rd IEEE Symp. FOCS'02, p. 449 (2002)]. We show that exploiting the quantum authentication scheme the center can safely make two parties share nearly perfect entangled states used in the quantum key distribution. This implies that the quantum cryptographic network protocol is secure against all kinds of eavesdropping.

id: quant-ph/0403173
title: Reduction of multipartite qubit density matrixes to bipartite qubit density matrixes and criteria of partial separability of multipartite qubit density matrixes
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403173
abstract: The partial separability of multipartite qubit density matrixes is strictly defined. We give a reduction way from N-partite qubit density matrixes to bipartite qubit density matrixes, and prove a necessary condition that a N-partite qubit density matrix to be partially separable is its reduced density matrix to satisfy PPT condition.

id: quant-ph/0403174
title: Quantum entanglement as information theoretic resource
authors: M. Dugic
comments: No title, more specific notions on the main result, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403174
abstract: We address the following criterion for quantifying the quantum information resources: classically simulable {\it vs.} classically non-simulable information processing. This approach gives rise to existence of a deeper level of quantum information processing--which we refer to as "quantum communication channel". We particularly show, that following the recipes of the standard theory of entanglement measures does not necessarily give rise to un-locking the quantum communication channel, which is naturally quantified by Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0403175
title: Generalizing Tsirelson's bound on Bell inequalities using a min-max principle
authors: Stefan Filipp, Karl Svozil
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 130407 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403175
abstract: Bounds on the norm of quantum operators associated with classical Bell-type inequalities can be derived from their maximal eigenvalues. This quantitative method enables detailed predictions of the maximal violations of Bell-type inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0403176
title: Qubit Channels Which Require Four Inputs to Achieve Capacity: Implications for Additivity Conjectures
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Hiroshi Imai, Keiji Matsumoto, Mary Beth Ruskai, Toshiyuki Shimono
comments: 19 pages, 15 figures. several typos corrected in v2
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 5, 13--31 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403176
abstract: An example is given of a qubit quantum channel which requires four inputs to maximize the Holevo capacity. The example is one of a family of channels which are related to 3-state channels. The capacity of the product channel is studied and numerical evidence presented which strongly suggests additivity. The numerical evidence also supports a conjecture about the concavity of output entropy as a function of entanglement parameters. However, an example is presented which shows that for some channels this conjecture does not hold for all input states. A numerical algorithm for finding the capacity and optimal inputs is presented and its relation to a relative entropy optimization discussed.

id: quant-ph/0403177
title: An Exact Solution to the Time-dependent Schrodinger Equation for a Model One-dimensional Potential
authors: Athanasios N. Petridis, Lawrence P. Staunton, Jon Vermedahl, Marshall Luban
comments: 12 pages, including 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403177
abstract: Analytical solutions to the time-dependent Shr\"{o}dinger equation in one dimension are developed for time-independent potentials, one consisting of an infinite wall and a repulsive delta function. An exact solution is obtained by means of a convolution of time-independent solutions spanning the given Hilbert space with appropriately chosen spectral functions. Square-integrability and the boundary conditions are satisfied. The probability for the particle to be found inside the potential well is calculated and shown to exhibit non-exponential decay decreasing at large times as $t^{-3}$. The result is generalized for all square-integrable solutions to this problem.

id: quant-ph/0403178
title: Localized Entanglement in one-dimensional Anderson model
authors: Haibin Li, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Modern Physics Letters B, Vol. 19, No. 11 (2005) 517-527
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403178
abstract: The entanglement in one-dimensional Anderson model is studied. We show that the pairwise entanglement measured by the average concurrence has a direct relation to the localization length. The numerical study indicates that the disorder significantly reduces the average entanglement, and entanglement distribution clearly displays the entanglement localization. The maximal pairwise entanglement exhibits a maximum as the disorder strength increases,experiencing a transition from increase to decrease. The entanglement between the center of localization and other site decreases exponentially along the spatial direction. Finally,we study effects of disorder on dynamical properties of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0403179
title: Noncommutative Bayesian Statistical Inference from a wedge of a Bifurcate Killing Horizon
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: some correction performed; to appear in "International Journal of Theoretical Physics"
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, vol. 43, n. 6, pages 1397-1408, June 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403179
abstract: Expanding a remark of my PHD-thesis the noncommutative bayesian statistical inference from one wedge of a bifurcate Killing horizon is analyzed looking at its inter-relation with the Unruh effect

id: quant-ph/0403180
title: Complete conditions for entanglement transfer
authors: M. Paternostro, W. Son, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages,3 figures, RevTeX4. To be published in Phys. Rev. Lett. This supersedes quant-ph/0310031 but we leave this as it has its own merit
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 197901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403180
abstract: We investigate the conditions to entangle two qubits interacting with local environments driven by a continuous-variable correlated field. We find the conditions to transfer the entanglement from the driving field to the qubits both in dynamical and steady-state cases. We see how the quantum correlations initially present in the driving field play a critical role in the entanglement-transfer process. The system we treat is general enough to be adapted to different physical setups.

id: quant-ph/0403181
title: Axiomatic Foundations of Galilean Quantum Field Theories
authors: G. Puccini, H. Vucetich
comments: LaTeX; 36 pages
journal: Found.Phys. 34 (2004) 263
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403181
abstract: A realistic axiomatic formulation of Galilean Quantum Field Theories is presented, from which the most important theorems of the theory can be deduced. In comparison with others formulations, the formal aspect has been improved by the use of certain mathematical theories, such as group theory and the theory of rigged Hilbert spaces. Our approach regards the fields as real things with symmetry properties. The general structure is analyzed and contrasted with relativistic theories.

id: quant-ph/0403182
title: Efficiency of tunable band-gap structures for single-photon emission
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Ludwig Kn?ll, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 063811 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403182
abstract: The efficiency of recently proposed single-photon emitting sources based on tunable planar band-gap structures is examined. The analysis is based on the study of the total and ``radiative'' decay rates, the expectation value of emitted radiation energy and its collimating cone. It is shown that the scheme operating in the frequency range near the defect resonance of a defect band-gap structure is more efficient than the one operating near the band edge of a perfect band-gap structure.

id: quant-ph/0403183
title: Steps towards the axiomatic foundations of the relativistic quantum field theory: Spin-statistics, commutation relations and CPT theorems
authors: G. D. Puccini, H. Vucetich
comments: LaTeX, 23 pages
journal: Found.Phys. 34 (2004) 643
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403183
abstract: A realistic physical axiomatic approach of the relativistic quantum field theory is presented. Following the action principle of Schwinger, a covariant and general formulation is obtained. The correspondence principle is not invoked and the commutation relations are not postulated but deduced. The most important theorems such as spin-statistics, and CPT are proved. The theory is constructed form the notion of basic field and system of basic fields. In comparison with others formulations, in our realistic approach fields are regarded as real things with symmetry properties. Finally, the general structure is contrasted with other formulations.

id: quant-ph/0403184
title: Coupled Classical and Quantum Oscillators
authors: Rachael M. McDermott, Ian H. Redmount
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403184
abstract: Some of the most enduring questions in physics--including the quantum measurement problem and the quantization of gravity--involve the interaction of a quantum system with a classical environment. Two linearly coupled harmonic oscillators provide a simple, exactly soluble model for exploring such interaction. Even the ground state of a pair of identical oscillators exhibits effects on the quantum nature of one oscillator, e.g., a diminution of position uncertainty, and an increase in momentum uncertainty and uncertainty product, from their unperturbed values. Interaction between quantum and classical oscillators is simulated by constructing a quantum state with one oscillator initially in its ground state, the other in a coherent or Glauber state. The subsequent wave function for this state is calculated exactly, both for identical and distinct oscillators. The reduced probability distribution for the quantum oscillator, and its position and momentum expectation values and uncertainties, are obtained from this wave function. The oscillator acquires an oscillation amplitude corresponding to a beating between the normal modes of the system; the behavior of the position and momentum uncertainties can become quite complicated. For oscillators with equal unperturbed frequencies, i.e., at resonance, the uncertainties exhibit a time-dependent quantum squeezing which can be extreme.

id: quant-ph/0403185
title: First-order super-radiant phase transitions in a multi-qubit--cavity system
authors: Chiu Fan Lee, Neil F. Johnson
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 083001 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403185
abstract: We predict the existence of novel first-order phase transitions in a general class of multi-qubit-cavity systems. Apart from atomic systems, the associated super-radiant phase transition should be observable in a variety of solid-state experimental systems, including the technologically important case of interacting quantum dots coupled to an optical cavity mode.

id: quant-ph/0403186
title: Deterministic Secure Direct Bidirectional Communication Protocol
authors: Zhanjun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403186
abstract: In this letter a deterministic secure direct bidirectional communication protocol is proposed by using the quantum entanglement and local unitary operations on one photon of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) photon pair.

id: quant-ph/0403187
title: On trace inequalities and their applications to noncommutative communication theory
authors: Kenjiro Yanagi, Shigeru Furuichi, Ken Kuriyama
comments: 8 pages
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications, Volume 395, 15 January 2005, Pages 351-359
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403187
abstract: Certain trace inequalities related to matrix logarithm are shown. These results enable us to give a partial answer of the open problem conjectured by A.S.Holevo. That is, concavity of the auxiliary function which appears in the random coding exponent as the lower bound of the quantum reliability function for general quantum states is proven in the case of $0\leq s\leq 1$.

id: quant-ph/0403188
title: Zero-error capacity of a quantum channel
authors: Rex A. C. Medeiros, Francisco M. de Assis
comments: One page abstract accepted for presentation at Foundations of Quantum Information - FQI04 - Italy
journal: IJQI, vol. 3(1), pp.135-139, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403188
abstract: We define the quantum zero-error capacity, a new kind of classical capacity of a noisy quantum channel. Moreover, the necessary requirement for which a quantum channel has zero-error capacity greater than zero is also given.

id: quant-ph/0403189
title: Not So SuperDense Coding - Deterministic Dense Coding with Partially Entangled States
authors: Shay Mozes, Benni Reznik, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403189
abstract: The utilization of a $d$-level partially entangled state, shared by two parties wishing to communicate classical information without errors over a noiseless quantum channel, is discussed. We analytically construct deterministic dense coding schemes for certain classes of non-maximally entangled states, and numerically obtain schemes in the general case. We study the dependency of the information capacity of such schemes on the partially entangled state shared by the two parties. Surprisingly, for $d>2$ it is possible to have deterministic dense coding with less than one ebit. In this case the number of alphabet letters that can be communicated by a single particle, is between $d$ and 2d. In general we show that the alphabet size grows in "steps" with the possible values $ d, d+1, ..., d^2-2 $. We also find that states with less entanglement can have greater communication capacity than other more entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0403190
title: Entanglement is not very useful for estimating multiple phases
authors: Manuel A. Ballester
comments: v2. New title, improved Fig.3, other minor changes, Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403190
abstract: The problem of the estimation of multiple phases (or of commuting unitaries) is considered. This is a sub-model of the estimation of a completely unknown unitary operation where it has been shown in recent works that there are considerable improvements by using entangled input states and entangled measurements. Here it is shown that when estimating commuting unitaries, there is practically no advantage in using entangled input states or entangled measurements.

id: quant-ph/0403191
title: Proposal for a loophole-free Bell test using homodyne detection
authors: R. Garcia-Patron Sanchez, J. Fiurasek, N.J. Cerf, J. Wenger, R. Tualle-Brouri, Ph. Grangier
comments: 4 pages RevTex, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 130409 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403191
abstract: We propose a feasible optical setup allowing for a loophole-free Bell test with efficient homodyne detection. A non-gaussian entangled state is generated from a two-mode squeezed vacuum by subtracting a single photon from each mode, using beamsplitters and standard low-efficiency single-photon detectors. A Bell violation exceeding 1% is achievable with 6-dB squeezed light and an homodyne efficiency around 95%. A detailed feasibility analysis, based upon the recent generation of single-mode non-gaussian states, confirms that this method opens a promising avenue towards a complete experimental Bell test.

id: quant-ph/0403192
title: Decoherence in the quantum walk on the line
authors: A. Romanelli, R. Siri, G. Abal, A. Auyuanet, R. Donangelo
comments: Elsevier style, 18 pages. New enhanced version with more material: new title, a new section was added and the discussion was updated; references added; submitted to Physica A
journal: Phys. A, vol 347C, pp. 137-152 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403192
abstract: We investigate the quantum walk on the line when decoherences are introduced either through simultaneous measurements of the chirality and particle position, or as a result of broken links. Both mechanisms drive the system to a classical diffusive behavior. In the case of measurements, we show that the diffusion coefficient is proportional to the variance of the initially localized quantum random walker just before the first measurement. When links between neighboring sites are randomly broken with probability $p$ per unit time, the evolution becomes decoherent after a characteristic time that scales as $1/p$. The fact that the quadratic increase of the variance is eventually lost even for very small frequencies of disrupting events, suggests that the implementation of a quantum walk on a real physical system may be severely limited by thermal noise and lattice imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0403193
title: Quantum weak coin-flipping with bias of 0.192
authors: Carlos Mochon
comments: 13 pages, REVTeX 4 (minor corrections in v2). Arxiv paper is slightly longer than the FOCS version and contains extra examples and discussion
journal: In proceedings of the 45th Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403193
abstract: A family of protocols for quantum weak coin-flipping which asymptotically achieve a bias of 0.192 is described in this paper. The family contains protocols with n+2 messages for all n>1. The case n=2 is equivalent to the protocol of Spekkens and Rudolph with bias of 0.207. The case n=3 achieves a bias of 0.199, and n=8 achieves a bias of 0.193. The analysis of the protocols uses Kitaev's description of coin-flipping as a semidefinite program. The paper constructs an analytical solution to the dual problem which provides an upper bound on the amount that a party can cheat.

id: quant-ph/0403194
title: Recoil Effects in Microwave Ramsey Spectroscopy
authors: Peter Wolf, Christian J. Borde
comments: to be submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403194
abstract: We present a theory of recoil effects in two zone Ramsey spectroscopy, particularly adapted to microwave frequency standards using laser cooled atoms. We describe the atoms by a statistical distribution of Gaussian wave packets which enables us to derive and quantify effects that are related to the coherence properties of the atomic source and that have not been considered previously. We show that, depending on the experimental conditions, the expected recoil frequency shift can be partially cancelled by these effects which can be significant at microwave wavelengths whilst negligible at optical ones. We derive analytical expressions for the observed interference signal in the weak field approximation, and numerical results for realistic caesium fountain parameters. In the near future Cs and Rb fountain clocks are expected to reach uncertainties which are of the same order of magnitude (10^{-16}) as first estimates of the recoil shift at microwave frequencies. We show, however, that the partial cancellation predicted by the complete theory presented here leads to frequency shifts which are up to an order of magnitude smaller. Nonetheless observation of the microwave recoil shift should be possible under particular experimental conditions (increased microwave power, variation of atomic temperature and launching height etc.). We hope that the present paper can provide some guidance for such experiments that would test the underlying theory and its assumptions, which in turn is essential for the next generation of microwave frequency standards.

id: quant-ph/0403195
title: On the momentum-space approach to calculation of one-electron energy spectra and wave functions of atomic clusters
authors: V.F.Elesin, A.I.Podlivaev, L.A.Openov
comments: 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Low-Dim. Struct., Vol. 9/10, pp.39-50 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403195
abstract: Momentum-space approach to calculation of one-electron energies and wave functions proposed initially by Fock for a hydrogen atom and considered later by Shibuya, Wulfman, and Koga for diatomic molecules is applied to clusters composed of three and more atoms. The corresponding basis set in the coordinate space is of the Sturmian type since all the hydrogenlike orbitals in this set have a common exponent, i.e., correspond to the same energy (as opposed to one-electron atomic orbitals). By the examples of He$_4^{+7}$ and He$_6^{+11}$ cluster ions it is shown that increase in the number of orbitals in the set results in rapid convergence of eigenenergies and eigenfunctions of highly excited states. The momentum-space approach to the one-electron many-center problem may be used for various solid-state and quantum-chemical applications.

id: quant-ph/0403196
title: Periodic Quasi - Exactly Solvable Models
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 11 pages, 5 tables
journal: Int. jour. of Theoretical Phys., 44, No. 8, 1167 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403196
abstract: Various quasi-exact solvability conditions, involving the parameters of the periodic associated Lam{\'e} potential, are shown to emerge naturally in the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi approach. It is found that, the intrinsic nonlinearity of the Riccati type quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation is primarily responsible for the surprisingly large number of allowed solvability conditions in the associated Lam{\'e} case. We also study the singularity structure of the quantum momentum function, which yields the band edge eigenvalues and eigenfunctions.

id: quant-ph/0403197
title: Quantum computations with atoms in optical lattices: marker qubits and molecular interactions
authors: T. Calarco, U. Dorner, P. Julienne, C. Williams, P. Zoller
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403197
abstract: We develop a scheme for quantum computation with neutral atoms, based on the concept of "marker" atoms, i.e., auxiliary atoms that can be efficiently transported in state-independent periodic external traps to operate quantum gates between physically distant qubits. This allows for relaxing a number of experimental constraints for quantum computation with neutral atoms in microscopic potential, including single-atom laser addressability. We discuss the advantages of this approach in a concrete physical scenario involving molecular interactions.

id: quant-ph/0403198
title: Automatical generation of nonadiabatic conditional geometric phase shift via a noncoplanar fiber system
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403198
abstract: A new scheme of realizing the nonadiabatic conditional geometric phase shift via a noncoplanar (and coiled) fiber system is presented in this Letter. It is shown that the effective Hamiltonian that describes the interaction of polarized photons with the fiber medium is just the Wang-Keiji type of Hamiltonian. This, therefore, means that the coiled fiber system may be an ideal implementation of realizing the nonadiabatic geometric phase gates for the topological quantum computation. The remarkable feature of the present method is that it can automatically meet the conditions and requirements proposed in the Wang-Keiji scheme: (i) in the coiled fiber system, the dynamical phase of photon wavefunction caused by the interaction Hamiltonian automatically vanishes; (ii) the Wang-Keiji requirement for the parameters in the Wang-Keiji Hamiltonian can be exactly satisfied automatically in the fiber system; (iii) the conditional initial state can be easily achieved by manipulating the initial wave vector of polarized photons. Due to these three advantages, the coiled fiber system may be a potentially practical way of achieving the nonadiabatic conditional geometric phase shift (and hence the nonadiabatic geometric quantum gates).

id: quant-ph/0403199
title: The Role of the Exclusion Principle for Atoms to Stars: A Historical Account
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: 28 pages, Invited talk at the 12th Workshop on Nuclear Astrophysics, March 22-27, 2004, Ringberg Castle, Germany
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403199
abstract: In a first historical part I shall give a detailed description of how Pauli discovered --before the advent of the new quantum mechanics -- his exclusion principle. The second part is devoted to the insight and results that have been obtained in more recent times in our understanding of the stability of matter in bulk, both for ordinary matter (like stones) and self-gravitating bodies.

id: quant-ph/0403200
title: Three-party pure quantum states are determined by two two-party reduced states
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 2pp
journal: Phys. Rev. A70 (2004) 10302-(2)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403200
abstract: We can uniquely calculate almost all entangled state vectors of tripartite systems ABC if we know the reduced states of any two bipartite subsystems, e.g., of AB and of BC. We construct the explicit solution.

id: quant-ph/0403201
title: Hillery-type squeezing in fan-states
authors: Minh Duc Truong, Ba An Nguyen
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403201
abstract: We study the Hillery-type, i.e. $N$-th power, amplitude squeezing in the fan-state $| \xi ;2k,f>_{F}$ characterized by $\xi \in \mathcal{C}$, $k=1,2,3,...$ and $f$ a nonlinear operator-valued function. We show that for a given $k$ there exists a critical $\xi_c$ such that for $0<|\xi|\leq|\xi_c|$ squeezing occurs simultaneously in $2k$ directions for the powers $N$ which are a multiple of $2k$. This result does not depend on the concrete form of $f$, i.e. it holds true for both $f\equiv 1$ and $f\neq 1$. However, for $f\neq 1$, which is realized here in the ion trap context, the squeezing directions as well as the magnitude of $\xi$ can be controlled by adjusting the system driving parameters.

id: quant-ph/0403202
title: Relativistic and Radiative Corrections to the Mollow Spectrum
authors: Joerg Evers, Ulrich D. Jentschura, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure; RevTeX
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 062111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403202
abstract: The incoherent, inelastic part of the resonance fluorescence spectrum of a laser-driven atom is known as the Mollow spectrum [B. R. Mollow, Phys. Rev. 188, 1969 (1969)]. Starting from this level of description, we discuss theoretical foundations of high-precision spectroscopy using the resonance fluorescence light of strongly laser-driven atoms. Specifically, we evaluate the leading relativistic and radiative corrections to the Mollow spectrum, up to the relative orders of (Z alpha)^2 and alpha(Z alpha)^2, respectively, and Bloch-Siegert shifts as well as stimulated radiative corrections involving off-resonant virtual states. Complete results are provided for the hydrogen 1S-2P_{1/2} and 1S-2P_{3/2} transitions; these include all relevant correction terms up to the specified order of approximation and could directly be compared to experimental data. As an application, the outcome of such experiments would allow for a sensitive test of the validity of the dressed-state basis as the natural description of the combined atom-laser system.

id: quant-ph/0403203
title: Identification via Quantum Channels in the Presence of Prior Correlation and Feedback
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: 19 pages. Requires Rinton-P9x6.cls. v2 has some minor errors/typoes corrected and the claims of remark 22 toned down (proofs are not so easy after all). v3 has references to simultaneous ID coding removed: there were necessary changes in quant-ph/0401060. v4 (final form) has minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403203
abstract: Continuing our earlier work (quant-ph/0401060), we give two alternative proofs of the result that a noiseless qubit channel has identification capacity 2: the first is direct by a "maximal code with random extension" argument, the second is by showing that 1 bit of entanglement (which can be generated by transmitting 1 qubit) and negligible (quantum) communication has identification capacity 2. This generalises a random hashing construction of Ahlswede and Dueck: that 1 shared random bit together with negligible communication has identification capacity 1. We then apply these results to prove capacity formulas for various quantum feedback channels: passive classical feedback for quantum-classical channels, a feedback model for classical-quantum channels, and "coherent feedback" for general channels.

id: quant-ph/0403204
title: Off-diagonal quantum holonomy along density operators
authors: Stefan Filipp, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: 13 pages, revised version with new example section
journal: Phys. Lett. A 342, 205 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403204
abstract: Uhlmann's concept of quantum holonomy for paths of density operators is generalised to the off-diagonal case providing insight into the geometry of state space when the Uhlmann holonomy is undefined. Comparison with previous off-diagonal geometric phase definitions is carried out and an example comprising the transport of a Bell-state mixture is given.

id: quant-ph/0403205
title: Control of decoherence: analysis and comparison of three different strategies
authors: P. Facchi, S. Tasaki, S. Pascazio, H. Nakazato, A. Tokuse, D.A. Lidar
comments: 30 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 022302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403205
abstract: We analyze and compare three different strategies, all aimed at controlling and eventually halting decoherence. The first strategy hinges upon the quantum Zeno effect, the second makes use of frequent unitary interruptions ("bang-bang" pulses and their generalization, quantum dynamical decoupling), and the third of a strong, continuous coupling. Decoherence is shown to be suppressed only if the frequency N of the measurements/pulses is large enough or if the coupling K is sufficiently strong. Otherwise, if N or K are large, but not extremely large, all these control procedures accelerate decoherence. We investigate the problem in a general setting and then consider some practical examples, relevant for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0403206
title: Quantum correlations from Brownian diffusion of chaotic level-spacings
authors: S.N. Evangelou, D.E. Katsanos
comments: 4 pages, revtex file, 4 postscript files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403206
abstract: Quantum chaos is linked to Brownian diffusion of the underlying quantum energy level-spacing sequences. The level-spacings viewed as functions of their order execute random walks which imply uncorrelated random increments of the level-spacings while the integrability to chaos transition becomes a change from Poisson to Gauss statistics for the level-spacing increments. This universal nature of quantum chaotic spectral correlations is numerically demonstrated for eigenvalues from random tight binding lattices and for zeros of the Riemann zeta function.

id: quant-ph/0403207
title: On the relation between quantum mechanical probabilities and event frequencies
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 16 pages LATEX. Minor corrections, final version to appear in Ann. Phys
journal: Annals of Physics 313, 368 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403207
abstract: The probability `measure' for measurements at two consecutive moments of time is non-additive. These probabilities, on the other hand, may be determined by the limit of relative frequency of measured events, which are by nature additive. We demonstrate that there are only two ways to resolve this problem. The first solution places emphasis on the precise use of the concept of conditional probability for successive measurements. The physically correct conditional probabilities define additive probabilities for two-time measurements. These probabilities depend explicitly on the resolution of the physical device and do not, therefore, correspond to a function of the associated projection operators. It follows that quantum theory distinguishes between physical events and propositions about events, the latter are not represented by projection operators and that the outcomes of two-time experiments cannot be described by quantum logic. The alternative explanation is rather radical: it is conceivable that the relative frequencies for two-time measurements do not converge, unless a particular consistency condition is satisfied. If this is true, a strong revision of the quantum mechanical formalism may prove necessary. We stress that it is possible to perform experiments that will distinguish the two alternatives.

id: quant-ph/0403208
title: Enscription of Quantum Texts
authors: Randall Espinoza, Tom Imbo, Paul Lopata
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403208
abstract: We investigate an entangled deformation of the deterministic quantum cloning process, called enscription, that can be applied to (certain) sets of distinct quantum states which are not necessarily orthogonal, called texts. Some basic theorems on enscribable texts are given, and a relationship to probabilistic quantum cloning is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0403209
title: Towards a Coherent Theory of Physics and Mathematics: The Theory-Experiment Connection
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures: Contribution to 70th birthday festschrift for Asher Peres; minor changes that may fix download problems
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol 35, pp 1825-1856, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403209
abstract: The problem of how mathematics and physics are related at a foundational level is of much interest. One approach is to work towards a coherent theory of physics and mathematics together. Here steps are taken in this direction by first examining the theory experiment connection. The role of an implied theory hierarchy and use of computers in comparing theory and experiment is described. The main idea of the paper is to tighten the theory experiment connection by bringing physical theories, as mathematical structures over C, the complex numbers, closer to what is actually done in experimental measurements and computations. The method replaces C by C_{n} which is the set of pairs, R_{n},I_{n}, of n figure rational numbers in some basis. The properties of these numbers are based on the type of numbers that represent measurement outcomes for continuous variables. A model of space and time based on R_{n} is discussed. The model is scale invariant with regions of constant step size interrupted by exponential jumps. A method of taking the limit n to infinity to obtain locally flat continuum based space and time is outlined. Possibly the most interesting result is that R_{n} based space is invariant under scale transformations which correspond to expansion and contraction of space relative to a flat background. Also the location of the origin, which is a space and time singularity, does not change under these transformations. Some properties of quantum mechanics based on C_{n} and on R_{n} space are briefly investigated.

id: quant-ph/0403210
title: Translation of Quantum Texts
authors: Randall Espinoza, Tom Imbo, Paul Lopata
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403210
abstract: In the companion to this paper, we described a generalization of the deterministic quantum cloning process, called enscription, which utilizes entanglement in order to achieve the "copying" of (certain) sets of distinct quantum states which are not orthogonal, called texts. Here we provide a further generalization, called translation, which allows us to completely determine all translatable texts, and which displays an intimate relationship to the mathematical theory of graphs.

id: quant-ph/0403211
title: Some Effects of Classical Feedback on the Classical Capacity of a Memoryless Quantum Channel
authors: Gleb V. Klimovitch
comments: 4-page preprint, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403211
abstract: Classical feedback is defined here as the knowledge by the transmitter of the quantum state of the qubit received by the receiver. Such classical feedback doubles capacities of certain memoryless quantum channels without preexisting entanglement between transmitter and receiver. The increase in capacity, which is absent on classical memoryless channels, occurs because we can transform an entangled qubit pair into any other entangled state by applying a unitary operator to only one of the qubits.

id: quant-ph/0403212
title: Macroscopic Observables
authors: David Poulin
comments: 15 pages, presentation improved, appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 22102 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403212
abstract: We study macroscopic observables defined as the total value of a physical quantity over a collection of quantum systems. We show that previous results obtained for infinite ensemble of identically prepared systems lead to incorrect conclusions for finite ensembles. In particular, exact measurement of a macroscopic observable significantly disturbs the state of any finite ensemble. However, we show how this disturbance can be made arbitrarily small when the measurement are of finite accuracy. We demonstrate a tradeoff between state disturbance and measurement coarseness as a function of the size of the ensemble. Using this tradeoff, we show that the histories generated by any sequence of finite accuracy macroscopic measurements always generate a consistent family in the absence of large scale entanglement, for sufficiently large ensembles. Hence, macroscopic observables behave "classically" provided that their accuracy is coarser than the quantum correlation length-scale of the system. The role of these observable is also discussed in the context of NMR quantum information processing and bulk ensemble quantum state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0403213
title: Adiabatic Geometric Phase for a General Quantum States
authors: Biao Wu, Jie Liu, Qian Niu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 (2005) 140402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403213
abstract: A geometric phase is found for a general quantum state that undergoes adiabatic evolution. For the case of eigenstates, it reduces to the original Berry's phase. Such a phase is applicable in both linear and nonlinear quantum systems. Furthermore, this new phase is related to Hannay's angles as we find that these angles, a classical concept, can arise naturally in quantum systems. The results are demonstrated with a two-level model.

id: quant-ph/0403214
title: Entanglement of electron spins of non-interacting electron gases
authors: Sangchul Oh, Jaewan Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 69, 054305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403214
abstract: We study entanglement of electron spins in many-body systems based on the Green's function approach. As an application we obtain the two-particle density matrix of a non-interacting electron gas and identify its two-spin density matrix as a Werner state. We calculate entanglement measures, a classical correlation, mutual information, and a pair distribution function of two electrons at zero and finite temperatures. We find that changes of entanglement measures are proportional to $T^2$ at low temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0403215
title: Secure direct bidirectional communication protocol using the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pair block
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403215
abstract: In light of Deng-Long-Liu's two-step secret direct communication protocol using the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pair block [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 68}, 042317 (2003)], by introducing additional local operations for encoding, we propose a brand-new secure direct communication protocol, in which two legitimate users can simultaneously transmit their different secret messages to each other in a set of quantum communication device.

id: quant-ph/0403216
title: q-Fermionic Numbers and Their Roles in Some Physical Problems
authors: R.Parthasarathy
comments: Latex, 14 pages, to appear in Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403216
abstract: The q-fermion numbers emerging from the q-fermion oscillator algebra are used to reproduce the q-fermionic Stirling and Bell numbers. New recurrence relations for the expansion coefficients in the 'anti-normal ordering' of the q-fermion operators are derived. The roles of the q-fermion numbers in q-stochastic point processes and the Bargmann space representation for q-fermion operators are explored.

id: quant-ph/0403217
title: Secure Bidirectional Communication Protocol without Quantum Channel
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: Submitted to PRL. Comments and helps are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403217
abstract: In this letter we propose a theoretical deterministic secure direct bidirectional quantum communication protocol by using swapping quantum entanglement and local unitary operations, in which the quantum channel for photon transmission can be discarded, hence any attack with or without eavesdropping or even the destructive attack without scruple is impossible.

id: quant-ph/0403218
title: Deterministic secure direct communication by using swapping quantum entanglement and local unitary operations
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403218
abstract: A deterministic direct quantum communication protocol by using swapping quantum entanglement and local unitary operations is proposed in this paper. A set of ordered EPR pairs in one of the four Bell states is used. For each pair, each of the two legitimate users owns a photon of the entangled pair via quantum channel. The pairs are divided into two types of group, i.e., the checking groups and the encoding-decoding groups. In the checking groups, taking advantage of the swapping quantum entanglement and Alice's (the message sender's) public announcement, the eavesdropping can be detected provided that the number of the checking groups is big enough. After insuring the security of the quantum channel, Alice encodes her bits via the local unitary operations on the encoding-decoding groups. Then she performs her Bell measurements on her photons and publicly announces her measurement results. After her announcement, the message receiver Bob performs his Bell measurements on his photons and directly extracts the encoding bits by using the property of the quantum entanglement swapping. The security of the present scheme is also discussed: under the attack scenarios to our best knowledge, the scheme is secure.

id: quant-ph/0403219
title: Entropic uncertainty relations and entanglement
authors: Otfried Guehne, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, v2: small changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022316 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403219
abstract: We discuss the relationship between entropic uncertainty relations and entanglement. We present two methods for deriving separability criteria in terms of entropic uncertainty relations. Especially we show how any entropic uncertainty relation on one part of the system results in a separability condition on the composite system. We investigate the resulting criteria using the Tsallis entropy for two and three qubits.

id: quant-ph/0403220
title: Improving quantum dense key distribution
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403220
abstract: The capacity of the quantum dense key distribution (QDKD) [Phys. Rev. A69, 032310 (2004)] is doubled by introducing the dense coding. The security of the improved QDKD against eavesdropping is pointed out to be easily proven. In both the original QDKD and the present improved QDKD, a strategy to double the efficiency of generating the secret key with given length is proposed. In addition, we point out a leak of security of the original QDKD and fix it.

id: quant-ph/0403221
title: Multiparty quantum secret sharing of secure direct communication
authors: Z. J. Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403221
abstract: Based on the two-step protocol [Phys. Rev. A68(03)042317], we propose a $(n,n)$-threshold multiparty quantum secret sharing protocol of secure direct communication. In our protocol only all the sharers collaborate can the sender's secure direct communication message be extracted. We show a variant version of this protocol based on the variant two-step protocol. This variant version can considerably reduce the realization difficulty in experiment. In contrast to the use of multi-particle GHZ states in the case that the sharer number is larger than 3, the use and identification of Bell states are enough in our two protocols disregarding completely the sharer number, hence, our protocols are more feasible in technique.

id: quant-ph/0403222
title: Anyons and transmutation of statistics via vacuum induced Berry phase
authors: Roberto M. Serra, Angelo Carollo, Marcelo Franca Santos, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 044102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403222
abstract: We show that bosonic fields may present anyonic behavior when interacting with a fermion in a Jaynes-Cummings-like model. The proposal is accomplished via the interaction of a two-level system with two quantized modes of a harmonic oscillator; under suitable conditions, the system acquires a fractional geometric phase. A crucial role is played by the entanglement of the system eigenstates, which provides a two-dimensional confinement in the effective evolution of the system, leading to the anyonic behavior. For a particular choice of parameters, we show that it is possible to transmute the statistics of the system continually from fermions to bosons. We also present an experimental proposal, in an ion-trap setup, in which fractional statistical features can be generated, controlled, and measured.

id: quant-ph/0403223
title: Linear representation of energy-dependent Hamiltonians
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 14 pages - first half of the material to be presented during 2nd International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in June (cf. this http URL)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 326 (2004) 70 - 76
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403223
abstract: Effective (i.e., subspace-constrained) Hamiltonians become, by construction, energy-dependent while all the energy-dependent forces prove non-linear because the energy itself is merely an eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian H. One of the most natural resolutions of such a puzzle is proposed via an introduction of teh two separate linear representatives of the respective right and left action of H=H(E). Both the new energy-independent operators are non-Hermitian so that the formalism admits a natural extension to non-Hermitian initial H(E)s.

id: quant-ph/0403224
title: Compact Source of EPR Entanglement and Squeezing at Very Low Noise Frequencies
authors: Julien Laurat, Thomas Coudreau, Gaelle Keller, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 70 (2004) 042315
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403224
abstract: We report on the experimental demonstration of strong quadrature EPR entanglement and squeezing at very low noise sideband frequencies produced by a single type-II, self-phase-locked, frequency degenerate optical parametric oscillator below threshold. The generated two-mode squeezed vacuum state is preserved for noise frequencies as low as 50 kHz. Designing simple setups able to generate non-classical states of light in the kHz regime is a key challenge for high sensitivity detection of ultra-weak physical effects such as gravitational wave or small beam displacement.

id: quant-ph/0403225
title: Selective spin coupling through a single exciton
authors: A. Nazir, B. W. Lovett, S. D. Barrett, T. P. Spiller, G. A. D. Briggs
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; published version, equation formatting improved, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 150502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403225
abstract: We present a novel scheme for performing a conditional phase gate between two spin qubits in adjacent semiconductor quantum dots through delocalized single exciton states, formed through the inter-dot Foerster interaction. We consider two resonant quantum dots, each containing a single excess conduction band electron whose spin embodies the qubit. We demonstrate that both the two-qubit gate, and arbitrary single-qubit rotations, may be realized to a high fidelity with current semiconductor and laser technology.

id: quant-ph/0403226
title: Measuring errors in single qubit rotations by pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance
authors: John J. L. Morton, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Arzhang Ardavan, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, S. A. Lyon, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012332 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403226
abstract: The ability to measure and reduce systematic errors in single-qubit logic gates is crucial when evaluating quantum computing implementations. We describe pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) sequences that can be used to measure precisely even small systematic errors in rotations of electron-spin-based qubits. Using these sequences we obtain values for errors in rotation angle and axis for single-qubit rotations using a commercial EPR spectrometer. We conclude that errors in qubit operations by pulsed EPR are not limiting factors in the implementation of electron-spin based quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0403227
title: Coherence protection by the quantum Zeno effect and non-holonomic control in a Rydberg Rubidium isotope
authors: E. Brion, V.M. Akulin, D. Comparat, I. Dumer, G. Harel, N. Kebaili, G. Kurizki, I. Mazets, P. Pillet
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403227
abstract: The protection of the coherence of open quantum systems against the influence of their environment is a very topical issue. A scheme is proposed here which protects a general quantum system from the action of a set of arbitrary uncontrolled unitary evolutions. This method draws its inspiration from ideas of standard error-correction (ancilla adding, coding and decoding) and the Quantum Zeno Effect. A pedagogical demonstration of our method on a simple atomic system, namely a Rubidium isotope, is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0403228
title: Quantum Knots
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures, LaTeX document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403228
abstract: This paper proposes the definition of a quantum knot as a linear superposition of classical knots in three dimensional space. The definition is constructed and examples are discussed. Then the paper details extensions and also limitations of the Aravind Hypothesis for comparing quantum measurement with classical topological measurement. We propose a separate, network model for quantum evolution and measurement, where the background space is replaced by an evolving network. In this model there is an analog of the Aravind Hypothesis that promises to directly illuminate relationships between physics, topology and quantum knots.

id: quant-ph/0403229
title: Quantum Hidden Subgroup Algorithms: The Devil Is in the Details
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco, Jr. Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 5 pages, to appear in April 2004 Proceedings of SPIE on Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403229
abstract: We conjecture that one of the main obstacles to creating new non-abelian quantum hidden subgroup algorithms is the correct choice of a transversal.

id: quant-ph/0403230
title: Generalizing Several Theoretical Deterministic Secure Direct Bidirectional Communications to Improve Their Capacities
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403230
abstract: Several theoretical Deterministic Secure Direct Bidirectional Communication protocols are generalized to improve their capacities by introducing the superdense-coding in the case of high-dimension quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0403231
title: Effect of intersubsystem coupling on the geometric phase in a bipartite system
authors: X.X. Yi, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: New title, small changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042104 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403231
abstract: The influence of intersubsystem coupling on the cyclic adiabatic geometric phase in bipartite systems is investigated. We examine the geometric phase effects for two uniaxially coupled spin$-{1/2}$ particles, both driven by a slowly rotating magnetic field. It is demonstrated that the relation between the geometric phase and the solid angle enclosed by the magnetic field is broken by the spin-spin coupling, in particular leading to a quenching effect on the geometric phase in the strong coupling limit.

id: quant-ph/0403232
title: Global entangling properties of the coupled kicked tops
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Marek Kus
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 066216 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403232
abstract: We study global entangling properties of the system of coupled kicked tops testing various hypotheses and predictions concerning entanglement in quantum chaotic systems. In order to analyze the averaged initial entanglement production rate and the averaged asymptotic entanglement different ensembles of initial product states are evolved. Two different ensembles with natural probability distribution are considered: product states of independent spin-coherent states and product states of arbitrary states. It appears that the choice of either of these ensembles results in significantly different averaged entanglement behavior. We investigate also a relation between the averaged asymptotic entanglement and the mean entanglement of the eigenvectors of an evolution operator. Lower bound on the averaged asymptotic entanglement is derived, expressed in terms of the eigenvector entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0403233
title: Spatial structures and localization of vacuum entanglement in the linear harmonic chain
authors: Alonso Botero, Benni Reznik
comments: 23 pages, 19 figures, RevTex4. High resolution figures available upon request. New References added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052329 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403233
abstract: We study the structure of vacuum entanglement for two complimentary segments of a linear harmonic chain, applying the modewise decomposition of entangled gaussian states discussed in \cite {modewise}. We find that the resulting entangled mode shape hierarchy shows a distinctive layered structure with well defined relations between the depth of the modes, their characteristic wavelength, and their entanglement contribution. We re-derive in the strong coupling (diverging correlation length) regime, the logarithmic dependence of entanglement on the segment size predicted by conformal field theory for the boson universality class, and discuss its relation with the mode structure. We conjecture that the persistence of vacuum entanglement between arbitrarily separated finite size regions is connected with the localization of the highest frequency innermost modes.

id: quant-ph/0403234
title: Pulsed squeezed vacuum characterization without homodyning
authors: J. Wenger, J. Fiurasek, R. Tualle-Brouri, N.J. Cerf, Ph. Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053812 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0403234
abstract: Direct photon detection is experimentally implemented to measure the squeezing and purity of a single-mode squeezed vacuum state without an interferometric homodyne detection. Following a recent theoretical proposal [arXiv quant-ph/0311119], the setup only requires a tunable beamsplitter and a single-photon detector to fully characterize the generated Gaussian states. The experimental implementation of this procedure is discussed and compared with other reference methods.

id: cond-mat/0403002
title: Phase engineering of squeezed states and controlled entangled number states of Bose-Einstein condensates in multiple wells
authors: Khan W. Mahmud, Mary Ann Leung, William P. Reinhardt
comments: revised version, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403002
abstract: We provide a scheme for the generation of controlled entangled number states of Bose-Einstein condensates in multiple wells, and also provide a novel method for the creation of squeezed states without severe adiabatic constraints on barrier heights. The condensate in a multiple well trap can be evolved, starting with a specific initial phase difference between the neighboring wells, to a tunable entangled state or a squeezed state. We propose a general formula for the initial phase difference between the neighboring wells that is valid for any number of wells, even and odd.

id: cond-mat/0403025
title: The Writhe Distribution Of Stretched Polymers
authors: Supurna Sinha
comments: updated address
journal: Physical Review E Vol.70, 011801, 2004
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403025
abstract: Motivated by experiments in which single DNA molecules are stretched and twisted we consider a perturbative approach around very high forces, where we determine the writhe distribution in a simple, analytically tractable model. Our results are in agreement with recent simulations and experiments.

id: cond-mat/0403145
title: Influence of trapping potentials on the phase diagram of bosonic atoms in optical lattices
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, G. Mazzarella, S. De Siena
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; final version, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 061601(R) (2004)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403145
abstract: We study the effect of external trapping potentials on the phase diagram of bosonic atoms in optical lattices. We introduce a generalized Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian that includes the structure of the energy levels of the trapping potential, and show that these levels are in general populated both at finite and zero temperature. We characterize the properties of the superfluid transition for this situation and compare them with those of the standard Bose-Hubbard description. We briefly discuss similar behaviors for fermionic systems.

id: cond-mat/0403257
title: Cavity QED in superconducting circuits: susceptibility at elevated temperatures
authors: Ileana Rau, G?ran Johansson, Alexander Shnirman
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, art. no. 054521 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403257
abstract: We study the properties of superconducting electrical circuits, realizing cavity QED. In particular we explore the limit of strong coupling, low dissipation, and elevated temperatures relevant for current and future experiments. We concentrate on the cavity susceptibility as it can be directly experimentally addressed, i.e., as the impedance or the reflection coefficient of the cavity. To this end we investigate the dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model in the strong coupling regime at high temperatures. The dynamics is investigated within the Bloch-Redfield formalism. At low temperatures, when only the few lowest levels are occupied the susceptibility can be presented as a sum of contributions from independent level-to-level transitions. This corresponds to the secular (random phase) approximation in the Bloch-Redfield formalism. At temperatures comparable to and higher than the oscillator frequency, many transitions become important and a multiple-peak structure appears. We show that in this regime the secular approximation breaks down, as soon as the peaks start to overlap. In other words, the susceptibility is no longer a sum of contributions from independent transitions. We treat the dynamics of the system numerically by exact diagonalization of the Hamiltonian of the qubit plus up to 200 states of the oscillator. We compare the results obtained with and without the secular approximation and find a qualitative discrepancy already at moderate temperatures.

id: cond-mat/0403313
title: Time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group using adaptive effective Hilbert spaces
authors: A. J. Daley, C. Kollath, U. Schollwoeck, G. Vidal
comments: 27 pages, 14 figures; changed to journal format, better readable figures, minor corrections, correct setup of second order Trotter decomposition, added journal reference
journal: J. Stat. Mech.: Theor. Exp. (2004) P04005
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403313
abstract: An algorithm for the simulation of the evolution of slightly entangled quantum states has been recently proposed as a tool to study time-dependent phenomena in one-dimensional quantum systems. Its key feature is a time-evolving block-decimation (TEBD) procedure to identify and dynamically update the relevant, conveniently small subregion of the otherwise exponentially large Hilbert space. Potential applications of the TEBD algorithm are the simulation of time-dependent Hamiltonians, transport in quantum systems far from equilibrium and dissipative quantum mechanics.In this paper we translate the TEBD algorithm into the language of matrix product states in order to both highlight and exploit its resemblances to the widely used density-matrix renormalization-group (DMRG) algorithms. The TEBD algorithm being based on updating a matrix product state in time, it is very accessible to the DMRG community and it can be enhanced by using well-known DMRG techniques, for instance in the event of good quantum numbers. More importantly, we show how it can be simply incorporated into existing DMRG implementations to produce a remarkably effective and versatile ``adaptive time-dependent DMRG'' variant, that we also test and compare to previous proposals.

id: cond-mat/0403348
title: Short-Time Decoherence for General System-Environment Interactions
authors: Denis Tolkunov, Vladimir Privman
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, article 062309, 7 pages (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403348
abstract: Short time approximation is developed for system-environmental bath mode interactions involving a general non-Hermitian system operator $\Lambda$, and its conjugate, $\Lambda^\dagger$, in order to evaluate onset of decoherence at low temperatures in quantum systems interacting with environment. The developed approach is complementary to Markovian approximations and appropriate for evaluation of quantum computing schemes. Example of a spin system coupled to a bosonic heat bath via $\Lambda \propto \sigma_-$ is worked out in detail.

id: cond-mat/0403399
title: Quantum dynamics under coherent and incoherent effects of a spin bath in the Keldysh formalism: application to a spin swapping operation
authors: Ernesto P. Danieli, Horacio M. Pastawski, Gonzalo A. Alvarez
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, final form
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 402 (2005) 88-95
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403399
abstract: We develop the Keldysh formalism for the polarization dynamics of an open spin system. We apply it to the swapping between two qubit states in a model describing an NMR cross-polarization experiment. The environment is a set of interacting spins. For fast fluctuations in the environment, the analytical solution shows effects missed by the secular approximation of the Quantum Master Equation for the density matrix: a frequency decrease depending on the system-environment escape rate and the quantum quadratic short time behavior. Considering full memory of the bath correlations yields a progressive change of the swapping frequency.

id: cond-mat/0403444
title: Chirality in Quantum Computation with Spin Cluster Qubits
authors: V.W. Scarola, K. Park, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 120503 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403444
abstract: We study corrections to the Heisenberg interaction between several lateral, single-electron quantum dots. We show, using exact diagonalization, that three-body chiral terms couple triangular configurations to external sources of flux rather strongly. The chiral corrections impact single qubit encodings utilizing loops of three or more Heisenberg coupled quantum dots.

id: cond-mat/0403449
title: Electrical readout of a spin qubit without double occupancy
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, A. R. Hamilton, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, R. G. Clark
comments: Replaced with (approximately) published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 113310 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403449
abstract: We identify a novel mechanism to read out a single solid-state electron spin using an all-electrical spin-to-charge conversion in a closed system. Our scheme uses three donors and two electron spins, one spin is the qubit, the other is a reference. The population in the third, originally ionized, donor is monitored with an electrometer. Energy-dependent tunnelling of the reference spin to the ionized donor is used to determine the state of the qubit. In contrast to previous methods [e.g., B.E. Kane, Nature (London), \textbf{393}, 133 (1998)] we avoid double electron occupancy of any site within the system, thereby eliminating the possibility of unwanted electron loss from the system. The single spin readout scheme described here is applicable to both electron and nuclear spin based quantum computer architectures.

id: cond-mat/0403510
title: Models of Short-Time Qubit Decoherence
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Vladimir Privman
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc. SPIE 5436, 172-186 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403510
abstract: We compare approaches to evaluation of decoherence at low temperatures in two-state quantum systems weakly coupled to the environment. By analyzing an exactly solvable model, we demonstrate that a non-Markovian approximation scheme yields good quality estimates of the reduced density matrix for time scales appropriate for evaluation of quantum computing designs.

id: cond-mat/0403612
title: Ultracold atomic Fermi-Bose mixtures in bichromatic optical dipole traps: a novel route to study fermion superfluidity
authors: R. Onofrio, C. Presilla
comments: 
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics 115, 57 (2004); Special issue in honor of Gianni Jona-Lasinio
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403612
abstract: The study of low density, ultracold atomic Fermi gases is a promising avenue to understand fermion superfluidity from first principles. One technique currently used to bring Fermi gases in the degenerate regime is sympathetic cooling through a reservoir made of an ultracold Bose gas. We discuss a proposal for trapping and cooling of two-species Fermi-Bose mixtures into optical dipole traps made from combinations of laser beams having two different wavelengths. In these bichromatic traps it is possible, by a proper choice of the relative laser powers, to selectively trap the two species in such a way that fermions experience a stronger confinement than bosons. As a consequence, a deep Fermi degeneracy can be reached having at the same time a softer degenerate regime for the Bose gas. This leads to an increase in the sympathetic cooling efficiency and allows for higher precision thermometry of the Fermi-Bose mixture.

id: cond-mat/0403678
title: Fully polarized states and decoherence
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure. To appear in "Progress in Ferromagnetism Research" to be published by Nova Science Publisher (New York)
journal: Progress in Ferromagnetism Research, V. N. Murray (Ed.), pp. 1-18, (Nova Science Publisher, Hauppage NY, 2005), ISBN 1-59454-335-6
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403678
abstract: The aim of this review is to show how ``ferromagnetic'' states, that is, states having a fully polarization, can produce intrinsic decoherence by unitary evolution. This effect can give an understanding of recent experiments on mesoscopic devices as quantum point contacts showing the 0.7 conductance anomaly and the wide number of data about saturation of dephasing time observed at very low temperatures, as a fully polarized two dimensional electron gas. But similar effects can be seen in different area of physics as for example the Dicke model describing the interaction of two-level systems with a radiation mode. In this case one can show that decoherence is intrinsic and remove a Schr\"odinger cat state leaving a single coherent state, collapsing the wave function in the thermodynamic limit. So, saturation of dephasing time at low temperatures in mesoscopic devices can be understood by a fully polarized two dimensional electron gas that, by an exchange model, can be reduced to a generalized form of the Dicke Hamiltonian and where the quasiparticles are spin excitations interacting with magnons. In this way, one can see that several experiments on nanowires and quantum dots can be satisfactorily explained. The existence of intrinsic decoherence in the thermodynamic limit could have deep implications in fundamental problems like quantum measurement and irreversibility. Recent experiments with cavities with a large number of photons and with nuclear magnetic resonance in organic molecular crystals give a first strong support to this view.

id: cond-mat/0403692
title: Bell inequalities for random fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 18 pages; 1 figure; v4: Essentially the published version; extensive improvements. v3: Better description of the relationship between classical random fields and quantum fields; better description of random field models. More extensive references. v2: Abstract and introduction clarified
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 7441-7456
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0403692
abstract: The assumptions required for the derivation of Bell inequalities are not usually satisfied for random fields in which there are any thermal or quantum fluctuations, in contrast to the general satisfaction of the assumptions for classical two point particle models. Classical random field models that explicitly include the effects of quantum fluctuations on measurement are possible for experiments that violate Bell inequalities.

id: gr-qc/0403037
title: Geometric phase shift for detection of gravitational radiation
authors: N V Mitskievich, A I Nesterov
comments: LaTeX2e, 12 pp
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 35 (1996) 2645-2659
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0403037
abstract: An effect of geometrical phase shift is predicted for a light beam propagating in the field of a gravitational wave. Gravitational radiation detection experiments are proposed using this new effect, the corresponding estimates being given.

id: gr-qc/0403056
title: General Relativity and Quantum Jumps: The Existence of Nondiffeomorphic Solutions to the Cauchy Problem in Nonempty Spacetime and Quantum Jumps as a Provider of a Canonical Spacetime Structure
authors: Vladimir S. Mashkevich
comments: 13 pages, LATEX 2e
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0403056
abstract: It is shown that in spite of a generally accepted concept, there exist nondiffeomorphic solutions to the Cauchy problem in nonempty spacetime, which implies the necessity for canonical complementary conditions. It is nonlocal quantum jumps that provide a canonical global structure of spacetime manifold and, by the same token, the canonical complementary conditions.

id: gr-qc/0403057
title: Spacetime Foam, Holographic Principle, and Black Hole Quantum Computers
authors: Y. Jack Ng, H. van Dam
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX; Talk given by Jack Ng, in celebration of Paul Frampton's 60th birthday, at the Coral Gables Conference (in Fort Lauderdale, Florida on December 17, 2003). To appear in the Proceedings of the 2003 Coral Gables Conference
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 1328-1335
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0403057
abstract: Spacetime foam, also known as quantum foam, has its origin in quantum fluctuations of spacetime. Arguably it is the source of the holographic principle, which severely limits how densely information can be packed in space. Its physics is also intimately linked to that of black holes and computation. In particular, the same underlying physics is shown to govern the computational power of black hole quantum computers.

id: gr-qc/0403085
title: The Random Walk in Generalized Quantum Theory
authors: Xavier Martin, Denjoe O'Connor, R.D. Sorkin
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 024029
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0403085
abstract: One can view quantum mechanics as a generalization of classical probability theory that provides for pairwise interference among alternatives. Adopting this perspective, we ``quantize'' the classical random walk by finding, subject to a certain condition of ``strong positivity'', the most general Markovian, translationally invariant ``decoherence functional'' with nearest neighbor transitions.

id: hep-th/0403048
title: Global Theory of Quantum Boundary Conditions and Topology Change
authors: M. Asorey, A. Ibort, G. Marmo
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures, harvmac
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 1001-1026
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403048
abstract: We analyze the global theory of boundary conditions for a constrained quantum system with classical configuration space a compact Riemannian manifold $M$ with regular boundary $\Gamma=\partial M$. The space $\CM$ of self-adjoint extensions of the covariant Laplacian on $M$ is shown to have interesting geometrical and topological properties which are related to the different topological closures of $M$. In this sense, the change of topology of $M$ is connected with the non-trivial structure of $\CM$. The space $\CM$ itself can be identified with the unitary group $\CU(L^2(\Gamma,\C^N))$ of the Hilbert space of boundary data $L^2(\Gamma,\C^N)$. A particularly interesting family of boundary conditions, identified as the set of unitary operators which are singular under the Cayley transform, $\CC_-\cap \CC_+$ (the Cayley manifold), turns out to play a relevant role in topology change phenomena. The singularity of the Cayley transform implies that some energy levels, usually associated with edge states, acquire an infinity energy when by an adiabatic change the boundary condition reaches the Cayley submanifold $\CC_-$. In this sense topological transitions require an infinite amount of quantum energy to occur, although the description of the topological transition in the space $\CM$ is smooth. This fact has relevant implications in string theory for possible scenarios with joint descriptions of open and closed strings. In the particular case of elliptic self--adjoint boundary conditions, the space $\CC_-$ can be identified with a Lagrangian submanifold of the infinite dimensional Grassmannian. The corresponding Cayley manifold $\CC_-$ is dual of the Maslov class of $\CM$.

id: hep-th/0403070
title: Towards the Quantum Electrodynamics on the Poincare Group
authors: V. V. Varlamov
comments: 69 pages, LaTeX2e, to appear in "Progress in Mathematical Physics" (Nova Science Publishers, New York)
journal: New Topics in Mathematical Physics Research (Ed. C.V. Benton) New York. - Nova Science Publishers, 2006. - P.109-179.
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403070
abstract: A general scheme of construction and analysis of physical fields on the various homogeneous spaces of the Poincar\'{e} group is presented. Different parametrizations of the field functions and harmonic analysis on the homogeneous spaces are studied. It is shown that a direct product of Minkowski spacetime and two-dimensional complex sphere is the most suitable homogeneous space for the subsequent physical applications. The Lagrangian formalism and field equations on the Poincar\'{e} group are considered. A boundary value problem for the relativistically invariant system is defined. General solutions of this problem are expressed via an expansion in hyperspherical harmonics on the complex two-sphere. A physical sense of the boundary conditions is discussed. The boundary value problems of the same type are studied for the Dirac and Maxwell fields. In turn, general solutions of these problems are expressed via convergent Fourier type series. Field operators, quantizations, causal commutators and vacuum expectation values of time ordered products of the field operators are defined for the Dirac and Maxwell fields, respectively. Interacting fields and inclusion of discrete symmetries into the framework of quantum electrodynamics on the Poincar\'{e} group are discussed.

id: hep-th/0403122
title: Non-Gaussian Path Integration in Self-Interacting Scalar Field Theories
authors: Ali Kaya
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, revtex4, v4: minor changes, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 085001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403122
abstract: In self-interacting scalar field theories kinetic expansion is an alternative way of calculating the generating functional for Green's functions where the zeroth order non-Gaussian path integral becomes diagonal in x-space and reduces to the product of an ordinary integral at each point which can be evaluated exactly. We discuss how to deal with such functional integrals and propose a new perturbative expansion scheme which combines the elements of the kinetic expansion with that of usual perturbation theory. It is then shown that, when the cutoff dependent bare parameters in the potential are fixed to have a well defined non-Gaussian path integral without the kinetic term, the theory becomes trivial in the continuum limit.

id: hep-th/0403142
title: Entropy, holography and the second law
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: 4 pages, RevTex 4, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 051303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403142
abstract: The geometric entropy in quantum field theory is not a Lorentz scalar and has no invariant meaning, while the black hole entropy is invariant. Renormalization of entropy and energy for reduced density matrices may lead to the negative free energy even if no boundary conditions are imposed. Presence of particles outside the horizon of a uniformly accelerated observer prevents the description in terms of a single Unruh temperature.

id: hep-th/0403146
title: On infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group and Dirac monopole
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, F. Aceves de la Cruz
comments: JHEP style, 16 pages. Submitted to JHEP
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403146
abstract: The Dirac monopole problem is studied in details within the framework of infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group, and a consistent pointlike monopole theory with an arbitrary magnetic charge is deduced.

id: hep-th/0403212
title: Axial Stringy System of the Kerr Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 28 p., 5 figures, latex, paper in honor of the 100th anniversary of Dmitrii Ivanenko birthday, submitted to the jubilee issue of the journal Gravitation and Cosmology, v.2 misprints and stylistic corrections, acknowledgements and references added
journal: Grav.Cosmol. 10 (2004) 50
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403212
abstract: The structure of classical spinning particle based on the Kerr-Newman black hole (BH) solution is investigated. For large angular momentum, $|a|>>m$, the BH horizons disappear exposing a naked ringlike source which is a circular relativistic string. It was shown recently that electromagnetic excitations of this string lead to the appearance of an extra axial stringy system which consists of two half-infinite strings of opposite chirality. In this paper we consider the relation of this stringy system to the Dirac equation. We also show that the axial strings are the Witten superconducting strings and describe their structure by the Higgs field model where the Higgs condensate is used to regularize axial singularity. We argue that this axial stringy system may play the role of a classical carrier of the wave function.

id: hep-th/0403222
title: Reconsidering the quantization of electrodynamics with boundary conditions and some measurable consequences
authors: M. Bordag
comments: 22 pages, basic statement weakened, conclusions changed, misprints corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D70:085010,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0403222
abstract: We show that the commonly known conductor boundary conditions $E_{||}=B_\perp=0$ can be realized in two ways which we call 'thick' and 'thin' conductor. The 'thick' conductor is the commonly known approach and includes a Neumann condition on the normal component $E_\perp$ of the electric field whereas for a 'thin' conductor $E_\perp$ remains without boundary condition. Both types describe different physics already on the classical level where a 'thin' conductor allows for an interaction between the normal components of currents on both sides. On quantum level different forces between a conductor and a single electron or a neutral atom result. For instance, the Casimir-Polder force for a 'thin' conductor is by about 13% smaller than for a 'thick' one.

id: math-ph/0403019
title: Lightlike infinity in GCA models of Spacetime
authors: F.M.C.Witte
comments: 12 pages
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 9965-9973
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403019
abstract: This paper discusses a 7 dimensional conformal geometric algebra model for spacetime based on the notion that spacelike and timelike infinities are distinct. I show how naturally of the dimensions represents the lightlike infinity and appears redundant in computations, yet usefull in interpretation

id: math-ph/0403030
title: Semiclassical propagation of coherent states with spin-orbit interaction
authors: Jens Bolte, Rainer Glaser
comments: 
journal: Ann. H. Poincare 6 (2005) 625-656
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403030
abstract: We study semiclassical approximations to the time evolution of coherent states for general spin-orbit coupling problems in two different semiclassical scenarios: The limit \hbar to zero is first taken with fixed spin quantum number s and then with \hbar*s held constant. In these two cases different classical spin-orbit dynamics emerge. We prove that a coherent state propagated with a suitable classical dynamics approximates the quantum time evolution up to an error of size \sqrt{\hbar} and identify an Ehrenfest time scale. Subsequently an improvement of the semiclassical error to an arbitray order \hbar^{N/2} is achieved by a suitable deformation of the state that is propagated classically.

id: math-ph/0403035
title: Quantum Dynamical Entropies and Complexity in Dynamical Systems
authors: Valerio Cappellini
comments: Ph.D. thesis, LaTeX, 138 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403035
abstract: We analyze the behaviour of two quantum dynamical entropies in connection with the classical limit. Using strongly chaotic classical dynamical systems as models (Arnold Cat Maps and Sawtooth Maps), we also propose a discretization procedure that resembles quantization; even in this case, studies of quantum dynamical entropy production are carried out and the connection with the continuous limit is explored. In both case (quantization and discretization) the entropy production converge to the Kolmogorov-Sinai invariant on time-scales that are logarithmic in the quantization (discretization) parameter.

id: math-ph/0403036
title: The Multidimensional Berry-Hannay Model
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: 11 pages, preprint
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403036
abstract: The aim of this paper is to construct the Berry-Hannay model of quantum mechanics on a 2n-dimensional symplectic torus. We construct a simultaneous quantization of the algebra $\cal A$ of functions on the torus and the linear symplectic group $\G = \Sp(\mathrm{2n},\Z)$. In the construction we use the quantum torus $\A$, which is a deformation of $\cal A$, together with a $\G$-action on it. We obtain the quantization via the action of $\G$ on the set of equivalence classes of irreducible representations of $\A$. For $\h \in \Q$ this action has a unique fixed point. This gives a canonical projective equivariant quantization. There exists a Hilbert space on which both $\G$ and $\A$ act in a compatible way.

id: math-ph/0403046
title: The Dirac Equation and General Linear Transformations of Coordinate Systems
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX 32 pages, 6 eps figures, v2 minor correction, eps reduced
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403046
abstract: The spinor representation of the Lorentz group does not accept simple generalization with the group GL(4,R) of general linear coordinate transformations. The Dirac equation may be written for an arbitrary choice of a coordinate system and a metric, but the covariant linear transformations of the four-component Dirac spinor exist only for isometries. For usual diagonal Minkowski metric the isometry is the Lorentz transformation. On the other hand, it is possible to define the Dirac operator on the space of anti-symmetric (exterior) forms, and in such a case the equation is covariant for an arbitrary general linear transformation. The space of the exterior forms is 16-dimensional, but usual Dirac equation is defined for four-dimensional complex space of Dirac spinors. Using suggested analogy, in present paper is discussed possibility to consider the space of Dirac spinors as some "subsystem" of a bigger space, where the group GL(4,R) of general relativity acts in a covariant way. For such purposes in this article is considered both Grassmann algebra of complex anti-symmetric forms and Clifford algebra of Dirac matrices. Both algebras have same dimension as linear spaces, but different structure of multiplication. The underlying sixteen-dimensional linear space also may be considered either as space of complex 4 x 4 matrices, or as space of states of two particles: the initial Dirac spinor and some auxiliary system. It is shown also, that such approach is in good agreement with well known idea to consider Dirac spinor as some ideal of Clifford algebra. Some other possible implications of given model are also discussed.

id: math-ph/0403047
title: Deformed algebras, position-dependent effective masses and curved spaces: An exactly solvable Coulomb problem
authors: C. Quesne, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 22 pages, no figure. Archive version is already official. Published by JPA at this http URL
journal: J.Phys.A37:4267-4281,2004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403047
abstract: We show that there exist some intimate connections between three unconventional Schr\"odinger equations based on the use of deformed canonical commutation relations, of a position-dependent effective mass or of a curved space, respectively. This occurs whenever a specific relation between the deforming function, the position-dependent mass and the (diagonal) metric tensor holds true. We illustrate these three equivalent approaches by considering a new Coulomb problem and solving it by means of supersymmetric quantum mechanical and shape invariance techniques. We show that in contrast with the conventional Coulomb problem, the new one gives rise to only a finite number of bound states.

id: math-ph/0403051
title: Cyclic Identities Involving Ratios of Jacobi Theta Functions
authors: Avinash Khare, Arul Lakshminarayan, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 23 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403051
abstract: Identities involving cyclic sums of terms composed from Jacobi elliptic functions evaluated at $p$ equally shifted points were recently found. The purpose of this paper is to re-express these cyclic identities in terms of ratios of Jacobi theta functions, since many physicists prefer using Jacobi theta functions rather than Jacobi elliptic functions.

id: math-ph/0403057
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Finite Projective Planes
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat, Haret Rosu
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. 6 (2004) L19-L20
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0403057
abstract: It is conjectured that the question of the existence of projective planes whose order is not a power of prime is intimately linked with the problem whether there exists a set of d+1 mutually unbiased bases in a d-dimensional Hilbert space if d differs from a power of prime.

id: math/0403341
title: Quantum Yang-Baxter equation, arbitrary gradings and exchange Hecke braidings
authors: W. Marcinek
comments: 14 pages, AmSLaTeX2e, see W. Marcinek (1952-2003) Memorial Page at this http URL
journal: Published in W. Marcinek Memorial Volume of Kharkov University Journal Vestnik KNU, ser. "Nuclei, particles and fields". - 2003. - V. 601. - N 2(22). - p. 60--66
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0403341
abstract: Generalization of the quantum Yang-Baxter equation solutions to an arbitrary grading is studied. The noncommutative differential calculi corresponding to such solutions is considered. The connection with the ordinary and supersymmetric solutions of the quantum Yang-Baxter equation is given.

id: math/0403342
title: Particles of generalized statistics, quantum logic and categories
authors: W. Marcinek
comments: 26 pages, AmSLaTeX2e, see W. Marcinek (1952-2003) Memorial Page at this http URL
journal: Published in W. Marcinek Memorial Volume of Kharkov Univ. Journal Vestnik KNU, 2003, V. 601, N2(22), p. 135--146
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0403342
abstract: A collection of brilliant and original unfinished ideas by Wladyslaw Marcinek (1952-2003) in particle interactions, categorical approach to generalized statistics, qubits and quantum logic, entwined operators, cobordisms and noncommutative Fock space.

id: math/0403343
title: Braid semistatistics and doubly regular R-matrix
authors: S. Duplij, W. Marcinek
comments: 13 pages, AmSLaTeX2e, see W. Marcinek (1952-2003) Memorial Page at this http URL
journal: Published in W. Marcinek Memorial Volume of Kharkov University Journal Vestnik KNU, ser. "Nuclei, particles and fields". - 2003. - V. 601. - N 2(22). - p. 75-80
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0403343
abstract: We introduce "noninvertible" generalization of statistics - semistatistics replacing condition when double exchanging gives identity to "regularity" condition. Then in categorical language we correspondingly generalize braidings and the quantum Yang-Baxter equation. We define the doubly regular R-matrix and introduce obstructed regular bialgebras.

id: nlin/0403018
title: Classical projected phase space density of billiards and its relation to the quantum Neumann spectrum
authors: Debabrata Biswas
comments: revtex, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, 93 (2004) 204102
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0403018
abstract: A comparison of classical and quantum evolution usually involves a quasi-probability distribution as a quantum analogue of the classical phase space distribution. In an alternate approach that we adopt here, the classical density is projected on to the configuration space. We show that for billiards, the eigenfunctions of the coarse-grained projected classical evolution operator are identical to a first approximation to the quantum Neumann eigenfunctions. However, even though there exists a correspondence between the respective eigenvalues, their time evolutions differ. This is demonstrated numerically for the stadium and lemon shaped billiards.

id: nlin/0403038
title: Quantum chaos and the double-slit experiment
authors: Giulio Casati, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0403038
abstract: We report on the numerical simulation of the double-slit experiment, where the initial wave-packet is bounded inside a billiard domain with perfectly reflecting walls. If the shape of the billiard is such that the classical ray dynamics is regular, we obtain interference fringes whose visibility can be controlled by changing the parameters of the initial state. However, if we modify the shape of the billiard thus rendering classical (ray) dynamics fully chaotic, the interference fringes disappear and the intensity on the screen becomes the (classical) sum of intensities for the two corresponding one-slit experiments. Thus we show a clear and fundamental example in which transition to chaotic motion in a deterministic classical system, in absence of any external noise, leads to a profound modification in the quantum behaviour.

id: physics/0403035
title: Parametric instability of linear oscillators with colored time-dependent noise
authors: F.M.Izrailev, V.Dossetti-Romero, A.A.Krokhin, L.Tessieri
comments: RevTex, 9 pages, no figures
journal: Proceedings of the SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering; 2004; vol.5471, no.1, p.125-34
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0403035
abstract: The goal of this paper is to discuss the link between the quantum phenomenon of Anderson localization on the one hand, and the parametric instability of classical linear oscillators with stochastic frequency on the other. We show that these two problems are closely related to each other. On the base of analytical and numerical results we predict under which conditions colored parametric noise suppresses the instability of linear oscillators.

id: physics/0403102
title: Entanglement and inequality of forward and reversed processes as a physical base of nonlinear phenomena in optics
authors: V.A.Kuz'menko
comments: 3 pages LaTeX2e, 1 PS figure
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0403102
abstract: Connection between the concept of entanglement and origin of nonlinear phenomena in optics is discussed.

id: physics/0403138
title: Diffraction effects on light-atomic ensemble quantum interface
authors: J.H. Mueller, P. Petrov, D. Oblak, C.L. Garrido Alzar, S.R. de Echaniz, E.S. Polzik
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0403138
abstract: We present a simple method to include the effects of diffraction into the description of a light-atomic ensemble quantum interface in the context of collective variables. Carrying out a scattering calculation we single out the purely geometrical effect. We apply our method to the experimentally relevant case of Gaussian shaped atomic samples stored in single beam optical dipole traps and probed by a Gaussian beam. We derive analytical scaling relations for the effect of the interaction geometry and compare our findings to results from 1-dimensional models of light propagation.

id: q-bio/0403036
title: The Triplet Genetic Code had a Doublet Predecessor
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 10 pages (v2) Expanded to include additional features, including likely relation to the operational code of the tRNA-acceptor stem. Version to be published in Journal of Theoretical Biology
journal: Journal of Theoretical Biology 233 (2005) 527-532
subjects: Genomics (q-bio.GN); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0403036
abstract: Information theoretic analysis of genetic languages indicates that the naturally occurring 20 amino acids and the triplet genetic code arose by duplication of 10 amino acids of class-II and a doublet genetic code having codons NNY and anticodons $\overleftarrow{\rm GNN}$. Evidence for this scenario is presented based on the properties of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, amino acids and nucleotide bases.

