id: quant-ph/0404043
title: Complementarity and quantum walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, RevTex, 2 figures; v2 adds references; v3 updated to incorporate feedback and updated references; v4 substantially expanded to clarify presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404043
abstract: We show that quantum walks interpolate between a coherent `wave walk' and a random walk depending on how strongly the walker's coin state is measured; i.e., the quantum walk exhibits the quintessentially quantum property of complementarity, which is manifested as a trade-off between knowledge of which path the walker takes vs the sharpness of the interference pattern. A physical implementation of a quantum walk (the quantum quincunx) should thus have an identifiable walker and the capacity to demonstrate the interpolation between wave walk and random walk depending on the strength of measurement.

id: quant-ph/0404075
title: Small Pseudo-Random Families of Matrices: Derandomizing Approximate Quantum Encryption
authors: Andris Ambainis, Adam Smith
comments: 11 pages, no figures. In Proceedings of RANDOM 2004, Cambridge, MA, August 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404075
abstract: A quantum encryption scheme (also called private quantum channel, or state randomization protocol) is a one-time pad for quantum messages. If two parties share a classical random string, one of them can transmit a quantum state to the other so that an eavesdropper gets little or no information about the state being transmitted. Perfect encryption schemes leak no information at all about the message. Approximate encryption schemes leak a non-zero (though small) amount of information but require a shorter shared random key. Approximate schemes with short keys have been shown to have a number of applications in quantum cryptography and information theory. This paper provides the first deterministic, polynomial-time constructions of quantum approximate encryption schemes with short keys. Previous constructions (quant-ph/0307104) are probabilistic--that is, they show that if the operators used for encryption are chosen at random, then with high probability the resulting protocol will be a secure encryption scheme. Moreover, the resulting protocol descriptions are exponentially long. Our protocols use keys of the same length as (or better length than) the probabilistic constructions; to encrypt $n$ qubits approximately, one needs $n+o(n)$ bits of shared key. An additional contribution of this paper is a connection between classical combinatorial derandomization and constructions of pseudo-random matrix families in a continuous space.

id: quant-ph/0404132
title: Unified derivations of measurement-based schemes for quantum computation
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie W. Leung, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404132
abstract: We present unified, systematic derivations of schemes in the two known measurement-based models of quantum computation. The first model (introduced by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Lett., 86, 5188 (2001)]) uses a fixed entangled state, adaptive measurements on single qubits, and feedforward of the measurement results. The second model (proposed by Nielsen [Phys. Lett. A, 308, 96 (2003)] and further simplified by Leung [Int. J. Quant. Inf., 2, 33 (2004)]) uses adaptive two-qubit measurements that can be applied to arbitrary pairs of qubits, and feedforward of the measurement results. The underlying principle of our derivations is a variant of teleportation introduced by Zhou, Leung, and Chuang [Phys. Rev. A, 62, 052316 (2000)]. Our derivations unify these two measurement-based models of quantum computation and provide significantly simpler schemes.

id: quant-ph/0404152
title: Optimal state encoding for quantum walks and quantum communication over spin systems
authors: Henry L. Haselgrove
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, 7 EPS figures. Corrected an error in the definition and interpretation of C_B(T)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062326 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404152
abstract: Recent work has shown that a simple chain of interacting spins can be used as a medium for high-fidelity quantum communication. We describe a scheme for quantum communication using a spin system that conserves z-spin, but otherwise is arbitrary. The sender and receiver are assumed to directly control several spins each, with the sender encoding the message state onto the larger state-space of her control spins. We show how to find the encoding that maximises the fidelity of communication, using a simple method based on the singular-value decomposition. Also, we show that this solution can be used to increase communication fidelity in a rather different circumstance: where no encoding of initial states is used, but where the sender and receiver control exactly two spins each and vary the interactions on those spins over time. The methods presented are computationally efficient, and numerical examples are given for systems having up to 300 spins.

