id: quant-ph/0404001
title: Quantum and Thermal Corrections to a Classically Chaotic Dissipative System
authors: M. Rodriguez-Achach, G. Perez, H. Cerdeira
comments: To be published in Stochastics and Dynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404001
abstract: The effects of quantum and thermal corrections on the dynamics of a damped nonlinearly kicked harmonic oscillator are studied. This is done via the Quantum Langevin Equation formalism working on a truncated moment expansion of the density matrix of the system. We find that the type of bifurcations present in the system change upon quantization and that chaotic behavior appears for values of the nonlinear parameter that are far below the chaotic threshold for the classical model. Upon increase of temperature or Planck's constant, bifurcation points and chaotic thresholds are shifted towards lower values of the nonlinear parameter. There is also an anomalous reverse behavior for low values of the cutoff frequency.

id: quant-ph/0404002
title: Fractal atom-photon dynamics in a cavity
authors: S.V. Prants
comments: Lecture notes in NATO Advanced Study Institute Summer School on Chaotic Dynamics and Transport (Aug. 18-30, 2003, Cargese, Corsica, France)
journal: S.V. Prants. Hamiltonian chaos and fractals in cavity quantum electrodynamics. In: Chaotic Dynamics and Transport in Classical and Quantum Systems. NATO Science Series II, Vol. 182 Kluwer, Dordrecht (2005) P.349-363.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404002
abstract: Nonlinear dynamics in the fundamental interaction between a two-level atom with recoil and a quantized radiation field in a high-quality cavity is studied. We consider the strongly coupled atom-field system as a quantum-classical hybrid with dynamically coupled quantum and classical degrees of freedom. We show that, even in the absence of any other interaction with environment, the interaction of the purely quantum atom-field system with the external atomic degree of freedom provides the emergence of classical dynamical chaos from quantum electrodynamics. Atomic fractals with self-similar intermittency of smooth and unresolved structures are found in the exit-time scattering function. Tiny interplay between all the degrees of freedom is responsible for dynamical trapping of atoms even in a very short microcavity. Gedanken experiments are proposed to detect manifestations of atomic fractals in cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0404003
title: Fault Testing for Reversible Circuits
authors: Ketan N. Patel, John P. Hayes, Igor L. Markov
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures. to appear in IEEE Trans. on CAD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404003
abstract: Applications of reversible circuits can be found in the fields of low-power computation, cryptography, communications, digital signal processing, and the emerging field of quantum computation. Furthermore, prototype circuits for low-power applications are already being fabricated in CMOS. Regardless of the eventual technology adopted, testing is sure to be an important component in any robust implementation. We consider the test set generation problem. Reversibility affects the testing problem in fundamental ways, making it significantly simpler than for the irreversible case. For example, we show that any test set that detects all single stuck-at faults in a reversible circuit also detects all multiple stuck-at faults. We present efficient test set constructions for the standard stuck-at fault model as well as the usually intractable cell-fault model. We also give a practical test set generation algorithm, based on an integer linear programming formulation, that yields test sets approximately half the size of those produced by conventional ATPG.

id: quant-ph/0404004
title: Resources required for exact remote state preparation
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404004
abstract: It has been shown [M.-Y. Ye, Y.-S. Zhang, and G.-C. Guo, Phys. Rev. A 69, 022310 (2004)] that it is possible to perform exactly faithful remote state preparation using finite classical communication and any entangled state with maximal Schmidt number. Here we give an explicit procedure for performing this remote state preparation. We show that the classical communication required for this scheme is close to optimal for remote state preparation schemes of this type. In addition we prove that it is necessary that the resource state have maximal Schmidt number.

id: quant-ph/0404005
title: Minimum output entropy of bosonic channels: a conjecture
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Saikat Guha, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404005
abstract: The von Neumann entropy at the output of a bosonic channel with thermal noise is analyzed. Coherent-state inputs are conjectured to minimize this output entropy. Physical and mathematical evidence in support of the conjecture is provided. A stronger conjecture--that output states resulting from coherent-state inputs majorize the output states from other inputs--is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0404006
title: Representing multiqubit unitary evolutions: spin coherences and infinitesimal coherences
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: significantly rewritten, 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404006
abstract: For the tensor of coherences parametrization of a multiqubit density operator, we provide an explicit formulation of the corresponding unitary dynamics at infinitesimal level. The main advantage of this formalism (clearly reminiscent of the idea of ``coherences'' and ``coupling Hamiltonians'' of spin systems) is that the pattern of correlation between qubits and the pattern of infinitesimal correlation are highlighted simultaneously and can be used constructively for qubit manipulation. For example, it allows to compute explicitly a Rodrigues' formula for the one-parameter orbits of nonlocal Hamiltonians. The result is easily generalizable to orbits of Cartan subalgebras and allows to write the Cartan decomposition of unitary propagators as a linear action.

id: quant-ph/0404007
title: Two analytic continuations of the Lippmann-Schwinger eigenfunctions
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: Contribution to the Lisbon conference on time asymmetry and resonances, July 2003; 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404007
abstract: We first present two possible analytic continuations of the Lippmann-Schwinger eigenfunctions to the second sheet of the Riemann surface, and then we compare the different Gamow vectors that are obtained through each analytic continuation.

id: quant-ph/0404008
title: Qualitative aspects of entanglement in the Jaynes-Cummings model with an external quantum field
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Ricardo J. Missori, Jose A. Roversi
comments: 15 pages and 21 figures
journal: J.Phys.A36:12275,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404008
abstract: We present a mathematical procedure which leads us to obtain analytical solutions for the atomic inversion and Wigner function in the framework of the Jaynes-Cummings model with an external quantum field, for any kinds of cavity and driving fields. Such solutions are expressed in the integral form, with their integrands having a commom term that describes the product of the Glauber-Sudarshan quasiprobability distribution functions for each field, and a kernel responsible for the entanglement. Considering two specific initial states of the tripartite system, the formalism is then applied to calculate the atomic inversion and Wigner function where, in particular, we show how the detuning and amplitude of the driving field modify the entanglement. In addition, we also obtain the correct

id: quant-ph/0404009
title: Understanding Heisenberg's 'Magical' Paper of July 1925: a New Look at the Calculational Details
authors: Ian J. R. Aitchison, David A. MacManus, Thomas M. Snyder
comments: 24 pages, no figures, Latex, submitted to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404009
abstract: In July 1925 Heisenberg published a paper [Z. Phys. 33, 879-893 (1925)] which ended the period of `the Old Quantum Theory' and ushered in the new era of Quantum Mechanics. This epoch-making paper is generally regarded as being difficult to follow, perhaps partly because Heisenberg provided few clues as to how he arrived at the results which he reported. Here we give details of calculations of the type which, we suggest, Heisenberg may have performed. We take as a specific example one of the anharmonic oscillator problems considered by Heisenberg, and use our reconstruction of his approach to solve it up to second order in perturbation theory. We emphasize that the results are precisely those obtained in standard quantum mechanics, and suggest that some discussion of the approach - based on the direct computation of transition amplitudes - could usefully be included in undergraduate courses in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0404010
title: Continuous-variable quantum non-demolishing interaction at a distance
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404010
abstract: A feasible setup of continuous-variable (CV) quantum non-demolishing (QND) interaction at a distance is proposed. If two distant experimentalists are able to locally perform identical QND interactions then the proposed realization requires only a single quantum channel and classical communication between them. A possible implementation of the proposed setup in recent quantum optical laboratories is discussed and an influence of Gaussian noise in the quantum channel on a quality of the implementation is analyzed. An efficient realization of the QND interaction at a distance can be a basic step to possible distributed quantum CV experiments between the distant laboratories.

id: quant-ph/0404011
title: The Statistical Interpretation of Entangled States
authors: B. C. Sanctuary
comments: 19 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404011
abstract: Entangled EPR spin pairs can be treated using the statistical ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics. As such the singlet state results from an ensemble of spin pairs each with an arbitrary axis of quantization. This axis acts as a quantum mechanical hidden variable. If the spins lose coherence they disentangle into a mixed state. Whether or not the EPR spin pairs retain entanglement or disentangle, however, the statistical ensemble interpretation resolves the EPR paradox and gives a mechanism for quantum "teleportation" without the need for instantaneous action-at-a-distance.

id: quant-ph/0404012
title: Time as an operator/observable in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: G. E. Hahne
comments: 31 pages, no figures. Differs from published version by minor corrections and additions, and two citations
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 7149--7172
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404012
abstract: The nonrelativistic Schroedinger equation for motion of a structureless particle in four-dimensional space-time entails a well-known expression for the conserved four-vector field of local probability density and current that are associated with a quantum state solution to the equation. Under the physical assumption that each spatial, as well as the temporal, component of this current is observable, the position in time becomes an operator and an observable in that the weighted average value of the time of the particle's crossing of a complete hyperplane can be simply defined: ... When the space-time coordinates are (t,x,y,z), the paper analyzes in detail the case that the hyperplane is of the type z=constant. Particles can cross such a hyperplane in either direction, so it proves convenient to introduce an indefinite metric, and correspondingly a sesquilinear inner product with non-Hilbert space structure, for the space of quantum states on such a surface. >... A detailed formalism for computing average crossing times on a z=constant hyperplane, and average dwell times and delay times for a zone of interaction between a pair of z=constant hyperplanes, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0404013
title: A conclusive experiment to throw more light on "light"
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, E. Predazzi
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 328 (2004) 313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404013
abstract: We describe a new realization of Ghose, Home, Agarwal experiment on wave particle duality of light where some limitations of the former experiment, realized by Mizobuchi and Ohtake, are overcome. Our results clearly indicate that wave-particle complementarity must be understood between interference and "whelcher weg" knowledge and not in a more general sense.

id: quant-ph/0404014
title: Deriving Tight Bell Inequalities for 2 Parties with Many 2-valued Observables from Facets of Cut Polytopes
authors: David Avis, Hiroshi Imai, Tsuyoshi Ito, Yuuya Sasaki
comments: 24 pages, LaTeX. Asymmetric setting of observables is added in the introduction, section 5.4 and section 7.2. Some references and typos are corrected. A description on the I_{3422}^2 inequality is corrected in section 5.4 and added to section 5.1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404014
abstract: Relatively few families of Bell inequalities have previously been identified. Some examples are the trivial, CHSH, I_{mm22}, and CGLMP inequalities. This paper presents a large number of new families of tight Bell inequalities for the case of many observables. For example, 44,368,793 inequivalent tight Bell inequalities other than CHSH are obtained for the case of 2 parties each with 10 2-valued observables. This is accomplished by first establishing a relationship between the Bell inequalities and the facets of the cut polytope, a well studied object in polyhedral combinatorics. We then prove a theorem allowing us to derive new facets of cut polytopes from facets of smaller polytopes by a process derived from Fourier-Motzkin elimination, which we call triangular elimination. These new facets in turn give new tight Bell inequalities. We give additional results for projections, liftings, and the complexity of membership testing for the associated Bell polytope.

id: quant-ph/0404015
title: BB84 Quantum Key Distribution System based on Silica-Based Planar Lightwave Circuits
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu, Takaaki Hatanaka, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Vol.43 (2004) No.8B pp.L1109 - L1110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404015
abstract: We constructed an optical interferometer for a Bennett-Brassard quantum key distribution system using integrated optics based on planar lightwave circuit technology, and tested its operation and stability. Experimental results show that this interferometer is useful in implementing a practical quantum key distribution system.

id: quant-ph/0404016
title: Einstein's Boxes
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: Published version
journal: American Journal of Physics, 73 (2), February 2005, pp. 164-176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404016
abstract: At the 1927 Solvay conference, Einstein presented a thought experiment intended to demonstrate the incompleteness of the quantum mechanical description of reality. In the following years, the thought experiment was picked up and modified by Einstein, de Broglie, and several other commentators into a simple scenario involving the splitting in half of the wave function of a single particle in a box. In this paper we collect together several formulations of this thought experiment from the existing literature; analyze and assess it from the point of view of the Einstein-Bohr debates, the EPR dilemma, and Bell's theorem; and generally lobby for Einstein's Boxes taking its rightful place alongside similar but historically better-known quantum mechanical thought experiments such as EPR and Schroedinger's Cat.

id: quant-ph/0404017
title: Quantum Mechanical Properties of Bessel Beams
authors: R. Jauregui, S. Hacyan
comments: 17 pages, no figures. New version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404017
abstract: Bessel beams are studied within the general framework of quantum optics. The two modes of the electromagnetic field are quantized and the basic dynamical operators are identified. The algebra of these operators is analyzed in detail; it is shown that the operators that are usually associated to linear momentum, orbital angular momentum and spin do not satisfy the algebra of the translation and rotation group. In particular, what seems to be the spin is more similar to the helicity. Some physical consequences of these results are examined.

id: quant-ph/0404018
title: Storing and processing optical information with ultra-slow light in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Z. Dutton, L.V. Hau
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404018
abstract: We theoretically explore coherent information transfer between ultra-slow light pulses and Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) and find that storing light pulses in BECs, by switching off the coupling field, allows the coherent condensate dynamics to process optical information. We develop a formalism, applicable in both the weak and strong probe regimes, to analyze such experiments and establish several new results. Investigating examples relevant to Rb-87 experimental parameters we see a variety of novel two-component BEC dynamics occur during the storage, including interference fringes, gentle breathing excitations, and two-component solitons. We find the dynamics when the levels |F=1, M_F=-1> and |F=2, M_F=+1> are well suited to designing controlled processing of the information. By switching the coupling field back on, the processed information is rewritten onto probe pulses which then propagate out as slow light pulses. We calculate the fidelity of information transfer between the atomic and light fields upon the switch-on and subsequent output. The fidelity is affected both by absorption of small length scale features and absorption of regions of the pulse stored near the condensate edge. In the strong probe case, we find that when the oscillator strengths for the two transitions are equal the fidelity is not strongly sensitive to the probe strength, while when they are unequal the fidelity is worse for stronger probes. Applications to distant communication between BECs, squeezed light generation and quantum information are anticipated.

id: quant-ph/0404019
title: Rotational Effects of Twisted Light on Atoms Beyond the Paraxial Approximation
authors: R. Jauregui
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404019
abstract: The transition probability for the emission of a Bessel photon by an atomic system is calculated within first order perturbation theory. We derive a closed expression for the electromagnetic potentials beyond the paraxial approximation that permits a systematic multipole approximation . The matrix elements between center of mass and internal states are evaluated for some specially relevant cases. This permits to clarify the feasibility of observing the rotational effects of twisted light on atoms predicted by the calculations. It is shown that the probability that the internal state of an atom acquires orbital angular momentum from light is, in general, maximum for an atom located at the axis of a Bessel mode. For a Gaussian packet, the relevant parameter is the ratio of the spread of the atomic center of mass wave packet to the transversal wavelength of the photon.

id: quant-ph/0404020
title: New considerations on the separability of very noisy mixed states and implications for NMR quantum computing
authors: J.D. Bulnes, R.S. Sarthour, E.R. de Azevedo, F.A. Bonk, J.C.C. Freitas, A.P. Guimar?es, T.J. Bonagamba, I.S. Oliveira
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404020
abstract: We revise the problem first addressed by Braunstein and co-workers (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 83} (5) (1999) 1054) concerning the separability of very noisy mixed states represented by general density matrices with the form $\rho_\epsilon = (1-\epsilon)M_d+\epsilon\rho_1$. From a detailed numerical analysis, it is shown that: (1) there exist infinite values in the interval taken for the density matrix expansion coefficients, $-1\le c_{\alpha_1,...,\alpha_N}\le 1$, which give rise to {\em non-physical density matrices}, with trace equal to 1, but at least one {\em negative} eigenvalue; (2) there exist entangled matrices outside the predicted entanglement region, and (3) there exist separable matrices inside the same region. It is also shown that the lower and upper bounds of $\epsilon$ depend on the coefficients of the expansion of $\rho_1$ in the Pauli basis. If $\rho_{1}$ is hermitian with trace equal to 1, but is allowed to have {\em negative} eigenvalues, it is shown that $\rho_\epsilon$ can be entangled, even for two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0404021
title: One-dimensional inverse power reflectionless potentials
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: 6 pages, no figures, Standard LaTeX v.2e. Talk in the II Conference on High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics and Accelerator Physics, March 1-5, 2004, Kharkov. Corrections of LaTeX style (a little)
journal: Prob.Atomic Sci.Technol. 5 (2004) 22-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404021
abstract: A condition, at which the one-dimensional inverse power potential becomes reflectionless during propagation through it of a plane wave, is obtained on the basis of SUSY QM methods. A scattering of a particle on spherically symmetric inverse power potential is analysed with taking into account of the reflectionless possibility.

id: quant-ph/0404022
title: Inconsistency in the application of the adiabatic theorem
authors: Karl-Peter Marzlin, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Some additional remarks concerning the origin of the inconsistency and the counterexample are included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404022
abstract: The adiabatic theorem states that an initial eigenstate of a slowly varying Hamiltonian remains close to an instantaneous eigenstate of the Hamiltonian at a later time. We show that a perfunctory application of this statement is problematic if the change in eigenstate is significant, regardless of how closely the evolution satisfies the requirements of the adiabatic theorem. We also introduce an example of a two-level system with an exactly solvable evolution to demonstrate the inapplicability of the adiabatic approximation for a particular slowly varying Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0404023
title: Euclidean Resonance: Application to Physical and Chemical Experiments
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404023
abstract: The phenomenon of Euclidean resonance (a strong enhancement of quantum tunneling through a nonstationary potential barrier) is applied to disintegration of atoms and molecules through tunnel barriers formed by applied constant and time-dependent electric fields. There are two different channels for such disintegration, electronic and ionic. The electronic mechanism is associated with the ionization of a molecule into an electron and a positive ion. The required frequencies are in a wide range between 100 MHz and infrared. This mechanism may constitute a method of selective destruction of chemical bonds. The ionic mechanism consists of dissociation of a molecule into two ions. Since an ion is more massive than an electron, the necessary frequency is about 1 MHz. This provides a theoretical possibility of a new method of isotope separation by radio frequency waves.

id: quant-ph/0404024
title: Generation and characterization of a source of wavelength division multiplexing quantum key distribution
authors: Atsushi Yabushita, Takayoshi Kobayashi
comments: 10pages, 6figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404024
abstract: Using spontaneous parametric down-conversion, photon pairs entangled in frequency and polarization were generated. After frequency resolving the photon pairs, the polarization correlations were measured on several polarization basis, and it was confirmed that the frequency resolved photon pairs were entangled in polarization, indicating the photon pairs can be used as a source of wavelength division multiplexing quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0404025
title: Statistical Origin of Pseudo-Hermitian Supersymmetry and Pseudo-Hermitian Fermions
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 20 pages, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys.A37:10193-10208,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404025
abstract: We show that the metric operator for a pseudo-supersymmetric Hamiltonian that has at least one negative real eigenvalue is necessarily indefinite. We introduce pseudo-Hermitian fermion (phermion) and abnormal phermion algebras and provide a pair of basic realizations of the algebra of N=2 pseudo-supersymmetric quantum mechanics in which pseudo-supersymmetry is identified with either a boson-phermion or a boson-abnormal-phermion exchange symmetry. We further establish the physical equivalence (non-equivalence) of phermions (abnormal phermions) with ordinary fermions, describe the underlying Lie algebras, and study multi-particle systems of abnormal phermions. The latter provides a certain bosonization of multi-fermion systems.

id: quant-ph/0404026
title: Logarithmic divergence of the block entanglement entropy for the ferromagnetic Heisenberg model
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Mario Salerno
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012301(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404026
abstract: Recent studies have shown that logarithmic divergence of entanglement entropy as function of size of a subsystem is a signature of criticality in quantum models. We demonstrate that the ground state entanglement entropy of $ n$ sites for ferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain of the length $L$ in a sector with fixed magnetization $y$ per site grows as ${1/2}\log_{2} \frac{n(L-n)}{L}C(y)$, where $C(y)=2\pi e({1/4}-y^{2})$

id: quant-ph/0404027
title: Experimental Quantum Coin Tossing
authors: G. Molina-Terriza, A. Vaziri, R. Ursin, A. Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 040501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404027
abstract: In this letter we present the first implementation of a quantum coin tossing protocol. This protocol belongs to a class of ``two-party'' cryptographic problems, where the communication partners distrust each other. As with a number of such two-party protocols, the best implementation of the quantum coin tossing requires qutrits. In this way, we have also performed the first complete quantum communication protocol with qutrits. In our experiment the two partners succeeded to remotely toss a row of coins using photons entangled in the orbital angular momentum. We also show the experimental bounds of a possible cheater and the ways of detecting him.

id: quant-ph/0404028
title: Noncommutative Spacetime and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jaroslaw Wawrzycki
comments: to be published as part of the book "Progress in General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404028
abstract: In this paper we will analyze the the status of gauge freedom in quantum mechanics (QM) and quantum field theory (QFT). Along with this analysis comparison with ordinary QFT will be given. We will show how the gauge freedom problem is connected with the spacetime coordinates status - the very point at which the difficulties of QM begin. A natural solution of the above mentioned problem will be proposed in which we give a slightly more general form of QM and QFT (in comparison to the ordinary QFT) with noncommutative structure of spacetime playing fundamental role in it. We achieve it by reinterpretation of the Bohr's complementarity principle on the one hand and by incorporation of our gauge freedom analysis on the other. We will present a generalization of the Bargmann's theory of exponents of ray representations. It will be given an example involving time dependent gauge freedom describing non-relativistic quantum particle in nonrelativistic gravitational field. In this example we infer the most general Schroedinger equation and prove equality of the (passive) inertial and the gravitational masses of quantum particle.

id: quant-ph/0404029
title: Intrinsic Entanglement Degradation by Multi-Mode Detection
authors: A. Aiello, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, v3: minor changes. Phys. Rev. A (2004), to be published
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404029
abstract: Relations between photon scattering, entanglement and multi-mode detection are investigated. We first establish a general framework in which one- and two-photon elastic scattering processes can be discussed, then we focus on the study of the intrinsic entanglement degradation caused by a multi-mode detection. We show that any multi-mode scattered state cannot maximally violate the Bell-CHSH inequality because of the momentum spread. The results presented here have general validity and can be applied to both deterministic and random scattering processes.

id: quant-ph/0404030
title: Observing Quantum Systems
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures; to appear in "Kybernetes", vol. 33 (2004)
journal: Kybernetes 34, 1/2 (2005) 222 - 240
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404030
abstract: An introduction to some basic ideas of the author's "quantum cybernetics" is given, which depicts waves and "particles" as mutually dependent system components, thus defining "organizationally closed systems" characterized by a fundamental circular causality. According to this, a new derivation of quantum theory's most fundamental equation, the Schroedinger equation, is presented. Finally, it is shown that quantum systems can be described by what Heinz von Foerster has called "nontrivial machines", whereas the corresponding classical counterparts turn out to behave as "trivial machines".

id: quant-ph/0404031
title: Engineering superpositions of displaced number states of a trapped ion
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Wagner D. Jose
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physica A 337 (2004) 89-108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404031
abstract: We present a protocol that permits the generation of a subtle with superposition with 2^(l+1) displaced number states on a circle in phase space as target state for the center-of-mass motion of a trapped ion. Through a sequence of 'l' cycles involving the application of laser pulses and no-fluorescence measurements, explicit expressions for the total duration of laser pulses employed in the sequence and probability of getting the ion in the upper electronic state during the 'l' cycles are obtained and analyzed in detail. Furthermore, assuming that the effective relaxation process of a trapped ion can be described in the framework of the standard master equation for the damped harmonic oscillator, we investigate the degradation of the quantum interference effects inherent to superpositions via Wigner function.

id: quant-ph/0404032
title: Toward reconstruction of relative state formulation of quantum theory
authors: Yukinari Kurita
comments: 8pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404032
abstract: In quantum theory, it is widely accepted that all experimental results must agree with theoretical predictions based on the Copenhagen interpretation. However the classical system in the Copenhagen interpretation has not been defined yet. On the other hand, although ongoing research of decoherence is trying to elucidate the emergence of the classical world, it cannot answer why we observe one of eigenstates in observed system. These situations show that the relation between what we observe and physical law has not been elucidated. Here I elucidate the relation by developing Everett's suggestion. Further, from this point of view, I point out that today's brain science falls into circular argument because it is trying to assign what we observe in the brain to process of the subjective perception, and I suggest the future research line in brain science.

id: quant-ph/0404033
title: Coherent Destruction of Photon Emission from a Single Molecule Source
authors: Igor Rozhkov, E. Barkai
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404033
abstract: The behavior of a single molecule driven simultaneously by a laser and by an electric radio frequency field is investigated using a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian approach. Employing the renormalization group method for differential equations we calculate the average waiting time for the first photon emission event to occur, and determine the conditions for the suppression and enhancement of photon emission. An abrupt transition from localization-like behavior to delocalization behavior is found.

id: quant-ph/0404034
title: Explicit Form of Evolution Operator of Three Atoms Tavis-Cummings Model
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Tatsuo Suzuki, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file, 9 pages. misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404034
abstract: In this letter the explicit form of evolution operator of three atoms Tavis-Cummings model is given, which is a generalization of the paper quant-ph/0403008.

id: quant-ph/0404035
title: Statistical properties of radiation fields in a compact space
authors: Zhe Chang, Cheng-Bo Guan
comments: LaTeX2e plain file of 10 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404035
abstract: We discuss radiation fields in a compact space of finite size instead of that in a cavity for investigating the coupled atom-radiation field system. Representations of $T(1)\times SO(4)$ group are used to give a formulation for kinematics of the radiation fields. The explicit geometrical parameter dependence of statistical properties of radiation fields is obtained. Results show remarkable differences from that of the black-body radiation system in free space.

id: quant-ph/0404036
title: Quantum Information processing by NMR: Implementation of Inversion-on-equality gate, Parity gate and Fanout gate
authors: T.Gopinath, Ranabir Das, Anil Kumar
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404036
abstract: While quantum information processing by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) with small number of qubits is well established, implementation of lengthy computations have proved to be difficult due to decoherence/relaxation. In such circumstances, shallow circuits (circuits using parallel computation) may prove to be realistic. Parity and fanout gates are essential to create shallow circuits. In this article we implement inversion-on-equality gate, followed by parity gate and fanout gate in 3-qubit systems by NMR, using evolution under indirect exchange coupling Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0404037
title: Minimum Renyi and Wehrl entropies at the output of bosonic channels
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Brent J. Yen
comments: Minimal revision. Accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022328 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404037
abstract: The minimum Renyi and Wehrl output entropies are found for bosonic channels in which the signal photons are either randomly displaced by a Gaussian distribution (classical-noise channel), or in which they are coupled to a thermal environment through lossy propagation (thermal-noise channel). It is shown that the Renyi output entropies of integer orders z>1 and the output Wehrl entropy are minimized when the channel input is a coherent state.

id: quant-ph/0404038
title: Advances in decoherence control
authors: Lorenza Viola
comments: 14 pages, 3 encapsulated eps figures. To appear in Journal of Modern Optics, Special Proceedings Volume of the XXXIV Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics, Snowbird, Jan 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404038
abstract: I address the current status of dynamical decoupling techniques in terms of required control resources and feasibility. Based on recent advances in both improving the theoretical design and assessing the control performance for specific noise models, I argue that significant progress may still be possible on the road of implementing decoupling under realistic constraints.

id: quant-ph/0404039
title: Quantum Abacus
authors: Taksu Cheon, Izumi Tsutsui, Tamas Fulop
comments: 4 Pages ReVTeX4 with 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A330 (2004) 338-342
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404039
abstract: We show that the U(2) family of point interactions on a line can be utilized to provide the U(2) family of qubit operations for quantum information processing. Qubits are realized as localized states in either side of the point interaction which represents a controllable gate. The manipulation of qubits proceeds in a manner analogous to the operation of an abacus. Keywords: quantum computation, quantum contact interaction, quantum wire

id: quant-ph/0404040
title: Quantum Quandaries: a Category-Theoretic Perspective
authors: John C. Baez
comments: 21 pages, 2 encapsulated Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404040
abstract: General relativity may seem very different from quantum theory, but work on quantum gravity has revealed a deep analogy between the two. General relativity makes heavy use of the category nCob, whose objects are (n-1)-dimensional manifolds representing "space" and whose morphisms are n-dimensional cobordisms representing "spacetime". Quantum theory makes heavy use of the category Hilb, whose objects are Hilbert spaces used to describe "states", and whose morphisms are bounded linear operators used to describe "processes". Moreover, the categories nCob and Hilb resemble each other far more than either resembles Set, the category whose objects are sets and whose morphisms are functions. In particular, both Hilb and nCob but not Set are *-categories with a noncartesian monoidal structure. We show how this accounts for many of the famously puzzling features of quantum theory: the failure of local realism, the impossibility of duplicating quantum information, and so on. We argue that these features only seem puzzling when we try to treat Hilb as analogous to Set rather than nCob, so that quantum theory will make more sense when regarded as part of a theory of spacetime.

id: quant-ph/0404041
title: Quantum Reality, Complex Numbers and the Meteorological Butterfly Effect
authors: T.N.Palmer
comments: Revised version, accepted for publication in Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404041
abstract: A not-too-technical version of the paper: "A Granular Permutation-based Representation of Complex Numbers and Quaternions: Elements of a Realistic Quantum Theory" - Proc. Roy. Soc.A (2004) 460, 1039-1055. The phrase "meteorological butterfly effect" is introduced to illustrate, not the familiar loss of predictability in low-dimensional chaos, but the much less familiar and much more radical paradigm of the finite-time predictability horizon, associated with upscale transfer of uncertainty in certain multi-scale systems. This motivates a novel reinterpretation of unit complex numbers (and quaternions) in terms of a family of self-similar permutation operators. A realistic deterministic kinematic reformulation of the foundations of quantum theory is given using this reinterpretation of complex numbers. Using a property of the cosine function not normally encountered in physics, that it is irrational for all dyadic rational angles between 0 and pi/2, this reformulation is shown to have the emergent property of counterfactual indefiniteness and is therefore not non-locally causal.

id: quant-ph/0404042
title: How does the entropy/information bound work ?
authors: Jacob D. Bekenstein
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages. Contribution to the special issue of Foundation of Physics in honor of Asher Peres; C. Fuchs and A. van der Merwe, eds
journal: Found.Phys. 35 (2005) 1805-1823
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404042
abstract: According to the universal entropy bound, the entropy (and hence information capacity) of a complete weakly self-gravitating physical system can be bounded exclusively in terms of its circumscribing radius and total gravitating energy. The bound's correctness is supported by explicit statistical calculations of entropy, gedanken experiments involving the generalized second law, and Bousso's covariant holographic bound. On the other hand, it is not always obvious in a particular example how the system avoids having too many states for given energy, and hence violating the bound. We analyze in detail several purported counterexamples of this type (involving systems made of massive particles, systems at low temperature, systems with high degeneracy of the lowest excited states, systems with degenerate ground states, or involving a particle spectrum with proliferation of nearly massless species), and exhibit in each case the mechanism behind the bound's efficacy.

id: quant-ph/0404043
title: Complementarity and quantum walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, RevTex, 2 figures; v2 adds references; v3 updated to incorporate feedback and updated references; v4 substantially expanded to clarify presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404043
abstract: We show that quantum walks interpolate between a coherent `wave walk' and a random walk depending on how strongly the walker's coin state is measured; i.e., the quantum walk exhibits the quintessentially quantum property of complementarity, which is manifested as a trade-off between knowledge of which path the walker takes vs the sharpness of the interference pattern. A physical implementation of a quantum walk (the quantum quincunx) should thus have an identifiable walker and the capacity to demonstrate the interpolation between wave walk and random walk depending on the strength of measurement.

id: quant-ph/0404044
title: Does the wavefunction of the universe exist?
authors: Thomas Kr¨¹ger
comments: 24 pages; explanation added on p. 6 after equ. 11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404044
abstract: The overwhelming majority of scientists still takes it for granted that classical mechanics (ClM) is nothing but a limiting case of quantum mechanics (QM). Although some physicists restrict this belief to a generalized QM as represented, e. g., by the algebra of observables, it will be shown in this contribution that the view of ClM as a mere sub-set of QM is nevertheless unfounded. The usual attempts to derive the laws of ClM from QM are either insufficient or not universally applicable. The transition from traditional to algebraic QM does not add any further insight. It is demonstrated that typical constituents of the classical macroscopic world i) cannot be described reasonably in terms of QM and/or ii) do not show up the typical quantum behavior which manifests in the double-slit interference and in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations. Moreover, both attempts to recover ClM from QM and approaches based on vacuum fluctuations are critically inspected, and we arrive at the conclusion: QM does not comprehend ClM, i. e., a wavefunction of the universe does not exist.

id: quant-ph/0404045
title: Quantum mechanics without quantum logic
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: 24 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404045
abstract: We describe a scheme of quantum mechanics in which the Hilbert space and linear operators are only secondary structures of the theory. As primary structures we consider observables, elements of noncommutative algebra, and the physical states, the nonlinear functionals on this algebra, which associate with results of single measurement. We show that in such scheme the mathematical apparatus of the standard quantum mechanics does not contradict a hypothesis on existence of an objective local reality, a principle of a causality and Kolmogorovian probability theory.

id: quant-ph/0404046
title: An Equivalence of Entanglement-Assisted Transformation and Multiple-Copy Entanglement Transformation
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Now 19 pages. Need IEEEtran.cls. Results in the case of probabilistic transformations added. Presentation part improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404046
abstract: We examine the powers of entanglement-assisted transformation and multiple-copy entanglement transformation. First, we find a sufficient condition of when a given catalyst is useful in producing another specific target state. As an application of this condition, for any non-maximally entangled bipartite pure state and any integer $n$ not less than 4, we are able to explicitly construct a set of $n\times n$ quantum states which can be produced by using the given state as a catalyst. Second, we prove that for any positive integer $k$, entanglement-assisted transformation with $k\times k$-dimensional catalysts is useful in producing a target state if and only if multiple-copy entanglement transformation with $k$ copies of state is useful in producing the same target. Moreover, a necessary and sufficient condition for both of them is obtained in terms of the Schmidt coefficients of the target. This equivalence of entanglement-assisted transformation and multiple-copy entanglement transformation implies many interesting properties of entanglement transformation. Furthermore, these results are generalized to the case of probabilistic entanglement transformations.

id: quant-ph/0404047
title: Partial Recovery of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 24 pages (double-column). Minor revisions. Needs IEEEtran.cls. Journal version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 52, no. 7, pp. 3080-3104, Jul.(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404047
abstract: Suppose Alice and Bob try to transform an entangled state shared between them into another one by local operations and classical communications. Then in general a certain amount of entanglement contained in the initial state will decrease in the process of transformation. However, an interesting phenomenon called partial entanglement recovery shows that it is possible to recover some amount of entanglement by adding another entangled state and transforming the two entangled states collectively. In this paper we are mainly concerned with the feasibility of partial entanglement recovery. The basic problem we address is whether a given state is useful in recovering entanglement lost in a specified transformation. In the case where the source and target states of the original transformation satisfy the strict majorization relation, a necessary and sufficient condition for partial entanglement recovery is obtained. For the general case we give two sufficient conditions. We also give an efficient algorithm for the feasibility of partial entanglement recovery in polynomial time. As applications, we establish some interesting connections between partial entanglement recovery and the generation of maximally entangled states, quantum catalysis, mutual catalysis, and multiple-copy entanglement transformation.

id: quant-ph/0404048
title: Effective three-body interactions in triangular optical lattices
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Enrique Rico
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, REVTEX. Experimental implementation elaborated, brief study of ground states given
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053620 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404048
abstract: We demonstrate that a triangular optical lattice of two atomic species, bosonic or fermionic, can be employed to generate a variety of novel spin-1/2 Hamiltonians. These include effective three-spin interactions resulting from the possibility of atoms tunneling along two different paths. Such interactions can be employed to simulate particular one or two dimensional physical systems with ground states that possess a rich structure and undergo a variety of quantum phase transitions. In addition, tunneling can be activated by employing Raman transitions, thus creating an effective Hamiltonian that does not preserve the number of atoms of each species. In the presence of external electromagnetic fields, resulting in complex tunneling couplings, we obtain effective Hamiltonians that break chiral symmetry. The ground states of these Hamiltonians can be used for the physical implementation of geometrical or topological objects.

id: quant-ph/0404049
title: Multipartite continuous-variable entanglement from concurrent nonlinearities
authors: Olivier Pfister, Sheng Feng, Gregory Jennings, Raphael Pooser, Daruo Xie
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. A. 4 pages, 2 figures. V.3: minor typos corrected, one reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 020302(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404049
abstract: We show theoretically that concurrent interactions in a second-order nonlinear medium placed inside an optical resonator can generate multipartite entanglement between the resonator modes. We show that there is a mathematical connexion between this system and van Loock and Braunstein's proposal for entangling N continuous quantum optical variables by interfering the outputs of N degenerate optical parametric amplifiers (OPA) at a N-port beam splitter. Our configuration, however, requires only one nondegenerate OPA and no interferometer. In a preliminary experimental study, we observe the concurrence of the appropriate interactions in periodically poled RbTiOAsO4.

id: quant-ph/0404050
title: Geometric Control Methods for Quantum Computations
authors: Zakaria Giunashvili
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404050
abstract: The applications of geometric control theory methods on Lie groups and homogeneous spaces to the theory of quantum computations are investigated. These methods are shown to be very useful for the problem of constructing an universal set of gates for quantum computations: the well-known result that the set of all one-bit gates together with almost any one two-bit gate is universal is considered from the control theory viewpoint.

id: quant-ph/0404051
title: Macroscopic objects in quantum mechanics: A combinatorial approach
authors: Itamar Pitowsky
comments: RevTeX, 14 pages, some additions to the published version: A second conjecture added, discussion expanded, and references added
journal: Physical Review A 70, 022103-1-6 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404051
abstract: Why we do not see large macroscopic objects in entangled states? There are two ways to approach this question. The first is dynamic: the coupling of a large object to its environment cause any entanglement to decrease considerably. The second approach, which is discussed in this paper, puts the stress on the difficulty to observe a large scale entanglement. As the number of particles n grows we need an ever more precise knowledge of the state, and an ever more carefully designed experiment, in order to recognize entanglement. To develop this point we consider a family of observables, called witnesses, which are designed to detect entanglement. A witness W distinguishes all the separable (unentangled) states from some entangled states. If we normalize the witness W to satisfy |tr(W\rho)| \leq 1 for all separable states \rho, then the efficiency of W depends on the size of its maximal eigenvalue in absolute value; that is, its operator norm ||W||. It is known that there are witnesses on the space of n qbits for which ||W|| is exponential in n. However, we conjecture that for a large majority of n-qbit witnesses ||W|| \leq O(\sqrt{n logn}). Thus, in a non ideal measurement, which includes errors, the largest eigenvalue of a typical witness lies below the threshold of detection. We prove this conjecture for the family of extremal witnesses introduced by Werner and Wolf (Phys. Rev. A 64, 032112 (2001)).

id: quant-ph/0404052
title: Gaussian quantum Monte Carlo methods for fermions
authors: J. F. Corney, P. D. Drummond
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Revised version has expanded discussion, simplified mathematical presentation, and application to 2D Hubbard model
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 260401 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404052
abstract: We introduce a new class of quantum Monte Carlo methods, based on a Gaussian quantum operator representation of fermionic states. The methods enable first-principles dynamical or equilibrium calculations in many-body Fermi systems, and, combined with the existing Gaussian representation for bosons, provide a unified method of simulating Bose-Fermi systems. As an application, we calculate finite-temperature properties of the two dimensional Hubbard model.

id: quant-ph/0404053
title: Ordering two-qubit states with concurrence and negativity
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, slightly revised (including new title and comments on general structure of family of states exhibiting the discussed properties), to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032326 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404053
abstract: We study the ordering of two-qubit states with respect to the degree of bipartite entanglement using the Wootters concurrence -- a measure of the entanglement of formation, and the negativity -- a measure of the entanglement cost under the positive-partial-transpose-preserving operations. For two-qubit pure states, the negativity is the same as the concurrence. However, we demonstrate analytically on simple examples of various mixtures of Bell and separable states that the entanglement measures can impose different orderings on the states. We show which states, in general, give the maximally different predictions, (i) when one of the states has the concurrence greater but the negativity smaller than those for the other state, and (ii) when the states are entangled to the same degree according to one of the measures, but differently according to the other.

id: quant-ph/0404054
title: Quantum cloning at the light-atoms interface: copying a coherent light state into two atomic quantum memories
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 180501 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404054
abstract: A scheme for the optimal Gaussian cloning of coherent light states at the light-atoms interface is proposed. The distinct feature of this proposal is that the clones are stored in an atomic quantum memory, which is important for applications in quantum communication. The atomic quantum cloning machine requires only a single passage of the light pulse through the atomic ensembles followed by the measurement of a light quadrature and an appropriate feedback, which renders the protocol experimentally feasible. An alternative protocol, where one of the clones is carried by the outgoing light pulse, is discussed in connection with quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0404055
title: Quantum Information Processing with Trapped Neutral Atoms
authors: P. S. Jessen, I. H. Deutsch, R. Stock
comments: 18 pages, accepted for publication in special issue of Quantum Information Processing (Kluwer)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404055
abstract: Quantum information can be processed using large ensembles of ultracold and trapped neutral atoms, building naturally on the techniques developed for high-precision spectroscopy and metrology. This article reviews some of the most important protocols for universal quantum logic with trapped neutrals, as well as the history and state-of-the-art of experimental work to implement these in the laboratory. Some general observations are made concerning the different strategies for qubit encoding, transport and interaction, including tradeoffs between decoherence rates and the likelihood of twoqubit gate errors. These tradeoffs must be addressed through further refinements of logic protocols and trapping technologies before one can undertake the design of a generalpurpose neutral-atom quantum processor.

id: quant-ph/0404056
title: A perturbative expansion of the evolution operator associated with time-dependent quantum Hamiltonians
authors: P. Aniello
comments: 34 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404056
abstract: A novel expansion -- which generalizes Magnus expansion -- of the evolution operator associated with a (in general, time-dependent) perturbed Hamiltonian is introduced. It is shown that it has a wide range of possible solutions that can be fitted according to computational convenience. The time-independent and the adiabatic case are studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0404057
title: Initial wave packets and the various power-law decreases of scattered wave packets at long times
authors: Manabu Miyamoto
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042704 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404057
abstract: The long time behavior of scattered wave packets $\psi (x,t)$ from a finite-range potential is investigated, by assuming $\psi (x,t)$ to be initially located outside the potential. It is then shown that $\psi (x,t)$ can asymptotically decrease in the various power laws at long time, according to its initial characteristics at small momentum. As an application, we consider the square-barrier potential system and demonstrate that $\psi (x,t)$ exhibits the asymptotic behavior $t^{-3/2}$, while another behavior like $t^{-5/2}$ can also appear for another $\psi (x,t)$.

id: quant-ph/0404058
title: Steering Distillation by "Pulsed" and "Continuous" Measurements
authors: B.Militello, H.Nakazato, A.Messina
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404058
abstract: A new systematic strategy for steering the distillation process for a quantum system, that utilizes the so-called "pulsed" and "continuous" measurements on another quantum system in interaction with the former, is proposed. The distillation process characterized by the specific interaction between the two systems and the "pulsed" measurements is shown to be controllable through the "continuous" measurements, i.e., the quantum Zeno dynamics, providing an effective recipe to prefix the target.

id: quant-ph/0404059
title: Experimental Demonstration of a Quantum Circuit using Linear Optics Gates
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: v2 is final PRA version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404059
abstract: One of the main advantages of an optical approach to quantum computing is the fact that optical fibers can be used to connect the logic and memory devices to form useful circuits, in analogy with the wires of a conventional computer. Here we describe an experimental demonstration of a simple quantum circuit of that kind in which two probabilistic exclusive-OR (XOR) logic gates were combined to calculate the parity of three input qubits.

id: quant-ph/0404060
title: A quantum Fourier transform algorithm
authors: Chris Lomont
comments: 18 pages. Minor corrections were made, and some new material was added. Particularly, simulation results were added to show output of the algorithm, and to suggest possible improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404060
abstract: Algorithms to compute the quantum Fourier transform over a cyclic group are fundamental to many quantum algorithms. This paper describes such an algorithm and gives a proof of its correctness, tightening some claimed performance bounds given earlier. Exact bounds are given for the number of qubits needed to achieve a desired tolerance, allowing simulation of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0404061
title: Classical Cryptosystems In A Quantum Setting
authors: Michael Stephen Brown
comments: 170 pages, 2 figures, Master's Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404061
abstract: Encryption schemes attempt to provide a means for entities to communicate confidentially over a public channel. Such schemes have been studied for centuries, and their use has become widespread. However, developments in the area of quantum computing indicate that many of the public key cryptosystems currently in use could easily be broken if large-scale quantum computers become technologically feasible. Further, encrypted messages captured and stored in the past could also be decrypted by a future quantum attacker. Since large-scale quantum computers may one day be developed, We need to prepare for that eventuality by analysing modern cryptosystems with respect to attacks with a quantum computer. In this thesis, submitted in fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of Master of Mathematics in Combinatorics & Optimisation at the University of Waterloo, we examine the quantum strengths and vulnerabilities of several of the most popular classical public key cryptosystems.

id: quant-ph/0404062
title: On the Complexity of Quantum Languages
authors: Elham Kashefi, Carolina Moura Alves
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404062
abstract: The standard inputs given to a quantum machine are classical binary strings. In this view, any quantum complexity class is a collection of subsets of $\{0,1\}^{*}$. However, a quantum machine can also accept quantum states as its input. T. Yamakami has introduced a general framework for quantum operators and inputs \cite{Yam02}. In this paper we present several quantum languages within this model and by generalizing the complexity classes QMA and QCMA we analyze the complexity of the introduced languages. We also discuss how to derive a classical language from a given quantum language and as a result we introduce new QCMA and QMA languages.

id: quant-ph/0404063
title: Sub- and super-radiance over macroscopic distances using a perfect lens with negative refraction
authors: Juergen Kaestel, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404063
abstract: Two atoms put at the foci of a perfect lens [J.B. Pendry, Phys. Ref. Lett. 85, 3966 (2000)] are shown to exhibit perfect sub- and super-radiance even over macroscopic distances limited only by the propagation length in the free-space decay time. If the left-handed material forming the perfect lens has nearly constant negative refraction and vanishing absorption over a spectral range larger than the natural linewidth, the imaginary part of the retarded Greens-function between the two focal points is identical to the one at the same spatial position and the atoms undergo a Markovian dynamics. Collective decay rates and level shifts are calculated from the Greens-function of the Veselago-Pendry lens and limitation as well as potential applications are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0404064
title: NMR Techniques for Quantum Control and Computation
authors: Lieven M.K. Vandersypen, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 33 pages, accepted for publication in Rev. Mod. Phys., added subsection on T_{1,\rho} (V.A.6) and on time-optimal pulse sequences (III.A.6), redid some figures, made many small changes, expanded references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404064
abstract: Fifty years of developments in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) have resulted in an unrivaled degree of control of the dynamics of coupled two-level quantum systems. This coherent control of nuclear spin dynamics has recently been taken to a new level, motivated by the interest in quantum information processing. NMR has been the workhorse for the experimental implementation of quantum protocols, allowing exquisite control of systems up to seven qubits in size. Here, we survey and summarize a broad variety of pulse control and tomographic techniques which have been developed for and used in NMR quantum computation. Many of these will be useful in other quantum systems now being considered for implementation of quantum information processing tasks.

id: quant-ph/0404065
title: Dynamic optical bistability in resonantly enhanced Raman generation
authors: I. Novikova, A.S. Zibrov, D.F. Phillips, A. Andre, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 69, 061802 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404065
abstract: We report observations of novel dynamic behavior in resonantly-enhanced stimulated Raman scattering in Rb vapor. In particular, we demonstrate a dynamic hysteresis of the Raman scattered optical field in response to changes of the drive laser field intensity and/or frequency. This effect may be described as a dynamic form of optical bistability resulting from the formation and decay of atomic coherence. We have applied this phenomenon to the realization of an all-optical switch.

id: quant-ph/0404066
title: The Generalised Liar Paradox: A Quantum Model and Interpretation
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 13 pages, to be published in Foundations of Science
journal: Foundations of Science, 11, 399-418, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404066
abstract: The formalism of abstracted quantum mechanics is applied in a model of the generalized Liar Paradox. Here, the Liar Paradox, a consistently testable configuration of logical truth properties, is considered a dynamic conceptual entity in the cognitive sphere. Basically, the intrinsic contextuality of the truth-value of the Liar Paradox is appropriately covered by the abstracted quantum mechanical approach. The formal details of the model are explicited here for the generalized case. We prove the possibility of constructing a quantum model of the m-sentence generalizations of the Liar Paradox. This includes (i) the truth-falsehood state of the m-Liar Paradox can be represented by an embedded 2m-dimensional quantum vector in a (2m)^m dimensional complex Hilbert space, with cognitive interactions corresponding to projections, (ii) the construction of a continuous 'time' dynamics is possible: typical truth and falsehood value oscillations are described by Schrodinger evolution, (iii) Kirchoff and von Neumann axioms are satisfied by introduction of 'truth-value by inference' projectors, (iv) time invariance of unmeasured state.

id: quant-ph/0404067
title: A Note on the Quantum Query Complexity of the Hidden Subgroup Problem
authors: Troels Windfeldt
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404067
abstract: We are concerned with the Hidden Subgroup Problem for finite groups. We present a simplified analysis of a quantum algorithm proposed by Hallgren, Russell and Ta-Shma as well as a detailed proof of a lower bound on the probability of success of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0404068
title: A Case for Applying an Abstracted Quantum Formalism to Cognition
authors: Diederik Aerts, Jan Broekaert, Liane Gabora
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. Published in in Mind in Interaction, ed. Campbell, R., John Benjamins, Amsterdam
journal: New Ideas in Psychology, 29, pp. 136-146, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404068
abstract: This chapter outlines some of the highlights of efforts undertaken by our group to describe the role of contextuality in the conceptualization of conscious experience using generalized formalisms from quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0404069
title: Entanglement bounds of tripartite squeezed thermal states
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 335 (2005)121-126
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404069
abstract: I propose the multi-mode squeezed thermal state based on the multi-mode pure entangled state. The correlation matrix of the state is characterized by two parameters. I then analysis the separable condition for this state, and calculating the relative entropy of the state with respect to the same kind of fully separable state in order to provide an upper bound of the relative entropy of entanglement. The bound is compared with the other bounds which were obtained with reduced state.

id: quant-ph/0404070
title: State Property Systems and Closure Spaces: Extracting the Classical and Nonclassical Parts
authors: Diederik Aerts, Didier Deses
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, Published in Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Probability and Axiomatics, eds. Aerts, D, Czachor, M. and Durt, T, World Scientific, Singapore
journal: In D. Aerts, M. Czachor and T. Durt (Eds.), Probing the Structure of Quantum Mechanics: Nonlinearity, Nonlocality, Probability and Axiomatics (pp. 130-148). Singapore: World Scientific, 2002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404070
abstract: We introduce classical properties using the concept of super selection rule, i.e. two properties are separated by a superselection rule iff there do not exist 'superposition states' related to these two properties. Then we show that the classical properties of a state property system correspond exactly to the clopen subsets of the corresponding closure space. Thus connected closure spaces correspond precisely to state property systems for which the elements 0 and I are the only classical properties, the so called pure nonclassical state property systems. The main result is a decomposition theorem, which allows us to split a state property system into a number of 'pure nonclassical state property systems' and a 'totally classical state property system'. This decomposition theorem for a state property system is the translation of a decomposition theorem for the corresponding closure space into its connected components.

id: quant-ph/0404071
title: Classicality and connectedness for state property systems and closure spaces
authors: Diederik Aerts, Didier Deses, Ann Van der Voorde
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404071
abstract: It has been shown that there is a categorical equivalence between the category SPS of state property systems and the category Cl of closure spaces. In this note we prove, using this equivalence between categories, that the concept of connectedness for closure spaces can be used to formulate a decomposition theorem, which allows us to split a state property system into a number of 'pure nonclassical state property systems' and a 'totally classical state property system'.

id: quant-ph/0404072
title: On the notion of phase in mechanics
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404072
abstract: The notion of phase plays an esential role in both classical and quantum mechanics.But what is a phase? We show that if we define the notion of phase in phase (!) space one can very easily and naturally recover the Heisenberg-Weyl formalism; this is achieved using the properties of the Poincare-Cartan invariant, and without making any quantum assumption.

id: quant-ph/0404073
title: Correction to the Casimir force due to the anomalous skin effect
authors: R. Esquivel, V. Svetovoy
comments: 29 pages. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404073
abstract: The surface impedance approach is discussed in connection with the precise calculation of the Casimir force between metallic plates. It allows to take into account the nonlocal connection between the current density and electric field inside of metals. In general, a material has to be described by two impedances $Z_{s}(\omega,q)$ and $Z_{p}(\omega,q)$ corresponding to two different polarization states. In contrast with the approximate Leontovich impedance they depend not only on frequency $\omega$ but also on the wave vector along the plate $q$. In this paper only the nonlocal effects happening at frequencies $\omega<\omega_{p}$ (plasma frequency) are analyzed. We refer to all of them as the anomalous skin effect. The impedances are calculated for the propagating and evanescent fields in the Boltzmann approximation. It is found that $Z_p$ significantly deviates from the local impedance as a result of the Thomas-Fermi screening. The nonlocal correction to the Casimir force is calculated at zero temperature. This correction is small but observable at small separations between bodies. The same theory can be used to find more significant nonlocal contribution at $\omega\sim\omega_p$ due to the plasmon excitation.

id: quant-ph/0404074
title: The Wigner function associated to the Rogers-Szego polynomials
authors: D. Galetti, S. S. Mizrahi, M. Ruzzi
comments: 12 pages, 2 (mathemathica) figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404074
abstract: We show here that besides the well known Hermite polynomials, the q-deformed harmonic oscillator algebra admits another function space associated to a particular family of q-polynomials, namely the Rogers-Szego polynomials. Their main properties are presented, the associated Wigner function is calculated and its properties are discussed. It is shown that the angle probability density obtained from the Wigner function is a well-behaved function defined in the interval [-Pi,Pi), while the action probability only assumes integer values greater or equal than zero. It is emphasized the fact that the width of the angle probability density is governed by the free parameter q characterizing the polynomial.

id: quant-ph/0404075
title: Small Pseudo-Random Families of Matrices: Derandomizing Approximate Quantum Encryption
authors: Andris Ambainis, Adam Smith
comments: 11 pages, no figures. In Proceedings of RANDOM 2004, Cambridge, MA, August 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404075
abstract: A quantum encryption scheme (also called private quantum channel, or state randomization protocol) is a one-time pad for quantum messages. If two parties share a classical random string, one of them can transmit a quantum state to the other so that an eavesdropper gets little or no information about the state being transmitted. Perfect encryption schemes leak no information at all about the message. Approximate encryption schemes leak a non-zero (though small) amount of information but require a shorter shared random key. Approximate schemes with short keys have been shown to have a number of applications in quantum cryptography and information theory. This paper provides the first deterministic, polynomial-time constructions of quantum approximate encryption schemes with short keys. Previous constructions (quant-ph/0307104) are probabilistic--that is, they show that if the operators used for encryption are chosen at random, then with high probability the resulting protocol will be a secure encryption scheme. Moreover, the resulting protocol descriptions are exponentially long. Our protocols use keys of the same length as (or better length than) the probabilistic constructions; to encrypt $n$ qubits approximately, one needs $n+o(n)$ bits of shared key. An additional contribution of this paper is a connection between classical combinatorial derandomization and constructions of pseudo-random matrix families in a continuous space.

id: quant-ph/0404076
title: Consequences and Limits of Nonlocal Strategies
authors: Richard Cleve, Peter Hoyer, Ben Toner, John Watrous
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404076
abstract: This paper investigates the powers and limitations of quantum entanglement in the context of cooperative games of incomplete information. We give several examples of such nonlocal games where strategies that make use of entanglement outperform all possible classical strategies. One implication of these examples is that entanglement can profoundly affect the soundness property of two-prover interactive proof systems. We then establish limits on the probability with which strategies making use of entanglement can win restricted types of nonlocal games. These upper bounds may be regarded as generalizations of Tsirelson-type inequalities, which place bounds on the extent to which quantum information can allow for the violation of Bell inequalities. We also investigate the amount of entanglement required by optimal and nearly optimal quantum strategies for some games.

id: quant-ph/0404077
title: Completely Positive Post-Markovian Master Equation via a Measurement Approach
authors: Alireza Shabani, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: v2: 5 pages, incl. 1 figure. A more general post-Markovian master equation is derived as an intermediate step, and some steps in the derivation are clarified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 020101(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404077
abstract: A new post-Markovian quantum master equation is derived, that includes bath memory effects via a phenomenologically introduced memory kernel k(t). The derivation uses as a formal tool a probabilistic single-shot bath-measurement process performed during the coupled system-bath evolution. The resulting analytically solvable master equation interpolates between the exact Nakajima-Zwanzig equation and the Markovian Lindblad equation. A necessary and sufficient condition for complete positivity in terms of properties of k(t) is presented, in addition to a prescription for the experimental determination of k(t). The formalism is illustrated with examples.

id: quant-ph/0404078
title: Coincidence Subwavelength Interference by a Classical Thermal Light
authors: Kaige Wang, De-zhong Cao
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404078
abstract: We show that a thermal light random in transverse direction can perform subwavelength double slit interference in a joint-intensity measurement. This is the classical version of quantum lithography, and it can be explained with the correlation of rays instead of the entanglement of photons.

id: quant-ph/0404079
title: Quantum entanglement theory in the presence of superselection rules
authors: Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404079
abstract: Superselection rules severly constrain the operations which can be implemented on a distributed quantum system. While the restriction to local operations and classical communication gives rise to entanglement as a nonlocal resource, particle number conservation additionally confines the possible operations and should give rise to a new resource. In [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 087904 (2004), quant-ph/0310124] we showed that this resource can be quantified by a single additional number, the superselection induced variance (SiV) without changing the concept of entanglement. In this paper, we give the results on pure states in greater detail; additionally, we provide a discussion of mixed state nonlocality with superselection rules where we consider both formation and distillation. Finally, we demonstrate that SiV is indeed a resource, i.e., that it captures how well a state can be used to overcome the restrictions imposed by the superselection rule.

id: quant-ph/0404080
title: Resonance-enhanced group delay times in an asymmetric single quantum barrier
authors: Chun-Fang Li
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. more references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404080
abstract: It is shown that the transmission and reflection group delay times in an asymmetric single quantum barrier are greatly enhanced by the transmission resonance when the energy of incident particles is larger than the height of the barrier. The resonant transmission group delay is of the order of the quasibound state lifetime in the barrier region. The reflection group delay can be either positive or negative, depending on the relative height of the potential energies on the two sides of the barrier. Its magnitude is much larger than the quasibound state lifetime. These predictions have been observed in a microwave experiment by H. Spieker of Braunschweig University.

id: quant-ph/0404081
title: Local control theory for unitary transformations: Application to quantum computing without leakage
authors: Shlomo E. Sklarz, David J. Tannor
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404081
abstract: We present a local optimal control strategy to produce desired unitary transformations. Unitary transformations are central to all quantum computational algorithms. Many realizations of quantum computation use a submanifold of states, comprising the quantum register, coupled by an external driving field to a collection of additional mediating excited states. Previous attempts to apply control theory to induce unitary transformations on the quantum register, while successful, produced pulses that drive the population out of the computational register at intermediate times. Leakage of population from the register is undesirable since often the states outside the register are prone to decay and decoherence, and populating them causes a decrease in the final fidelity. In this work we devise a local optimal control method for achieving target unitary transformations on a quantum register, while avoiding intermediate leakage out of the computational submanifold. The technique exploits a phase locking of the field to the system such as to eliminate the undesirable excitation. This method is then applied to produce an SU(6) Fourier transform on the vibrational levels of the ground electronic state of the Na$_2$ molecule. The emerging mechanism uses two photon resonances to create a transformation on the quantum register while blocking one photon resonances to excited states.

id: quant-ph/0404082
title: Computation by measurements: a unifying picture
authors: Panos Aliferis, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062314 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404082
abstract: The ability to perform a universal set of quantum operations based solely on static resources and measurements presents us with a strikingly novel viewpoint for thinking about quantum computation and its powers. We consider the two major models for doing quantum computation by measurements that have hitherto appeared in the literature and show that they are conceptually closely related by demonstrating a systematic local mapping between them. This way we effectively unify the two models, showing that they make use of interchangeable primitives. With the tools developed for this mapping, we then construct more resource-effective methods for performing computation within both models and propose schemes for the construction of arbitrary graph states employing two-qubit measurements alone.

id: quant-ph/0404083
title: Demonstration of conditional quantum phase shift between ions in a solid
authors: J. J. Longdell, M. J. Sellars, N. B. Manson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404083
abstract: Due to their potential for long coherence times, dopant ions have long been considered promising candidates for scalable solid state quantum computing. However, the demonstration of two qubit operation has proven to be problematic, largely due to the difficulty of addressing closely spaced ions. Here we use optically active ions and optical frequency addressing to demonstrate a conditional phase shift between two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0404084
title: Spin-orbit entanglement in time evolution of radial wave packets in hydrogenic systems
authors: M. Turek, P. Rozmej
comments: 12 pages, 5 postscript figures, 1 jpg figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404084
abstract: Time evolution of radial wave packets built from the eigenstates of Dirac equation for a hydrogenic systems is considered. Radial wave packets are constructed from the states of different $n$ quantum number and the same lowest angular momentum. In general they exhibit a kind of breathing motion with dispersion and (partial) revivals. Calculations show that for some particular preparations of the wave packet one can observe interesting effects in spin motion, coming from inherent entanglement of spin and orbital degrees of freedom. These effects manifest themselves through some oscillations in the mean values of spin operators and through changes of spatial probability density carried by upper and lower components of the wave function. It is also shown that the characteristic time scale of predicted effects (called $T_{\mathrm{ls}}$) is for radial wave packets much smaller than in other cases, reaching values comparable to (or even less than) the time scale for the wave packet revival.

id: quant-ph/0404085
title: Eavesdropping on the Bostroem-Filbinger Communication Protocol in Noisy Quantum Channel
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: 4 pages; PSCA, 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ud
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404085
abstract: We show an eavesdropping scheme on Bostr\UNICODE{0xf6}m-Felbinger communication protocol (called ping-pong protocol) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 187902 (2002)] in an ideal quantum channel. A measurement attack can be perfectly used to eavesdrop Alice's information instead of a most general quantum operation attack. In a noisy quantum channel, the direct communication is forbidden. We present a quantum key distribution protocol based on the ping-pong protocol, which can be used in a low noisy quantum channel. And we give a weak upper bound on the bit-error ratio that the detection probability $d$ should be lower than 0.11, which is a requirement criterion when we utilize the ping-pong protocol in a real communication.

id: quant-ph/0404086
title: Passive Quantum Erasure for Neutral Kaons
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B. C. Hiesmayr
comments: 12 pages, contribution to the Festschrift in honor of Prof. Jose Adolfo de Azcarraga for his 60th birthday, Salamanca (Spain), June 9-11, 2003
journal: "Symmetries in Gravity and Field Theory", ed. by V. Aldaya and J. M. Cervero, Ediciones Universidad de Salamanca, Salamanca, 2004, p. 223
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404086
abstract: Quantum marking and quantum erasure are discussed for the neutral kaon system. Contrary to other two-level systems, strangeness and lifetime of a neutral kaon state can be alternatively measured via an "active" or a "passive" procedure. This offers new quantum erasure possibilities. In particular, the operation of a quantum eraser in the "delayed choice" mode is clearly illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0404087
title: Position Uncertainty Measures on the Sphere
authors: D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 9 pages, 5 figures; To appear in Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Geometry, Integrability and Quantization, held in Varna 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404087
abstract: Position uncertainty (delocalization) measures for a particle on the sphere are proposed and illustrated on several examples of states. The new measures are constructed using suitably the standard multiplication angle operator variances. They are shown to depend solely on the state of the particle and to obey uncertainty relations of the Schroedinger--Robertson type. A set of Hermitian operators with continuous spectrum is pointed out the variances of which are complementary to the longitudinal angle uncertainty measure.

id: quant-ph/0404088
title: The nonlinear field theory I. The Dirac electron theory as approximation of the nonlinear electrodynamics
authors: Alexander G. Kyriakos
comments: 13 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404088
abstract: In the present paper it is shown that the Dirac electron theory is the approximation of the special nonlinear electromagnetic field theory

id: quant-ph/0404089
title: Quantum Circuits for General Multiqubit Gates
authors: Mikko Mottonen, Juha J. Vartiainen, Ville Bergholm, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 130502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404089
abstract: We consider a generic elementary gate sequence which is needed to implement a general quantum gate acting on n qubits -- a unitary transformation with 4^n degrees of freedom. For synthesizing the gate sequence, a method based on the so-called cosine-sine matrix decomposition is presented. The result is optimal in the number of elementary one-qubit gates, 4^n, and scales more favorably than the previously reported decompositions requiring 4^n-2^n+1 controlled NOT gates.

id: quant-ph/0404090
title: Operational formulation of homodyne detection
authors: Tomas Tyc, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 15 pages, notes about strong local oscillator condition and on imperfections added, abstract changed slightly
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 7341 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404090
abstract: We obtain the standard quadrature-phase positive operator-valued measure (POVM) for homodyne detection directly and rigorously from the POVM for photon counting without directly employing the mean field approximation for the local oscillator. In addition we obtain correction terms for the quadrature-phase POVM that are applicable for relatively weak local oscillator field strengths and typical signal states.

id: quant-ph/0404091
title: Ensemble teleportation
authors: Thomas Kr¨¹ger
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404091
abstract: The possibility of teleportation is by sure the most interesting consequence of quantum non-separability. So far, however, teleportation schemes have been formulated by use of state vectors and considering individual entities only. In the present article the feasibility of teleportation is examined on the basis of the rigorous ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics (not to be confused with a mere treatment of noisy EPR pairs) leading to results which are unexpected from the usual point of view.

id: quant-ph/0404092
title: Locational Qubit Realization with One-dimensional Contact Interactions
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: Talk to be presented at 10th Quantum Information Technology Symposium (QIT10), Gakushuin University, Tokyo, May 24-25, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404092
abstract: We show that the U(2) group structure of thin barriers can be adopted for quantum information processing when used in combination with environmental potential whose bouncing modes are profile preserving. Qubits are realized as wave functions localized in either side of the barrier which divides the one-dimensional system into two regions. It is argued that this model is a theoretical prototype of a robust and scalable quantum computing device. Keywords: Quantum Computation, Quantum Wire, Quantum Contact Interaction

id: quant-ph/0404093
title: Observable Phase Entanglement
authors: K. W. Chan, J. H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404093
abstract: Quantum entanglement can manifest itself in the narrowing of wavepackets. We define the phenomenon of phase entanglement and describe its effect on the interpretation of spatial localization experiments.

id: quant-ph/0404094
title: Testing QM : the Uncertainty Principle
authors: Jiri Soucek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404094
abstract: We propose the experimental test of the uncertainty principle. From sub-quantum models it follows that the uncertainty principle may be not true on short time intervals of the order of a picosecond. The positive result of this experiment would signify the limits of QM.

id: quant-ph/0404095
title: Classical simulation of Quantum Entanglement using Optical Transverse Modes in Multimode Waveguides
authors: Jian Fu, Zhijian Si, Shaofang Tang, Jian Deng
comments: RevTeX v4, 17 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phy Rev A 70, 042313 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404095
abstract: We discuss mode-entangled states based on the optical transverse modes of the optical field propagating in multi-mode waveguides, which are classical analogs of the quantum entangled states. The analogs are discussed in detail, including the violation of the Bell inequality and the correlation properties of optical pulses' group delays. The research on these analogs may be important, for it not only provides useful insights into fundamental features of quantum entanglement, but also yields new insights into quantum computation and quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0404096
title: Locking entanglement measures with a single qubit
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 5 pages, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 200501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404096
abstract: We study the loss of entanglement of bipartite state subjected to discarding or measurement of one qubit. Examining the behavior of different entanglement measures, we find that entanglement of formation, entanglement cost, and logarithmic negativity are lockable measures in that it can decrease arbitrarily after measuring one qubit. We prove that any convex and asymptotically non-continuous measure is lockable. As a consequence, all the convex roof measures can be locked. Relative entropy of entanglement is shown to be a non-lockable measure.

id: quant-ph/0404097
title: Non-local correlations as an information theoretic resource
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Noah Linden, Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio, Sandu Popescu, David Roberts
comments: Revtex. 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022101 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404097
abstract: It is well known that measurements performed on spatially separated entangled quantum systems can give rise to correlations that are non-local, in the sense that a Bell inequality is violated. They cannot, however, be used for super-luminal signalling. It is also known that it is possible to write down sets of ``super-quantum'' correlations that are more non-local than is allowed by quantum mechanics, yet are still non-signalling. Viewed as an information theoretic resource, super-quantum correlations are very powerful at reducing the amount of communication needed for distributed computational tasks. An intriguing question is why quantum mechanics does not allow these more powerful correlations. We aim to shed light on the range of quantum possibilities by placing them within a wider context. With this in mind, we investigate the set of correlations that are constrained only by the no-signalling principle. These correlations form a polytope, which contains the quantum correlations as a (proper) subset. We determine the vertices of the no-signalling polytope in the case that two observers each choose from two possible measurements with d outcomes. We then consider how interconversions between different sorts of correlations may be achieved. Finally, we consider some multipartite examples.

id: quant-ph/0404098
title: Contribution a la recherche des equations de Mouvement en Mecanique quantique et a une interpretation deterministe
authors: T. Djama
comments: Tex, 79 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404098
abstract: In this thesis, we present the deterministic approach of quantum mechanics already presented in quant-ph/0103071 (Phys. lett. A 285 (2001) 27-33) of which this thesis is the embryo.

id: quant-ph/0404099
title: Entanglement of distant electron interference experiments
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, C.C. Chong, A. Vourdas
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, two-column paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 013810 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404099
abstract: Two electron interference experiments which are far from each other are considered. They are irradiated with correlated nonclassical electromagnetic fields, produced by the same source. The phase factors are in this case operators, and their expectation values with respect to the density matrix of the electromagnetic field quantify the observed electron fringes. The correlated photons create correlations between the observed electron intensities. Both cases of classically correlated (separable) and quantum mechanically correlated (entangled) electromagnetic fields are considered. It is shown that the induced correlation between the distant electron interferences is sensitive to the nature of the correlation between the irradiating photons.

id: quant-ph/0404100
title: Weakly-entangled states are dense and robust
authors: Roman Orus, Rolf Tarrach
comments: 4 pages, final version, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 70, 050101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404100
abstract: Motivated by the mathematical definition of entanglement we undertake a rigorous analysis of the separability and non-distillability properties in the neighborhood of those three-qubit mixed states which are entangled and completely bi-separable. Our results are not only restricted to this class of quantum states, since they rest upon very general properties of mixed states and Unextendible Product Bases for any possible number of parties. Robustness against noise of the relevant properties of these states implies the significance of their possible experimental realization, therefore being of physical -and not exclusively mathematical- interest.

id: quant-ph/0404101
title: Exact solutions for universal holonomic quantum gates
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Nayereh Majd
comments: 10 pages, no figures, Accepted for Publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Rev. A, 70, 012320 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404101
abstract: We show how one can implement any local quantum gate on specific qubits in an array of qubits by carrying adiabatically a Hamiltonian around a closed loop. We find the exact form of the loop and the Hamiltonian for implementing general one and two qubits gates. Our method is analytical and is not based on numerical search in the space of all loops.

id: quant-ph/0404102
title: Sewing sound quantum flesh onto classical bones
authors: Edward D. Davis
comments: RevTeX4, 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404102
abstract: Semiclassical transformation theory implies an integral representation for stationary-state wave functions $\psi_m(q)$ in terms of angle-action variables ($\theta,J$). It is a particular solution of Schr\"{o}dinger's time-independent equation when terms of order $\hbar^2$ and higher are omitted, but the pre-exponential factor $A(q,\theta)$ in the integrand of this integral representation does not possess the correct dependence on $q$. The origin of the problem is identified: the standard unitarity condition invoked in semiclassical transformation theory does not fix adequately in $A(q,\theta)$ a factor which is a function of the action $J$ written in terms of $q$ and $\theta$. A prescription for an improved choice of this factor, based on succesfully reproducing the leading behaviour of wave functions in the vicinity of potential minima, is outlined. Exact evaluation of the modified integral representation via the Residue Theorem is possible. It yields wave functions which are not, in general, orthogonal. However, closed-form results obtained after Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization bear a striking resemblance to the exact analytical expressions for the stationary-state wave functions of the various potential models considered (namely, a P\"{o}schl-Teller oscillator and the Morse oscillator).

id: quant-ph/0404103
title: Schroedinger equation for joint bidirectional motion in time
authors: G. E. Hahne
comments: 30 pages, no figures. Related material is in quant-ph/0404012. Differs from published version by a few added remarks on the possibility of a large-scale-average negative energy density in space
journal: J.Phys.A35:7101-7123,2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404103
abstract: The conventional, time-dependent Schroedinger equation describes only unidirectional time evolution of the state of a physical system, i.e., forward or, less commonly, backward. This paper proposes a generalized quantum dynamics for the description of joint, and interactive, forward and backward time evolution within a physical system. [...] Three applications are studied: (1) a formal theory of collisions in terms of perturbation theory; (2) a relativistically invariant quantum field theory for a system that kinematically comprises the direct sum of two quantized real scalar fields, such that one field evolves forward and the other backward in time, and such that there is dynamical coupling between the subfields; (3) an argument that in the latter field theory, the dynamics predicts that in a range of values of the coupling constants, the expectation value of the vacuum energy of the universe is forced to be zero to high accuracy. [...]

id: quant-ph/0404104
title: Fault-Tolerant Postselected Quantum Computation: Threshold Analysis
authors: E. Knill
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404104
abstract: The schemes for fault-tolerant postselected quantum computation given in [Knill, Fault-Tolerant Postselected Quantum Computation: Schemes, this http URL] are analyzed to determine their error-tolerance. The analysis is based on computer-assisted heuristics. It indicates that if classical and quantum communication delays are negligible, then scalable qubit-based quantum computation is possible with errors above 1% per elementary quantum gate.

id: quant-ph/0404105
title: Wave function collapses in a single spin magnetic resonance force microscopy
authors: G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 5 pages 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 331 187 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404105
abstract: We study the effects of wave function collapses in the oscillating cantilever driven adiabatic reversals (OSCAR) magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM) technique. The quantum dynamics of the cantilever tip (CT) and the spin is analyzed and simulated taking into account the magnetic noise on the spin. The deviation of the spin from the direction of the effective magnetic field causes a measurable shift of the frequency of the CT oscillations. We show that the experimental study of this shift can reveal the information about the average time interval between the consecutive collapses of the wave function

id: quant-ph/0404106
title: Local invariants of stabilizer codes
authors: Maarten Van den Nest, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev A 70, 032323 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404106
abstract: In [Phys. Rev. A 58, 1833 (1998)] a family of polynomial invariants which separate the orbits of multi-qubit density operators $\rho$ under the action of the local unitary group was presented. We consider this family of invariants for the class of those $\rho$ which are the projection operators describing stabilizer codes and give a complete translation of these invariants into the binary framework in which stabilizer codes are usually described. Such an investigation of local invariants of quantum codes is of natural importance in quantum coding theory, since locally equivalent codes have the same error-correcting capabilities and local invariants are powerful tools to explore their structure. Moreover, the present result is relevant in the context of multipartite entanglement and the development of the measurement-based model of quantum computation known as the one-way quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0404107
title: Realization of a photonic CNOT gate sufficient for quantum computation
authors: Sara Gasparoni, Jian-Wei Pan, Philip Walther, Terry Rudolph, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages 4 figures, sumbitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev Lett. 93, 020504 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404107
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of a quantum controlled-NOT gate for different photons, which is classically feed-forwardable. In the experiment, we achieved this goal with the use only of linear optics, an entangled ancillary pair of photons and post-selection. The techniques developed in our experiment will be of significant importance for quantum information processing with linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0404108
title: Induced Magnetic Monopole from Trapped $¦«$-Type Atom
authors: P. Zhang, Y. Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J. D36 (2005) 229-233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404108
abstract: We investigate the spatial motion of the trapped atom with the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) configuration where the two Rabi transitions are coupled to two classical light fields respectively with the same detuning. When the internal degrees of freedom can be decoupled adiabatically from the spatial motion of the center of mass via the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, it is demonstrated that the lights of certain profile can provide the atom with an effective field of magnetic monopole, which is the so-called induced gauge field relevant to the Berry's phase. Such an artificial magnetic monopole structure manifests itself in the characterizing energy spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0404109
title: Robust generation of entanglement in Bose-Einstein condensates by collective atomic recoil
authors: Mary M. Cola, Matteo G. A. Paris, Nicola Piovella
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol 70, 043809 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404109
abstract: We address the dynamics induced by collective atomic recoil in a Bose-Einstein condensate in presence of radiation losses and atomic decoherence. In particular, we focus on the linear regime of the lasing mechanism, and analyze the effects of losses and decoherence on the generation of entanglement. The dynamics is that of three bosons, two atomic modes interacting with a single-mode radiation field, coupled with a bath of oscillators. The resulting three-mode dissipative Master equation is solved analytically in terms of the Wigner function. We examine in details the two complementary limits of {\em high-Q cavity} and {\em bad-cavity}, the latter corresponding to the so-called superradiant regime, both in the quasi-classical and quantum regimes. We found that three-mode entanglement as well as two-mode atom-atom and atom-radiation entanglement is generally robust against losses and decoherence,thus making the present system a good candidate for the experimental observation of entanglement in condensate systems. In particular, steady-state entanglement may be obtained both between atoms with opposite momenta and between atoms and photons.

id: quant-ph/0404110
title: Strong continuous-variable entanglement in modulated quantum dissipative dynamics
authors: H. H. Adamyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: Submited to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404110
abstract: We investigate the creation of entangled states of bright light beams obeying the condition of strong Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-like paradox criterion in time-modulated quantum dissipative dynamics. Having in view the generation of these states we propose a non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator(NOPO) driven by an amplitude-modulated pump field. We develop semi-classical and quantum theories of this device for all operational regimes concluding that, contrary to ordinary NOPO, the continuous-variable entanglement becomes approximately perfect for high level of modulation. Our analytical results are in well agreement with numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0404111
title: Interpolation of recurrence and hashing entanglement distillation protocols
authors: Karl Gerd H. Vollbrecht, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404111
abstract: We construct new entanglement distillation protocols by interpolating between the recurrence and hashing protocols. This leads to asymptotic two-way distillation protocols, resulting in an improvement of the distillation rate for all mixed Bell diagonal entangled states, even for the ones with very high fidelity. We also present a method how entanglement-assisted distillation protocols can be converted into non-entanglement-assisted protocols with the same yield.

id: quant-ph/0404112
title: Phase correlation of laser waves with arbitrary frequency spacing
authors: A. F. Huss, R. Lammegger, C. Neureiter, E. A. Korsunsky, L. Windholz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404112
abstract: The theoretically predicted correlation of laser phase fluctuations in Lambda-type interaction schemes is experimentally demonstrated. We show, that the mechanism of correlation in a Lambda scheme is restricted to high frequency noise components, whereas in a double-$\Lambda$ scheme, due to the laser phase locking in closed-loop interaction, it extends to all noise frequencies. In this case the correlation is weakly sensitive to coherence losses. Thus the double-Lambda scheme can be used to correlate e.m. fields with carrier frequency differences beyond the GHz regime.

id: quant-ph/0404113
title: Matched detectors as definers of force
authors: F. Hadi Madjid, John M. Myers
comments: 30 pages, 4 figs, LaTeX; new Introduction; new material in Secs. 4 & 5; new Sec. 6; 1 new figure, added references
journal: Annals of Physics 319 (2005) 251-273
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404113
abstract: Although quantum states nicely express interference effects, outcomes of experimental trials show no states directly; they indicate properties of probability distributions for outcomes. We prove categorically that probability distributions leave open a choice of quantum states and operators and particles, resolvable only by a move beyond logic, which, inspired or not, can be characterized as a guess. By recognizing guesswork as inescapable in choosing quantum states and particles, we free up the use of particles as theoretical inventions by which to describe experiments with devices, and thereby replace the postulate of state reductions by a theorem. By using the freedom to invent probe particles in modeling light detection, we develop a quantum model of the balancing of a light-induced force, with application to models and detecting devices by which to better distinguish one source of weak light from another. Finally, we uncover a symmetry between entangled states and entangled detectors, a dramatic example of how the judgment about what light state is generated by a source depends on choosing how to model the detector of that light.

id: quant-ph/0404114
title: Magnetic resonance in an elliptic magnetic field
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 11 pages, Latex2e, no figures; submitted to Physica B
journal: Physica B 358 (2005) 308-313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404114
abstract: The behaviour of a particle with a spin 1/2 and a dipole magnetic moment in a time-varying magnetic field in the form $(h_0 cn(\omega t,k), h_0 sn(\omega t,k), H_0 dn(\omega t,k))$, where $\omega$ is the driving field frequency, $t$ is the time, $h_0$ and $H_0$ are the field amplitudes, $cn$, $sn$, $dn$ are Jacobi elliptic functions, $ k$ is the modulus of the elliptic functions has been considered. The variation parameter $k$ from zero to 1 gives rise to a wide set of functions from trigonometric shapes to exponential pulse shapes modulating the field. The problem was reduced to the solution of general Heun' equation. The exact solution of the wave function was found at resonance for any $ k$. It has been shown that the transition probability in this case does not depend on $k$. The present study may be useful for analysis interference experiments, improving magnetic spectrometers and the field of quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0404115
title: Practical Quantum Key Distribution with Polarization-Entangled Photons
authors: A. Poppe, A. Fedrizzi, T. Loruenser, O. Maurhardt, R. Ursin, H. R. Boehm, M. Peev, M. Suda, C. Kurtsiefer, H. Weinfurter, T. Jennewein, A. Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 12, 3865-3871 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404115
abstract: We present an entangled-state quantum cryptography system that operated for the first time in a real world application scenario. The full key generation protocol was performed in real time between two distributed embedded hardware devices, which were connected by 1.45 km of optical fiber, installed for this experiment in the Vienna sewage system. The generated quantum key was immediately handed over and used by a secure communication application.

id: quant-ph/0404116
title: The nonlinear field theory II. The field representation of the Dirac electron theory
authors: Alexander G. Kyriakos
comments: 13 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404116
abstract: The present paper is the continuation of the paper "Nonlinear field theory I". In the paper it is shown that a fully correspondence between the quantum and the nonlinear electromagnetic forms of the Dirac electron theory exists, so that each element of the Dirac theory acquires the known electrodynamics meaning and reversely

id: quant-ph/0404117
title: A universal ionization threshold for strongly driven Rydberg states
authors: Andreas Krug, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404117
abstract: We observe a universal ionization threshold for microwave driven one-electron Rydberg states of H, Li, Na, and Rb, in an {\em ab initio} numerical treatment without adjustable parameters. This sheds new light on old experimental data, and widens the scene for Anderson localization in light matter interaction.

id: quant-ph/0404118
title: Decay of Quantum Correlations in Atom Optics Billiards with Chaotic and Mixed Dynamics
authors: M. F. Andersen, A. Kaplan, T. Gr¨¹nzweig, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404118
abstract: We perform echo spectroscopy on ultra cold atoms in atom optics billiards, to study their quantum dynamics. The detuning of the trapping laser is used to change the ``perturbation'', which causes a decay in the echo coherence. Two different regimes are observed: First, a perturbative regime in which the decay of echo coherence is non-monotonic and partial revivals of coherence are observed. These revivals are more pronounced in traps with mixed dynamics as compared to traps where the dynamics is fully chaotic. Next, for stronger perturbations, the decay becomes monotonic and independent of the strength of the perturbation. In this regime no clear distinction can be made between chaotic traps and traps with mixed dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0404119
title: A study on the shape of two-photon wavefunctions after the nonlinear interaction with a one-dimensional atom
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: Nonlinear Optics, Quantum Optics ocpscience. Accepted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404119
abstract: We study the interaction of Gaussian one- and two-photon pulses with a single two-level atom based on a one-dimensional model of pulse propagation to and from the atom. The characteristic time scale of the atomic response is the dipole relaxation time 1/Gamma. We therefore compare the effect of the non-linear two-photon interaction for a long pulse length of 10/Gamma with a short pulse of $1/\Gamma$. Our results indicate that the effect of the non-linear interaction is particularly strong for the short pulse length of 1/Gamma.

id: quant-ph/0404120
title: Fine-grained entanglement loss along renormalization group flows
authors: J.I. Latorre, C.A. Lutken, E. Rico, G. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev. A71 (2005) 034301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404120
abstract: We explore entanglement loss along renormalization group trajectories as a basic quantum information property underlying their irreversibility. This analysis is carried out for the quantum Ising chain as a transverse magnetic field is changed. We consider the ground-state entanglement between a large block of spins and the rest of the chain. Entanglement loss is seen to follow from a rigid reordering, satisfying the majorization relation, of the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix for the spin block. More generally, our results indicate that it may be possible to prove the irreversibility along RG trajectories from the properties of the vacuum only, without need to study the whole hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0404121
title: An Analysis of Stapp's "A Bell-type theorem without hidden variables"
authors: Abner Shimony
comments: 10 pages, no figures, for Asher Peres's festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404121
abstract: H. P. Stapp has proposed a number of demonstrations of a Bell-type theorem which dispensed with an assumption of hidden variables, but relied only upon locality together with an assumption that experimenters can choose freely which of several incompatible observables to measure. In recent papers his strategy has centered upon counterfactual conditionals. Stapp's paper in American Journal of Physics, 2004, replies to objections raised against earlier expositions of this strategy and proposes a simplified demonstration. The new demonstration is criticized, several subtleties in the logic of counterfactuals are pointed out, and the proofs of J. S. Bell and his followers are advocated.

id: quant-ph/0404122
title: On the Quantumness of a Hilbert Space
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 11 pages, no figures, for the Holevo festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404122
abstract: We derive an exact expression for the quantumness of a Hilbert space (defined in quant-ph/0302092), and show that in composite Hilbert spaces the signal states must contain at least some entangled states in order to achieve such a sensitivity. Furthermore, we establish that the accessible fidelity for symmetric informationally complete signal ensembles is equal to the quantumness. Though spelling the most trouble for an eavesdropper because of this, it turns out that the accessible fidelity is nevertheless easy for her to achieve in this case: Any measurement consisting of rank-one POVM elements is an optimal measurement, and the simple procedure of reproducing the projector associated with the measurement outcome is an optimal output strategy. Two and epsilon elevator stories are added for entertainment.

id: quant-ph/0404123
title: Superselection from canonical constraints
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: MiKTex 2.3, no figures, minor clarifications, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 7799-7812
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404123
abstract: The evolution of both quantum and classical ensembles may be described via the probability density P on configuration space, its canonical conjugate S, and an_ensemble_ Hamiltonian H[P,S]. For quantum ensembles this evolution is, of course, equivalent to the Schroedinger equation for the wavefunction, which is linear. However, quite simple constraints on the canonical fields P and S correspond to_nonlinear_ constraints on the wavefunction. Such constraints act to prevent certain superpositions of wavefunctions from being realised, leading to superselection-type rules. Examples leading to superselection for energy, spin-direction and `classicality' are given. The canonical formulation of the equations of motion, in terms of a probability density and its conjugate, provides a universal language for describing classical and quantum ensembles on both continuous and discrete configuration spaces, and is briefly reviewed in an appendix.

id: quant-ph/0404124
title: Distribution of time-bin qubits over 50 km of optical fiber
authors: I. Marcikic, H. de Riedmatten, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden, M. Legre, N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404124
abstract: We report experimental distribution of time-bin entangled qubits over 50 km of optical fibers. Using actively stabilized preparation and measurement devices we demonstrate violation of the CHSH Bell inequality by more than 15 standard deviations without removing the detector noise. In addition we report a proof of principle experiment of quantum key distribution over 50 km of optical fibers using entangled photon.

id: quant-ph/0404125
title: Unifying Quantum Computation with Projective Measurements only and One-Way Quantum Computation
authors: Philippe Jorrand, Simon Perdrix
comments: 9 pages, submitted to QI 2004
journal: Proc. SPIE, Quantum Informatics (QI'04), Vol. 5833, 44 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404125
abstract: Quantum measurement is universal for quantum computation. Two models for performing measurement-based quantum computation exist: the one-way quantum computer was introduced by Briegel and Raussendorf, and quantum computation via projective measurements only by Nielsen. The more recent development of this second model is based on state transfers instead of teleportation. From this development, a finite but approximate quantum universal family of observables is exhibited, which includes only one two-qubit observable, while others are one-qubit observables. In this article, an infinite but exact quantum universal family of observables is proposed, including also only one two-qubit observable. The rest of the paper is dedicated to compare these two models of measurement-based quantum computation, i.e. one-way quantum computation and quantum computation via projective measurements only. From this comparison, which was initiated by Cirac and Verstraete, closer and more natural connections appear between these two models. These close connections lead to a unified view of measurement-based quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0404126
title: Lieb's simple proof of concavity of Tr A^p K^* B^(1-p) K and remarks on related inequalities
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Version 3 contains Appendix C, which corrects some flaws in the presentation of the proof of the main theorem
journal: International Jour. Quant. Info 3, 570--590 (2005); erratum 4, 747-748 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404126
abstract: A simple, self-contained proof is presented for the concavity of the map (A,B) --> Tr(A^p K^* B^(1-p) K). The author makes no claim to originality; this note gives Lieb's original argument in its simplest, rather than its most general, form. A sketch of the chain of implications from this result to concavity of A --> Tr e^[K + log(A)] is then presented. An independent elementary proof is given for the joint convexity of the map (A,B,X) --> Tr \int X^* (A+ uI)^{-1} X (B+ uI)^{-1} du which plays a key role in entropy inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0404127
title: 6th order robust pulses for quantum control
authors: D. Mc Hugh, J. Twamley
comments: Changes made to last section and references;5 pages;Figure added;Accepted in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404127
abstract: Composite pulse sequences designed for nuclear magnetic resonance experiments are currently being applied in many quantum information processing technologies.We present an analysis of a family of composite pulse sequences used to address systematic pulse-length errors in the execution of quantum gates. It has been demonstrated by Cummins et al. [Phys. Rev. A 67, 042308 (2003)] that for this family of composite pulse sequences, the fidelity of the resulting unitary operation compared with the ideal unitary operation is 1+C*epsilon^6, where epsilon is the fractional error in the length of the pulse. We derive an exact expression for the 6th order coefficient, C, and from this deduce conditions under which this 6th order dependance is observed. We also present new pulse sequences which achieve the same fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0404128
title: How to teach Quantum Mechanics
authors: Oliver Passon
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 25 (2004) 765-769
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404128
abstract: In the spirit and style of John S. Bell's well known paper on How to Teach Special Relativity it is argued, that a ``Bohmian pedagogy''provides a very useful tool to illustrate the relation between classical and quantum physics and illuminates the peculiar features of the latter.

id: quant-ph/0404129
title: Experimental demonstration of a non-destructive controlled-NOT quantum gate for two independent photon-qubits
authors: Zhi Zhao, An-Ning Zhang, Yu-Ao Chen, Han Zhang, Jiangfeng Du, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 030501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404129
abstract: Universal logic gates for two quantum bits (qubits) form an essential ingredient of quantum information processing. However, the photons, one of the best candidates for qubits, suffer from the lack of strong nonlinear coupling required for quantum logic operations. Here we show how this drawback can be overcome by reporting a proof-of-principle experimental demonstration of a non-destructive controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for two independent photons using only linear optical elements in conjunction with single-photon sources and conditional dynamics. Moreover, we have exploited the CNOT gate to discriminate all the four Bell-states in a teleportation experiment.

id: quant-ph/0404130
title: On probability, indeterminism and quantum paradoxes
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404130
abstract: If the quantum mechanical description of reality is not complete and a hidden variable theory is possible, what arises is the problem to explain where the rates of the outcomes of statistical experiments come from, as already noticed by Land\'e and Popper. In this paper this problem is investigated, and a new "paradigm" about the nature of dynamical and statistical laws is proposed. This paradigm proposes some concepts which contrast with the usual intuitive view of evolution and of physical law, such as: initial conditions could play no privileged role in determining the evolution of the universe; the statistical distribution of the particles emitted by a source could depend on the future interactions of the particles; indeterministic trajectories can be defined by the least action principle. This paradigm is applied to the analysis of the two-slit experiment and of the EPR paradox, and a coherent picture for these phenomena is proposed; this new picture shows how the well known difficulties in completing the quantum mechanical description of reality could be overcome.

id: quant-ph/0404131
title: Secure quantum channels with correlated twin laser beams
authors: Constantin V. Usenko, Vladyslav C. Usenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404131
abstract: This work is the development and analysis of the recently proposed quantum cryptographic protocol, based on the use of the two-mode coherently correlated states. The protocol is supplied with the cryptographic control procedures. The quantum noise influence on the channel error properties is examined. State detection features are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0404132
title: Unified derivations of measurement-based schemes for quantum computation
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie W. Leung, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404132
abstract: We present unified, systematic derivations of schemes in the two known measurement-based models of quantum computation. The first model (introduced by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Lett., 86, 5188 (2001)]) uses a fixed entangled state, adaptive measurements on single qubits, and feedforward of the measurement results. The second model (proposed by Nielsen [Phys. Lett. A, 308, 96 (2003)] and further simplified by Leung [Int. J. Quant. Inf., 2, 33 (2004)]) uses adaptive two-qubit measurements that can be applied to arbitrary pairs of qubits, and feedforward of the measurement results. The underlying principle of our derivations is a variant of teleportation introduced by Zhou, Leung, and Chuang [Phys. Rev. A, 62, 052316 (2000)]. Our derivations unify these two measurement-based models of quantum computation and provide significantly simpler schemes.

id: quant-ph/0404133
title: Multi-partite quantum cryptographic protocols with noisy GHZ states
authors: Kai Chen, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: Revised Version, 21 pages, 7 figures. We have added a third-man cryptography protocol. Our protocols for the three cryptographic tasks can be implemented with the generation of only a single entangled pair at a time. This gives significant simplification over previous experimental implementations which require two entangled pairs generated simultaneously
journal: Quantum Information & Computation Vol.7, No.8 (2007) 689-715
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404133
abstract: We propose a wide class of distillation schemes for multi-partite entangled states that are CSS-states. Our proposal provides not only superior efficiency, but also new insights on the connection between CSS-states and bipartite graph states. We then apply our distillation schemes to the tri-partite case for three cryptographic tasks--namely, (a) conference key agreement, (b) quantum sharing of classical secrets and (c) third-man cryptography. Moreover, we construct ``prepare-and-measure'' protocols for the above three cryptographic tasks which can be implemented with the generation of only a single entangled pair at a time. This gives significant simplification over previous experimental implementations which require two entangled pairs generated simultaneously. We also study the yields of those protocols and the threshold values of the fidelity above which the protocols can function securely. Rather surprisingly, our protocols will function securely even when the initial state does not violate the standard Bell-inequalities for GHZ states.

id: quant-ph/0404134
title: Are All Particles Real?
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, James Taylor, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 11 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor changes
journal: Stud.Hist.Philos.Mod.Phys. 36 (2005) 103-112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404134
abstract: In Bohmian mechanics elementary particles exist objectively, as point particles moving according to a law determined by a wavefunction. In this context, questions as to whether the particles of a certain species are real--questions such as, Do photons exist? Electrons? Or just the quarks?--have a clear meaning. We explain that, whatever the answer, there is a corresponding Bohm-type theory, and no experiment can ever decide between these theories. Another question that has a clear meaning is whether particles are intrinsically distinguishable, i.e., whether particle world lines have labels indicating the species. We discuss the intriguing possibility that the answer is no, and particles are points--just points.

id: quant-ph/0404135
title: Model for resonant photon creation in a cavity with time dependent conductivity
authors: Martin Crocce, Diego A.R. Dalvit, Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404135
abstract: In an electromagnetic cavity, photons can be created from the vacuum state by changing the cavity's properties with time. Using a simple model based on a massless scalar field, we analyze resonant photon creation induced by the time-dependent conductivity of a thin semiconductor film contained in the cavity. This time dependence may be achieved by irradiating periodically the film with short laser pulses. This setup offers several experimental advantages over the case of moving mirrors.

id: quant-ph/0404136
title: An approximation to $¦Ä'$ couplings on graphs
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, 1 figure added, to be published in J. of Phys. A
journal: Journal of Physics A37 (2004) L329-L335.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404136
abstract: We discuss a general parametrization for vertices of quantum graphs and show, in particular, how the $\delta'_s$ and $\delta'$ coupling at an $n$ edge vertex can be approximated by means of $n+1$ couplings of the $\delta$ type provided the latter are properly scaled.

id: quant-ph/0404137
title: Minimal Informationally Complete Measurements for Pure States
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Andrew Silberfarb, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 2 figures, submitted for the Asher Peres festschrift
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 35, Issue 12, Dec 2005, pp. 1985 - 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404137
abstract: We consider measurements, described by a positive-operator-valued measure (POVM), whose outcome probabilities determine an arbitrary pure state of a D-dimensional quantum system. We call such a measurement a pure-state informationally complete (PSI-complete) POVM. We show that a measurement with 2D-1 outcomes cannot be PSI-complete, and then we construct a POVM with 2D outcomes that suffices, thus showing that a minimal PSI-complete POVM has 2D outcomes. We also consider PSI-complete POVMs that have only rank-one POVM elements and construct an example with 3D-2 outcomes, which is a generalization of the tetrahedral measurement for a qubit. The question of the minimal number of elements in a rank-one PSI-complete POVM is left open.

id: quant-ph/0404138
title: Diffraction and trapping in circular lattices
authors: H. L. Haroutyunyan, G. Nienhuis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404138
abstract: When a single two-level atom interacts with a pair of Laguerre-Gaussian beams with opposite helicity, this leads to an efficient exchange of angular momentum between the light field and the atom. When the radial motion is trapped by an additional potential, the wave function of a single localized atom can be split into components that rotate in opposite direction. This suggests a novel scheme for atom interferometry without mirror pulses. Also atoms in this configuration can be bound into a circular lattice.

id: quant-ph/0404139
title: Conditional sign flip via teleportation
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Ferdinando de Pasquale, Simone Paganelli
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 022319 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404139
abstract: We present a model to realize a probabilistic conditional sign flip gate using only linear optics. The gate operates in the space of number state qubits and is obtained by a nonconventional use of the teleportation protocol. Both a destructive and a nondestructive version of the gate are presented. In the former case an Hadamard gate on the control qubit is combined with a projective teleportation scheme mixing control and target. The success probability is 1/2. In the latter case we need a quantum encoder realized via the interaction of the control qubit with an ancillary state composed of two maximally entangled photons. The success probability is 1/4.

id: quant-ph/0404140
title: Entangling two mode thermal fields through quantum erasing
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, a minor mistake is corrected
journal: Physics Letters A 337 (4-6): 321 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404140
abstract: We investigate a possible scheme for entangling two mode thermal fields through the quantum erasing process, in which an atom is coupled with two mode fields via the interaction governed by the two-mode two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model. The influence of phase decoherence on the entanglement of two mode fields is discussed. It is found that quantum erasing process can transfer part of entanglement between the atom and fields to two mode fields initially in the thermal states. The entanglement achieved by fields heavily depends on their initial temperature and the detuning. The entanglement of stationary state is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0404141
title: Probabilistic implementation of universal Hadamard and Unitary gates
authors: Wei Song, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 330, 155-160 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404141
abstract: We show that the Hadamard and Unitary gates could be implemented by a unitary evolution together with a measurement for any unknown state chosen from a set $A = {{| {\Psi_i} > ,| {\bar {\Psi}_i} >}}({i = 1,2})$ if and only if $| {\Psi_1} > ,| {\Psi_2} > ,| {\bar {\Psi}_1} > ,| {\bar {\Psi}_2} >$ are linearly independent. We also derive the best transformation efficiencies.

id: quant-ph/0404142
title: Zero-Point cooling and low heating of trapped 111Cd+ ions
authors: L. Deslauriers, P. C. Haljan, P. J. Lee, K-A. Brickman, B. B. Blinov, M. J. Madsen, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404142
abstract: We report on ground state laser cooling of single 111Cd+ ions confined in radio-frequency (Paul) traps. Heating rates of trapped ion motion are measured for two different trapping geometries and electrode materials, where no effort was made to shield the electrodes from the atomic Cd source. The low measured heating rates suggest that trapped 111Cd+ ions may be well-suited for experiments involving quantum control of atomic motion, including applications in quantum information science.

id: quant-ph/0404143
title: An algorithm for simulating the Ising model on a type-II quantum computer
authors: J. H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg, S. Prawer
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures. Accepted for publication in Computer Physics Communications
journal: Computer Physics Communications, Vol. 161 (1-2), pg 18-26, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404143
abstract: Presented here is an algorithm for a type-II quantum computer which simulates the Ising model in one and two dimensions. It is equivalent to the Metropolis Monte-Carlo method and takes advantage of quantum superposition for random number generation. This algorithm does not require the ensemble of states to be measured at the end of each iteration, as is required for other type-II algorithms. Only the binary result is measured at each node which means this algorithm could be implemented using a range of different quantum computing architectures. The Ising model provides an example of how cellular automata rules can be formulated to be run on a type-II quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0404144
title: Spin Gauge Fields: from Berry Phase to Topological Spin Transport and Hall Effects
authors: K. Yu. Bliokh, Yu. P. Bliokh
comments: 28 pages, the final (journal) version
journal: Annals Phys. 319 (2005) 13-47
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404144
abstract: The paper examines the emergence of gauge fields during the evolution of a particle with a spin that is described by a matrix Hamiltonian with n different eigenvalues. It is shown that by introducing a spin gauge field a particle with a spin can be described as a spin multiplet of scalar particles situated in a non-Abelian pure gauge (forceless) field U(n). As the result, one can create a theory of particle evolution that is gauge invariant with regards to the group U^n(1). Due to this, in the adiabatic (Abelian) approximation the spin gauge field is an analogue of n electromagnetic fields U(1) on the extended phase space of the particle. These fields are force ones, and the forces of their action enter the particle motion equations that are derived in the paper in the general form. The motion equations describe the topological spin transport, pumping and splitting. The Berry phase is represented in this theory analogously to the Dirac phase of a particle in an electromagnetic field. Due to the analogy with the electromagnetic field, the theory becomes natural in the four-dimensional form. Besides the general theory the article considers a number of important particular examples, both known and new.

id: quant-ph/0404145
title: Knowledge excess duality and violation of Bell inequalities
authors: R. Filip, M. Gavenda
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404145
abstract: A constraint on two complementary knowledge excesses by maximal violation of Bell inequalities for a single copy of any mixed state of two qubits $S,M$ is analyzed. The complementary knowledge excesses ${\bf \Delta K}(\Pi_{M}\to \Pi_{S})$ and ${\bf \Delta K}(\Pi'_{M}\to \Pi'_{S})$ quantify an enhancement of ability to predict results of the complementary projective measurements $\Pi_{S},\Pi'_{S}$ on the qubit $S$ from the projective measurements $\Pi_{M},\Pi'_{M}$ performed on the qubit $M$. For any state $\rho_{SM}$ and for arbitrary $\Pi_{S},\Pi'_{S}$ and $\Pi_{M},\Pi'_{M}$, the knowledge excesses satisfy the following inequality ${\bf \Delta K}^{2}(\Pi_{M}\to \Pi_{S})+{\bf \Delta K}^{2} (\Pi'_{M}\to \Pi'_{S})\leq (B_{max}/2)^2$, where $B_{max}$ is maximum of violation of Bell inequalities under single-copy local operations (local filtering and unitary transformations). Particularly, for the Bell-diagonal states only an appropriate choice of the measurements $\Pi_{S},\Pi'_{S}$ and $\Pi_{M},\Pi'_{M}$ are sufficient to saturate the inequality.

id: quant-ph/0404146
title: Measurement-Based Quantum Turing Machines and their Universality
authors: Simon Perdrix, Philippe Jorrand
comments: 13 pages, based upon quant-ph/0402156 with significant improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404146
abstract: Quantum measurement is universal for quantum computation. This universality allows alternative schemes to the traditional three-step organisation of quantum computation: initial state preparation, unitary transformation, measurement. In order to formalize these other forms of computation, while pointing out the role and the necessity of classical control in measurement-based computation, and for establishing a new upper bound of the minimal resources needed to quantum universality, a formal model is introduced by means of Measurement-based Quantum Turing Machines.

id: quant-ph/0404147
title: Adiabatic approximation in open quantum systems
authors: M. S. Sarandy, D. A. Lidar
comments: v4: 13 pages, 1 figure. Published version. v3: Time condition for adiabaticity improved and references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012331 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404147
abstract: We generalize the standard quantum adiabatic approximation to the case of open quantum systems. We define the adiabatic limit of an open quantum system as the regime in which its dynamical superoperator can be decomposed in terms of independently evolving Jordan blocks. We then establish validity and invalidity conditions for this approximation and discuss their applicability to superoperators changing slowly in time. As an example, the adiabatic evolution of a two-level open system is analysed.

id: quant-ph/0404148
title: Multiple-copy entanglement transformation and entanglement catalysis
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Xin Li, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 11 pages, RevTex 4. Main results unchanged. Journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042319 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404148
abstract: We prove that any multiple-copy entanglement transformation [S. Bandyopadhyay, V. Roychowdhury, and U. Sen, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{65}, 052315 (2002)] can be implemented by a suitable entanglement-assisted local transformation [D. Jonathan and M. B. Plenio, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{83}, 3566 (1999)]. Furthermore, we show that the combination of multiple-copy entanglement transformation and the entanglement-assisted one is still equivalent to the pure entanglement-assisted one. The mathematical structure of multiple-copy entanglement transformations then is carefully investigated. Many interesting properties of multiple-copy entanglement transformations are presented, which exactly coincide with those satisfied by the entanglement-assisted ones. Most interestingly, we show that an arbitrarily large number of copies of state should be considered in multiple-copy entanglement transformations.

id: quant-ph/0404149
title: Quantum metastability in a class of moving potentials
authors: Chung-Chieh Lee, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 10 pages, 1 figures
journal: PRA65, 022111 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404149
abstract: In this paper we consider quantum metastability in a class of moving potentials introduced by Berry and Klein. Potential in this class has its height and width scaled in a specific way so that it can be transformed into a stationary one. In deriving the non-decay probability of the system, we argue that the appropriate technique to use is the less known method of scattering states. This method is illustrated through two examples, namely, a moving delta-potential and a moving barrier potential. For expanding potentials, one finds that a small but finite non-decay probability persists at large times. Generalization to scaling potentials of arbitrary shape is briefly indicated.

id: quant-ph/0404150
title: Stabilizing quantum metastable states in a time-periodic potential
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Chung-Chieh Lee
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A71, 012102 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404150
abstract: Metastability of a particle trapped in a well with a time-periodically oscillating barrier is studied in the Floquet formalism. It is shown that the oscillating barrier causes the system to decay faster in general. However, avoided crossings of metastable states can occur with the less stable states crossing over to the more stable ones. If in the static well there exists a bound state, then it is possible to stabilize a metastable state by adiabatically increasing the oscillating frequency of the barrier so that the unstable state eventually cross-over to the stable bound state. It is also found that increasing the amplitude of the oscillating field may change a direct crossing of states into an avoided one.

id: quant-ph/0404151
title: Entangled states that cannot reproduce original classical games in their quantum version
authors: Junichi Shimamura, ?ahin Kaya ?zdemir, Fumiaki Morikoshi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, 328, 20-25 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404151
abstract: A model of a quantum version of classical games should reproduce the original classical games in order to be able to make a comparative analysis of quantum and classical effects. We analyze a class of symmetric multipartite entangled states and their effect on the reproducibility of the classical games. We present the necessary and sufficient condition for the reproducibility of the original classical games. Satisfying this condition means that complete orthogonal bases can be constructed from a given multipartite entangled state provided that each party is restricted to two local unitary operators. We prove that most of the states belonging to the class of symmetric states with respect to permutations, including the N-qubit W state, do not satisfy this condition.

id: quant-ph/0404152
title: Optimal state encoding for quantum walks and quantum communication over spin systems
authors: Henry L. Haselgrove
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, 7 EPS figures. Corrected an error in the definition and interpretation of C_B(T)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062326 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404152
abstract: Recent work has shown that a simple chain of interacting spins can be used as a medium for high-fidelity quantum communication. We describe a scheme for quantum communication using a spin system that conserves z-spin, but otherwise is arbitrary. The sender and receiver are assumed to directly control several spins each, with the sender encoding the message state onto the larger state-space of her control spins. We show how to find the encoding that maximises the fidelity of communication, using a simple method based on the singular-value decomposition. Also, we show that this solution can be used to increase communication fidelity in a rather different circumstance: where no encoding of initial states is used, but where the sender and receiver control exactly two spins each and vary the interactions on those spins over time. The methods presented are computationally efficient, and numerical examples are given for systems having up to 300 spins.

id: quant-ph/0404153
title: Information Systems Self-description and Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: S.Mayburov
comments: 11 pages, Latex, Talk given on VI Quantum structures Conference, Vienna, July 2002, To appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404153
abstract: Information-Theoretical restrictions on the systems self-descriptions are applied to Quantum Measurements Theory. For the quantum object S measurement by information system O such restrictions are described by the restricted states formalism by Breuer. The analogous restrictions obtained in Algebraic QM from the analysis of Segal algebra U of O observables; O restricted states set is defined as U dual space. From Segal theorem for the associative subalgebra it's shown that such states describe the random pointer outcomes observed by O in the individual events.

id: quant-ph/0404154
title: Catalyst-assisted Probabilistic Entanglement Transformation
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 12 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, Vol. 51, No. 3, pp. 1090-1101, Mar. (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404154
abstract: We are concerned with catalyst-assisted probabilistic entanglement transformations. A necessary and sufficient condition is presented under which there exist partial catalysts that can increase the maximal transforming probability of a given entanglement transformation. We also design an algorithm which leads to an efficient method for finding the most economical partial catalysts with minimal dimension. The mathematical structure of catalyst-assisted probabilistic transformation is carefully investigated.

id: quant-ph/0404155
title: Quantum bit detector
authors: M.P.Klembovsky, M.L.Gorodetsky, Th.Becker, H.Walther
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: JETP Letters, v.79, No 9, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404155
abstract: We propose and analyze an experimental scheme of quantum nondemolition detection of monophotonic and vacuum states in a superconductive toroidal cavity by means of Rydberg atoms.

id: quant-ph/0404156
title: Unknown Quantum States and Operations, a Bayesian View
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures, to appear in "Quantum Estimation Theory," edited by M.G.A. Paris and J. Rehacek (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404156
abstract: The classical de Finetti theorem provides an operational definition of the concept of an unknown probability in Bayesian probability theory, where probabilities are taken to be degrees of belief instead of objective states of nature. In this paper, we motivate and review two results that generalize de Finetti's theorem to the quantum mechanical setting: Namely a de Finetti theorem for quantum states and a de Finetti theorem for quantum operations. The quantum-state theorem, in a closely analogous fashion to the original de Finetti theorem, deals with exchangeable density-operator assignments and provides an operational definition of the concept of an "unknown quantum state" in quantum-state tomography. Similarly, the quantum-operation theorem gives an operational definition of an "unknown quantum operation" in quantum-process tomography. These results are especially important for a Bayesian interpretation of quantum mechanics, where quantum states and (at least some) quantum operations are taken to be states of belief rather than states of nature.

id: quant-ph/0404157
title: Resonant cavity photon creation via the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: Michael Uhlmann, G¨¹nter Plunien, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Gerhard Soff
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404157
abstract: Motivated by a recent proposal for an experimental verification of the dynamical Casimir effect, the macroscopic electromagnetic field within a perfect cavity containing a thin slab with a time-dependent dielectric permittivity is quantized in terms of the dual potentials. For the resonance case, the number of photons created out of the vacuum due to the dynamical Casimir effect is calculated for both polarizations (TE and TM). PACS: 42.50.Lc, 03.70.+k, 42.50.Dv, 42.60.Da.

id: quant-ph/0404158
title: Two-dimensional Nanolithography Using Atom Interferometry
authors: A. Gangat, P. Pradhan, G. Pati, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 043606 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404158
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for the lithography of arbitrary, two-dimensional nanostructures via matter-wave interference. The required quantum control is provided by a pi/2-pi-pi/2 atom interferometer with an integrated atom lens system. The lens system is developed such that it allows simultaneous control over atomic wave-packet spatial extent, trajectory, and phase signature. We demonstrate arbitrary pattern formations with two-dimensional 87Rb wavepackets through numerical simulations of the scheme in a practical parameter space. Prospects for experimental realizations of the lithography scheme are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0404159
title: A new mathematical representation of Game Theory, I
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: 26 pages, 3 figs, a long paper filled with mistakes and ideas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404159
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a framework of new mathematical representation of Game Theory, including static classical game and static quantum game. The idea is to find a set of base vectors in every single-player strategy space and to define their inner product so as to form them as a Hilbert space, and then form a Hilbert space of system state. Basic ideas, concepts and formulas in Game Theory have been reexpressed in such a space of system state. This space provides more possible strategies than traditional classical game and traditional quantum game. So besides those two games, more games have been defined in different strategy spaces. All the games have been unified in the new representation and their relation has been discussed. General Nash Equilibrium for all the games has been proposed but without a general proof of the existence. Besides the theoretical description, ideas and technics from Statistical Physics, such as Kinetics Equation and Thermal Equilibrium can be easily incorporated into Game Theory through such a representation. This incorporation gives an endogenous method for refinement of Equilibrium State and some hits to simplify the calculation of Equilibrium State. The more privileges of this new representation depends on further application on more theoretical and real games. Here, almost all ideas and conclusions are shown by examples and argument, while, we wish, lately, we can give mathematical proof for most results.

id: quant-ph/0404160
title: Cooling many particles at once
authors: Almut Beige, Peter L. Knight, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 11 pages, 2 figure, minor changes, accepted for publication in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 96 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404160
abstract: We propose a mechanism for the collective cooling of a large number N of trapped particles to very low temperatures by applying red-detuned laser fields and coupling them to the quantized field inside an optical resonator. The dynamics is described by what appears to be rate equations, but where some of the major quantities are coherences and not populations. The cooperative behavior of the system provides cooling rates of the same order of magnitude as the cavity decay rate kappa. This constitutes a significant speed-up compared to other cooling mechanisms since kappa can, in principle, be as large as square root of N times the single-particle cavity or laser coupling constant.

id: quant-ph/0404161
title: Finite-Time Disentanglement via Spontaneous Emission
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 140404 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404161
abstract: We show that under the influence of pure vacuum noise two entangled qubits become completely disentangled in a finite time, and in a specific example we find the time to be given by $\ln \Big(\frac{2 +\sqrt 2}{2}\Big)$ times the usual spontaneous lifetime.

id: quant-ph/0404162
title: Mixed state non-Abelian holonomy for subsystems
authors: Mikael Nordling, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012110 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404162
abstract: Non-Abelian holonomy in dynamical systems may arise in adiabatic transport of energetically degenerate sets of states. We examine such a holonomy structure for mixtures of energetically degenerate quantal states. We demonstrate that this structure has a natural interpretation in terms of the standard Wilczek-Zee holonomy associated with a certain class of Hamiltonians that couple the system to an ancilla. The mixed state holonomy is analysed for holonomic quantum computation using ion traps.

id: quant-ph/0404163
title: Efficient quantum computation within a disordered Heisenberg spin-chain
authors: Chiu Fan Lee, Neil F. Johnson
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052322 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404163
abstract: We show that efficient quantum computation is possible using a disordered Heisenberg spin-chain with `always-on' couplings. Such disorder occurs naturally in nanofabricated systems. Considering a simple chain setup, we show that an arbitrary two-qubit gate can be implemented using just three relaxations of a controlled qubit, which amounts to switching the on-site energy terms at most twenty-one times.

id: quant-ph/0404164
title: Local Versus Global Thermal States: Correlations and the Existence of Local Temperatures
authors: M. Hartmann, G. Mahler, O. Hess
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, discussion of results extended, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 066148 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404164
abstract: We consider a quantum system consisting of a regular chain of elementary subsystems with nearest neighbor interactions and assume that the total system is in a canonical state with temperature $T$. We analyze under what condition the state factors into a product of canonical density matrices with respect to groups of $n$ subsystems each, and when these groups have the same temperature $T$. While in classical mechanics the validity of this procedure only depends on the size of the groups $n$, in quantum mechanics the minimum group size $n_{min}$ also depends on the temperature $T $! As examples, we apply our analysis to a harmonic chain and different types of Ising spin chains. We discuss various features that show up due to the characteristics of the models considered. For the harmonic chain, which successfully describes thermal properties of insulating solids, our approach gives a first quantitative estimate of the minimal length scale on which temperature can exist: This length scale is found to be constant for temperatures above the Debye temperature and proportional to $T^{-3}$ below.

id: quant-ph/0404165
title: Interpretation of Uncertainty Relations for Three or More Observables
authors: M. I. Shirokov
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404165
abstract: Conventional quantum uncertainty relations (URs) contain dispersions of two observables. Generalized URs are known which contain three or more dispersions. They are derived here starting with suitable generalized Cauchy inequalities. It is shown what new information the generalized URs provide. Similar interpretation is given to generalized Cauchy inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0404166
title: Path integral formulation of quantized fields
authors: S. R. Vatsya
comments: Original version: 10 pages. New version: 11 pages. Changes made: 1. Compensating errors in Eqs. (6) and (9) corrected. 2. Manuscript adjusted for consistency with Eqs. (6) and (9). 3. Minor adjustments made to the text for clarification
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404166
abstract: Physical path integral formulation of motion of particles in Riemannian spaces is outlined and extended to deduce the corresponding field theoretical formulation. For the special case of a zero rest mass particle in Minkowski manifold, it is shown that the underlying space can be reduced to three-dimensional while similar formulation for a massive particle requires a four-dimensional structure. The solutions obtained by the present procedure are compared with the results obtained from its counterpart for a massive particle by setting the mass equal to zero. Although similar, the present formulation has some additional implications pertaining to the energy spectrum and the associated free field quantization, particularly it yields zero vacuum energy. The results are naturally extended to higher dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0404167
title: A General Criterion of Quantum Integrability Accommodating Central Charges and Anomalies
authors: P.P.Divakaran
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404167
abstract: A simple quantum generalisation of the Liouville-Arnold criterion of classical integrability is proposed: A system is quantum-integrable if it has an abelian Lie group of Wigner symmetries of dimension equal to the number of degrees of freedom. The criterion goes significantly beyond the familiar case of involutive conserved operators to cover systems with anomalies in which involutivity is modified by central charges. "Anomalous" quantum integrability is shown to have all the expected consequences including exact diagonalisability. The approach throws new light on the origin of Weyl group invariance.

id: quant-ph/0404168
title: Cliffordization, Spin and Fermionic Star Products
authors: Allen C. Hirshfeld, Peter Henselder, Thomas Spernat
comments: 21 pages
journal: Annals Phys. 314 (2004) 75-98
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404168
abstract: Deformation quantization is a powerful tool for quantizing theories with bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom. The star products involved generate the mathematical structures which have recently been used in attempts to analyze the algebraic properties of quantum field theory. In the context of quantum mechanics they provide a canonical quantization procedure for systems with either bosonic of fermionic degrees of freedom. We illustrate this procedure for a number a physical examples, including bosonic, fermionic and supersymmetric oscillators. We show how non-relativistic and relativistic particles with spin can be naturally described in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0404169
title: Comments on Shimony's Analysis
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: For: Festschrift in honor of Asher Peres in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404169
abstract: Shimony's method of analysis does not distinguish adequately between a legitimate assumption of no faster-than-light action in one direction and the to-be-proved assertion of faster-than-light transfer of information in the other direction. The virtue is noted of replacing the logical framework based on counterfactual concepts by one based on the concept of fixed past open future.

id: quant-ph/0404170
title: A genetic algorithm for finding pulse sequences for NMR quantum computing
authors: M.J. Rethinam, A.K. Javali, E.C. Behrman, J.E. Steck, S.R. Skinner
comments: 10 pages. Submitted to PRA
journal: Paritantra - Journal of Systems Science and Engineering 20, 32-42 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404170
abstract: We present a genetic algorithm for finding a set of pulse sequences, or rotations, for a given quantum logic gate, as implemented by NMR. We demonstrate the utility of the method by showing that shorter sequences than have been previously published can be found for both a CNOT and for the central part of Shor's algorithm (for N=15.) Artificial intelligence techniques like the genetic algorithm here presented have an enormous potential for simplifying the implementation of working quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0404171
title: Entanglement dynamics in chaotic systems
authors: Shohini Ghose, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062315 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404171
abstract: We study quantum chaos for systems with more than one degree of freedom, for which we present an analysis of the dynamics of entanglement. Our analysis explains the main features of entanglement dynamics and identifies entanglement-based signatures of quantum chaos. We discuss entanglement dynamics for a feasible experiment involving an atom in a magneto-optical trap and compare the results with entanglement dynamics for the well-studied quantum kicked top.

id: quant-ph/0404172
title: Generalized Measurement and Conclusive Teleportation with Nonmaximal Entanglement
authors: Hyunjae Kim, Yong Wook Cheong, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, Two columns, LaTex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404172
abstract: We present linear optical schemes to perform generalized measurements for conclusive teleportation when the sender and the receiver share nonmaximal entanglement resulting from amplitude errors during propagation or generation. Three different cases are considered for which the states to be teleported are unknown superpositions of (a) single-photon and vacuum states, (b) vertically-polarized and horizontally-polarized photon states, and (c) two coherent states of opposite phases. The generalized measurement scheme for each case is analyzed, which indicates that the success probability is much more resistant to amplitude errors for case (c) than for case (a) or (b).

id: quant-ph/0404173
title: Near-Complete Teleportation of a Superposed Coherent State
authors: Yong Wook Cheong, Hyunjae Kim, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 4 pages,3 figures, Two columns, LaTex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404173
abstract: The four Bell-type entangled coherent states, |\alpha>|-\alpha> \pm |-\alpha> |\alpha> and |\alpha>|\alpha> \pm |-\alpha> |-\alpha>, can be discriminated with a high probability using only linear optical means, as long as |\alpha| is not too small. Based on this observation, we propose a simple scheme to almost completely teleport a superposed coherent state. The nonunitary transformation, that is required to complete the teleportation, can be achieved by embedding the receiver's field state in a larger Hilbert space consisting of the field and a single atom and performing a unitary transformation on this Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0404174
title: Comment on "Geometric phases for mixed states during cyclic evolutions"
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Comment to the paper L.-B. Fu and J.-L. Chen, J. Phys. A 37, 3699 (2004); small changes; journal reference added
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 7393 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404174
abstract: It is shown that a recently suggested concept of mixed state geometric phase in cyclic evolutions [2004 {\it J. Phys. A} {\bf 37} 3699] is gauge dependent.

id: quant-ph/0404175
title: 3D Quantum Trajectories. Quantum orbits of the Hydrogen's electron
authors: T. Djama
comments: Latex, 20 pages, 10 eps figures. figures format changes, included in the body of the paper. redaction changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404175
abstract: In this paper, we introduced the 3D-Quantum Stationary Hamilton Jacobi Equation for a central potential, and established the 3D quantum law of motion of an electron in the presence of such a potential. We established a system of three differential equations from which, and as a numerical application, we plotted the 3D quantum trajectories of the Hydrogen's electron for the ground state and two excited states. we did a comparison between a supposed classical trajectory of the hydrogen electron and the corresponding QTs. We found out that for a particular set of the hidden variables, the QT is close in its shape to the classical one.

id: quant-ph/0404176
title: BCS-like Modewise Entanglement of Fermion Gaussian States
authors: Alonso Botero, Benni Reznik
comments: 10 pages, RevTex4
journal: Physics Letters A 331 (2004) 39-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404176
abstract: We show that with respect to any bipartite division of modes, pure fermion gaussian states display the same type of structure in its entanglement of modes as that of the BCS wave function, namely, that of a tensor product of entangled two-mode squeezed fermion states. We show that this structure applies to a wider class of "isotropic" mixed fermion states, for which we derive necessary and sufficient conditions for mode entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0404177
title: Large geometric phases and non-elementary monopoles
authors: Patricio Leboeuf, Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A36:2847-2856,2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404177
abstract: Degeneracies in the spectrum of an adiabatically transported quantum system are important to determine the geometrical phase factor, and may be interpreted as magnetic monopoles. We investigate the mechanism by which constraints acting on the system, related to local symmetries, can create arbitrarily large monopole charges. These charges are associated with different geometries of the degeneracy. An explicit method to compute the charge as well as several illustrative examples are given.

id: quant-ph/0404178
title: Polarization Tensors and the Photon Field
authors: Brian Seed
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404178
abstract: A direct calculation of the elements of the photon polarization vector for arbitrary momentum in the helicity basis shows that it is not a vector but a complex bivector. The bivector real and imaginary parts can be directly equated with electromagnetic field amplitudes and the associated field equations are the Maxwell equations in time-imaginary space. The bivector field exhibits a phase freedom (Berry, or geometric phase) dependent on the rotation history of the field or observer. Phase freedom is not intrinsically present in the longitudinal excitations of the field and a general argument connects quantization of angular momentum with the observation of phase changes associated with frame rotation. Current and translation operators can be defined for bivector fields that are free of defects associated with a quantized vector potential.

id: quant-ph/0404179
title: Entanglement flow in multipartite systems
authors: T. S. Cubitt, F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX format. Proof of lemma 3 corrected. Restructured and expanded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404179
abstract: We investigate entanglement dynamics in multipartite systems, establishing a quantitative concept of entanglement flow: both flow through individual particles, and flow along general networks of interacting particles. In the former case, the rate at which a particle can transmit entanglement is shown to depend on that particle's entanglement with the rest of the system. In the latter, we derive a set of entanglement rate equations, relating the rate of entanglement generation between two subsets of particles to the entanglement already present further back along the network. We use the rate equations to derive a lower bound on entanglement generation in qubit chains, and compare this to existing entanglement creation protocols.

id: quant-ph/0404180
title: Lagrangian representation for fermionic linear optics
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 12 pages, Revtex4, significantly improved version
journal: Quantum Inf. and Comp., Vol. 5, No. 3 (2005) pp.216-238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0404180
abstract: Notions of a Gaussian state and a Gaussian linear map are generalized to the case of anticommuting (Grassmann) variables. Conditions under which a Gaussian map is trace preserving and (or) completely positive are formulated. For any Gaussian map an explicit formula relating correlation matrices of input and output states is presented. This formalism allows to develop the Lagrangian representation for fermionic linear optics (FLO). It covers both unitary operations and the single-mode projectors associated with FLO measurements. Using the Lagrangian representation we reduce a classical simulation of FLO to a computation of Gaussian integrals over Grassmann variables. Explicit formulas describing evolution of a quantum state under FLO operations are put forward.

id: astro-ph/0404510
title: Universal Limits on Computation
authors: Lawrence M. Krauss, Glenn D. Starkman
comments: 3 pages including eps figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett; several typos corrected, several references added, and a short discussion of w <-1 added
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0404510
abstract: The physical limits to computation have been under active scrutiny over the past decade or two, as theoretical investigations of the possible impact of quantum mechanical processes on computing have begun to make contact with realizable experimental configurations. We demonstrate here that the observed acceleration of the Universe can produce a universal limit on the total amount of information that can be stored and processed in the future, putting an ultimate limit on future technology for any civilization, including a time-limit on Moore's Law. The limits we derive are stringent, and include the possibilities that the computing performed is either distributed or local. A careful consideration of the effect of horizons on information processing is necessary for this analysis, which suggests that the total amount of information that can be processed by any observer is significantly less than the Hawking-Bekenstein entropy associated with the existence of an event horizon in an accelerating universe.

id: cond-mat/0404123
title: Entangled Hanbury Brown Twiss effects with edge states
authors: M. Buttiker, P. Samuelsson, E. V. Sukhorukov
comments: International Symposium "Quantum Hall Effect: Past, Present and Future"
journal: Physica E 20, 33 (2003)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404123
abstract: Electronic Hanbury Brown Twiss correlations are discussed for geometries in which transport is along adiabatically guided edge channels. We briefly discuss partition noise experiments and discuss the effect of inelastic scattering and dephasing on current correlations. We then consider a two-source Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment which demonstrates strikingly that even in geometries without an Aharonov-Bohm effect in the conductance matrix (second-order interference), correlation functions can (due to fourth-order interference) be sensitive to a flux. Interestingly we find that this fourth-order interference effect is closely related to orbital entanglement. The entanglement can be detected via violation of a Bell Inequality in this geometry even so particles emanate from uncorrelated sources.

id: cond-mat/0404149
title: Double-Slit Interferometry with a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: L.A. Collins, L. Pezze', A. Smerzi, G.P. Berman, A.R. Bishop
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404149
abstract: A Bose-Einstein "double-slit" interferometer has been recently realized experimentally by (Y. Shin et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 50405 (2004)). We analyze the interferometric steps by solving numerically the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevski equation in three-dimensional space. We focus on the adiabaticity time scales of the problem and on the creation of spurious collective excitations as a possible source of the strong dephasing observed experimentally. The role of quantum fluctuations is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0404182
title: Quantum Glassiness
authors: Claudio Chamon
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 040402 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404182
abstract: Describing matter at near absolute zero temperature requires understanding a system's quantum ground state and the low energy excitations around it, the quasiparticles, which are thermally populated by the system's contact to a heat bath. However, this paradigm breaks down if thermal equilibration is obstructed. This paper presents solvable examples of quantum many-body Hamiltonians of systems that are unable to reach their ground states as the environment temperature is lowered to absolute zero. These examples, three dimensional generalizations of quantum Hamiltonians proposed for topological quantum computing, 1) have no quenched disorder, 2) have solely local interactions, 3) have an exactly solvable spectrum, 4) have topologically ordered ground states, and 5) have slow dynamical relaxation rates akin to those of strong structural glasses.

id: cond-mat/0404212
title: The Density Matrix Renormalization Group for finite Fermi systems
authors: Jorge Dukelsky, Stuart Pittel
comments: 48 pages, 17 figures Corrections made to equation 19 and table 1
journal: Rept.Prog.Phys.67:513-552,2004
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404212
abstract: The Density Matrix Renormalization Group (DMRG) was introduced by Steven White in 1992 as a method for accurately describing the properties of one-dimensional quantum lattices. The method, as originally introduced, was based on the iterative inclusion of sites on a real-space lattice. Based on its enormous success in that domain, it was subsequently proposed that the DMRG could be modified for use on finite Fermi systems, through the replacement of real-space lattice sites by an appropriately ordered set of single-particle levels. Since then, there has been an enormous amount of work on the subject, ranging from efforts to clarify the optimal means of implementing the algorithm to extensive applications in a variety of fields. In this article, we review these recent developments. Following a description of the real-space DMRG method, we discuss the key steps that were undertaken to modify it for use on finite Fermi systems and then describe its applications to Quantum Chemistry, ultrasmall superconducting grains, finite nuclei and two-dimensional electron systems. We also describe a recent development which permits symmetries to be taken into account consistently throughout the DMRG algorithm. We close with an outlook for future applications of the method.

id: cond-mat/0404227
title: Vector Polarons in a Degenerate Electron System
authors: Dennis P. Clougherty, Charles A. Foell
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 052301 (2004)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404227
abstract: We consider a one dimensional model of an electron in a doubly (or nearly) degenerate band that interacts with elastic distortions. We show that the electron equations of motion reduce to a set of coupled non-linear Schrodinger equations. For the case of interband electron-phonon coupling stemming from local Jahn-Teller interactions, new multicomponent self-localized polaron solutions --vector polarons-- are described and classified. The phase diagram for the different types of vector polarons in this model is presented. By interpreting the components of the orbital doublet as those of spin-1/2, our results can also be used to describe bound magnetic polarons.

id: cond-mat/0404330
title: The dependence of information entropy of uniform Fermi systems on correlations and thermal effects
authors: Ch.C. Moustakidis, S.E. Massen
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. B71 (2005) 045102
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404330
abstract: The influence of correlations of uniform Fermi systems (nuclear matter, electron gas and liquid $^3$He) on Shannon's information entropy, $S$, is studied. $S$ is the sum of the information entropies in position and momentum spaces. It is found that, for three different Fermi systems with different particle interactions, the correlated part of $S$ ($S_{cor}$) depends on the correlation parameter of the systems or on the discontinuity gap of the momentum distribution through two parameter expressions. The values of the parameters characterize the strength of the correlations. A two parameter expression also holds between $S_{cor}$ and the mean kinetic energy ($K$) of the Fermi system. The study of thermal effects on the uncorrelated electron gas leads to a relation between the thermal part of $S$ ($S_{thermal}$) and the fundamental quantities of temperature, thermodynamical entropy and the mean kinetic energy. It is found that, in the case of low temperature limit, the expression connecting $S_{thermal}$ with $K$ is the same to the one which connects $S_{cor}$ with $K$. There are only some small differences on the values of the parameters. Thus, regardless of the reason (correlations or thermal) that changes $K$, $S$ takes almost the same value.

id: cond-mat/0404403
title: Studying quantum spin systems through entanglement estimators
authors: Tommaso Roscilde, Paola Verrucchi, Andrea Fubini, Stephan Haas, Valerio Tognetti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, v3: improved figures and discussion. Accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 167203 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404403
abstract: We study the field dependence of the entanglement of formation in anisotropic S=1/2 antiferromagnetic chains displaying a T=0 field-driven quantum phase transition. The analysis is carried out via Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. At zero temperature the entanglement estimators show abrupt changes at and around criticality, vanishing below the critical field, in correspondence with an exactly factorized state, and then immediately recovering a finite value upon passing through the quantum phase transition. At the quantum critical point, a deep minimum in the pairwise-to-global entanglement ratio shows that multi-spin entanglement is strongly enhanced; moreover this signature represents a novel way of detecting the quantum phase transition of the system, relying entirely on entanglement estimators.

id: cond-mat/0404420
title: Quantum Chaos of Bogoliubov Waves for a Bose-Einstein Condensate in Stadium Billiards
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, Jie Liu, Mark G. Raizen, Qian Niu
comments: minor change, 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 074101 (2004)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404420
abstract: We investigate the possibility of quantum (or wave) chaos for the Bogoliubov excitations of a Bose-Einstein condensate in billiards. Because of the mean field interaction in the condensate, the Bogoliubov excitations are very different from the single particle excitations in a non-interacting system. Nevertheless, we predict that the statistical distribution of level spacings is unchanged by mapping the non-Hermitian Bogoliubov operator to a real symmetric matrix. We numerically test our prediction by using a phase shift method for calculating the excitation energies.

id: cond-mat/0404505
title: Formation and Thermal Stability of sub-10 nm Carbon Templates on Si(100)
authors: Olivier Guise, Joachim Ahner, John T. Yates Jr, Jeremy Levy
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404505
abstract: We report a lithographic process for creating high-resolution (<10 nm) carbon templates on Si(100). A scanning electron microscope, operating under low vacuum (10E-6 mbar), produces a carbon-containing deposit ("contamination resist") on the silicon surface via electron-stimulated dissociation of ambient hydrocarbons, water and other adsorbed molecules. Subsequent annealing at temperatures up to 1320 K in ultra-high vacuum removes SiO2 and other contaminants, with no observable change in dot shape. The annealed structures are compatible with subsequent growth of semiconductors and complex oxides. Carbon dots with diameter as low as 3.5 nm are obtained with a 200 us electron-beam exposure time.

id: cond-mat/0404549
title: Comment on "Continuous quantum measurement: inelastic tunneling and lack of current oscillations"
authors: Dmitri V. Averin, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 069701 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404549
abstract: This is a comment on recent paper by T.M. Stace and S.D. Barrett, PRL 92, 136802 (2004). We show that the main result of the paper, absence of the spectral peak for continuous weak measurement of coherent oscillations in a qubit, is incorrect.

id: cond-mat/0404554
title: Theoretical investigation on electronic properties of topological materials: Optical excitations in Moebius conjugated polymers
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 
journal: Conference Proceedings: International Conference on Science and Technology of Synthetic Metals 2004
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404554
abstract: Electronic structures and optical excitations in Moebius conjugated polymers are studied theoretically. Periodic and Moebius boundary conditions are applied to the tight binding model of poly(para-phenylene), taking into account of the exciton effects by long-range Coulomb interactions. We first discuss that oligomers with a few structural units are more effective than polymers, in order to measure effects of discrete wave numbers which are shift by the Moebius boundary from those of the periodic boundary. Next, calculations of the optical absorption spectra are reported. Certain components of the optical absorption for the electric field perpendicular to the polymer axis mix with the absorption spectra for the electric filed parallel with the polymer axis. Therefore, the polarization dependences of electric field of light can detect whether conjugated polymers have the Moebius boundary or not.

id: cond-mat/0404566
title: Implementation of Spin Hamiltonians in Optical Lattices
authors: J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, M. A. Martin-Delgado, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 250405 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404566
abstract: We propose an optical lattice setup to investigate spin chains and ladders. Electric and magnetic fields allow us to vary at will the coupling constants, producing a variety of quantum phases including the Haldane phase, critical phases, quantum dimers etc. Numerical simulations are presented showing how ground states can be prepared adiabatically. We also propose ways to measure a number of observables, like energy gap, staggered magnetization, end-chain spins effects, spin correlations and the string order parameter.

id: cond-mat/0404616
title: Non-quantized Dirac monopoles and strings in the Berry phase of anisotropic spin systems
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (RevTeX + eps); v2 (revised paper): 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 247202; Erratum-ibid. 94 (2005) 239903
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404616
abstract: The Berry phase of an anisotropic spin system that is adiabatically rotated along a closed circuit C is investigated. It is shown that the Berry phase consists of two contributions: (i) a geometric contribution which can be interpreted as the flux through C of a non-quantized Dirac monopole, and (ii) a topological contribution which can be interpreted as the flux through C of a Dirac string carrying a non-quantized flux, i.e., a spin analogue of the Aharonov-Bohm effect. Various experimental consequences of this novel effect are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0404641
title: Dephasing due to nonstationary 1/f noise
authors: J. Schriefl, M. Clusel, D. Carpentier, P. Degiovanni, Yu. Makhlin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to be published in the proceedings of the Vth Rencontres de Moriond in Mesoscopic Physics
journal: In: Quantum informarion and decoherence in nanosystems, pp. 287-290. Eds. D.C. Glattli, M. Sanquer, and J. Tran Thanh Van, The Gioi Publishers, 2004
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404641
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments with Josephson qubits we propose a new phenomenological model for 1/f noise due to collective excitations of interacting defects in the qubit's environment. At very low temperatures the effective dynamics of these collective modes are very slow leading to pronounced non-Gaussian features and nonstationarity of the noise. We analyze the influence of this noise on the dynamics of a qubit in various regimes and at different operation points. Remarkable predictions are absolute time dependences of a critical coupling and of dephasing in the strong coupling regime.

id: cond-mat/0404692
title: Third order correction to localization in a two-level driven system
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Final version accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 073301 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404692
abstract: A general result is presented on the lack of second order corrections and on the form of the leading order Floquet quasi-energies in the high-frequency approximation for a two-level driven system. Then, by a perturbative approach in the high-frequency approximation that uses dual Dyson series and renormalization group techniques [M. Frasca, Phys. Rev. B 68, 165315 (2003)], we obtain a third order correction for a sinusoidal driving field that is the same obtained by Barata and Wreszinski [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2112 (2000)], confirming their result that localization deviates from the zeros of the zero-th order Bessel function when higher order terms are taken into account. Three different expressions for this correction are compared. An important consequence of this result is that gives complete support to the correctness of both methods. Finally, the limitation of high-frequency approximations is presented by comparison with numerical results for a sinusoidal driving field.

id: cond-mat/0404696
title: Simple quantum feedback of a solid-state qubit
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 201305(R) (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404696
abstract: We propose an experiment on quantum feedback control of a solid-state qubit, which is almost within the reach of the present-day technology. Similar to the earlier proposal, the feedback loop is used to maintain the coherent (Rabi) oscillations in a qubit for an arbitrary long time; however, this is done in a significantly simpler way, which requires much smaller bandwidth of the control circuitry. The main idea is to use the quadrature components of the noisy detector current to monitor approximately the phase of qubit oscillations. The price for simplicity is a less-than-ideal operation: the fidelity is limited by about 95%. The feedback loop operation can be experimentally verified by appearance of a positive in-phase component of the detector current relative to an external oscillating signal used for synchronization.

id: cond-mat/0404706
title: DMRG and periodic boundary conditions: a quantum information perspective
authors: F. Verstraete, D. Porras, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 227205 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404706
abstract: We introduce a picture to analyze the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) numerical method from a quantum information perspective. This leads us to introduce some modifications for problems with periodic boundary conditions in which the results are dramatically improved. The picture also explains some features of the method in terms of entanglement and teleportation.

id: cond-mat/0404727
title: Dephasing of coupled qubit system during gate operations due to background charge fluctuations
authors: Toshifumi Itakura, Yasuhiro Tokura
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. to be published in Macrostructers and superlattic
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0404727
abstract: A quantum computer that can be constructed based on a superconducting nanocircuits has previously been proposed. We examine the effect of background charge fluctuations on a coupled Josephson charge qubit system used in such a computer. In previous work, the background charge fluctuations were found to be an important dephasing channel for a single Josephson qubit. We investigate the effect of fluctuations in the bias at the charge degeneracy point of a Josephson charge qubit system. Evaluated quantities are gate fidelity and diagonal elements of the qubit's density matrix. The fluctuation leads to gate error, however quantum gate operation becomes more accurate with increasing interaction between qubit systems.

id: gr-qc/0404034
title: Does Quantum Cosmology Predict a Constant Dilatonic Field?
authors: F.G. Alvarenga, A.B. Batista, J.C. Fabris
comments: Latex file, 14 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D14 (2005) 291-308
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0404034
abstract: Quantum cosmology may permit to determine the initial conditions of the Universe. In particular, it may select a specific model between many possible classical models. In this work, we study a quantum cosmological model based on the string effective action coupled to matter. The Schutz's formalism is employed in the description of the fluid. A radiation fluid is considered. In this way, a time coordinate may be identified and the Wheeler-DeWitt equation reduces in the minisuperspace to a Schr\"odinger-like equation. It is shown that, under some quite natural assumptions, the expectation values indicate a null axionic field and a constant dilatonic field. At the same time the scale factor exhibits a bounce revealing a singularity-free cosmological model. In some cases, the mininum value of the scale factor can be related to the value of gravitational coupling.

id: gr-qc/0404086
title: Some minor examples on discrete geometry
authors: Alejandro Rivero
comments: 4 pages, added a remark on classical orbits and space time dimensionality
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0404086
abstract: Assuming a minimum value for area measurement, the emergence of quantum mechanics can be easily motivated from naive consideration of gravitational force. Here we provide some pedagogical examples and extensions. At the same time, the role of Planck mass is shown to be of some theoretical influence even at low energies.

id: gr-qc/0404102
title: Understanding Quantum Theory in Terms of Geometry
authors: Fatimah Shojai, Ali Shojai
comments: 88 Pages, 6 figures. To appear in Progress in Quantum Physics Research, Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2004
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0404102
abstract: Understanding quantum theory in terms of a geometric picture sounds great. There are different approaches to this idea. Here we shall present a geometric picture of quantum theory using the de-Broglie--Bohm causal interpretation of quantum mechanics. We shall show that it is possible to understand the key character of de-Broglie--Bohm theory, the quantum potential, as the conformal degree of freedom of the space--time metric. In this way, gravity should give the causal structure of the space--time, while quantum phenomena determines the scale. Some toy models in terms of tensor and scalar--tensor theories will be presented. Then a few essential physical aspects of the idea including the effect on the black holes, the initial Big--Bang singularity and non locality are investigated. We shall formulate a quantum equivalence principle according to which gravitational effects can be removed by going to a freely falling frame while quantum effects can be eliminated by choosing an appropriate scale. And we shall see that the best framework for both quantum and gravity is Weyl geometry. Then we shall show how one can get the de-Broglie--Bohm quantum theory out of a Weyl covariant theory. Extension to the case of many particle systems and spinning particles is discussed at the end.

id: hep-ph/0404180
title: The axial field and quantum states of fermions in closed configurations
authors: Alexander Makhlin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author for pedagogical and aesthetic reasons
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0404180
abstract: This paper was withdrawn by the author.

id: hep-th/0404078
title: SUSY Intertwining Relations of Third Order in Derivatives
authors: M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze
comments: 17 p
journal: Phys.Lett.A327:425-432,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0404078
abstract: The general solution of the intertwining relations between a pair of Schr\"odinger Hamiltonians by the supercharges of third order in derivatives is obtained. The solution is expressed in terms of one arbitrary function. Some properties of the spectrum of the Hamiltonian are derived, and wave functions for three energy levels are constructed. This construction can be interpreted as addition of three new levels to the spectrum of partner potential: a ground state and a pair of levels between successive excited states. Possible types of factorization of the third order supercharges are analysed, the connection with earlier known results is discussed.

id: hep-th/0404080
title: Surface vacuum energy and stresses on a plate uniformly accelerated through the Fulling-Rindler vacuum
authors: A. A. Saharian, M. R. Setare
comments: 14 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 21 (2004) 5261-5274
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0404080
abstract: The vacuum expectation value of the surface energy-momentum tensor is evaluated for a massless scalar field obeying mixed boundary condition on an infinite plate moving by uniform proper acceleration through the Fulling-Rindler vacuum. The generalized zeta function technique is used, in combination with the contour integral representation. The surface energies for separate regions on the left and on the right of the plate contain pole and finite contributions. Analytic expressions for both these contributions are derived. For a minimally coupled scalar the surface energy-momentum tensor induced by vacuum quantum effects corresponds to a source of the cosmological constant type located on the plate and with the cosmological constant determined by the proper acceleration of the plate.

id: hep-th/0404160
title: Adelic Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Branko Dragovich
comments: 20 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A10 (1995) 2349-2365
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0404160
abstract: Using the Weyl quantization we formulate one-dimensional adelic quantum mechanics, which unifies and treats ordinary and $p$-adic quantum mechanics on an equal footing. As an illustration the corresponding harmonic oscillator is considered. It is a simple, exact and instructive adelic model. Eigenstates are Schwartz-Bruhat functions. The Mellin transform of a simplest vacuum state leads to the well known functional relation for the Riemann zeta function. Some expectation values are calculated. The existence of adelic matter at very high energies is suggested.

id: hep-th/0404193
title: The stability of the QED vacuum in the temporal gauge
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 16 pages, minor changes to correct typographical errors
journal: Apeiron 13 (2006) 240
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0404193
abstract: The stability of the vacuum for QED in the temporal gauge will be examined. It is generally assumed that the vacuum state is the quantum state with the lowest energy. However, it will be shown that this is not the case for a system consisting of a fermion field coupled to a quantized electromagnetic field in the temporal gauge. It will be shown that for this situation there exist quantum states with less energy than the vacuum state.

id: math-ph/0404006
title: Pure point spectrum for the time evolution of a periodically rank-N kicked Hamiltonian
authors: J. M. McCaw, B. H. J. McKellar
comments: Improved discussion in Section I.2 and a few small typos fixed. 37 pages, 1 figure, published in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46, 032108 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404006
abstract: We find the conditions under which the spectrum of the unitary time evolution operator for a periodically rank-N kicked system remains pure point. This stability result allows one to analyse the onset of, or lack of chaos in this class of quantum mechanical systems, extending the results for rank-1 systems produced by Combescure and others. This work includes a number of unitary theorems equivalent to those well known and used in the self-adjoint theory.

id: math-ph/0404015
title: On the shape of spectra for non-self-adjoint periodic Schr?dinger operators
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 8287-8292
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404015
abstract: The spectra of the Schr\"odinger operators with periodic potentials are studied. When the potential is real and periodic, the spectrum consists of at most countably many line segments (energy bands) on the real line, while when the potential is complex and periodic, the spectrum consists of at most countably many analytic arcs in the complex plane. In some recent papers, such operators with complex $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric periodic potentials are studied. In particular, the authors argued that some energy bands would appear and disappear under perturbations. Here, we show that appearance and disappearance of such energy bands imply existence of nonreal spectra. This is a consequence of a more general result, describing the local shape of the spectrum.

id: math-ph/0404030
title: On positive maps, entanglement and quantization
authors: W. A. Majewski
comments: 
journal: Open Sys.& Information Dyn., vol. 11: 43-52, 2004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404030
abstract: We outline the scheme for quantization of classical Banach space results associated with some prototypes of dynamical maps and describe the quantization of correlations as well. A relation between these two areas is discussed.

id: math-ph/0404034
title: On the resolvent and spectral functions of a second order differential operator with a regular singularity
authors: H. Falomir, M.A. Muschietti, P.A.G. Pisani
comments: LaTeX, 26 pages, 2 figures. Typos corrected
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 4560-4577
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404034
abstract: We consider the resolvent of a second order differential operator with a regular singularity, admitting a family of self-adjoint extensions. We find that the asymptotic expansion for the resolvent in the general case presents unusual powers of $\lambda$ which depend on the singularity. The consequences for the pole structure of the $\zeta$-function, and the small-$t$ asymptotic expansion of the heat-kernel, are also discussed.

id: math-ph/0404074
title: Proof of the Kurlberg-Rudnick Rate Conjecture
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: In this version we add a proof that the character sheaf of the Heisenberg-Weil representation is perverse, geometrically irreducible of pure weight 0. Moreover, we supply invariant formulas for the character sheaf on an appropriate open set, and we give also another alternative proof for the rate conjecture that uses our invariant formulas
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404074
abstract: In this paper we present a proof of the {\it Hecke quantum unique ergodicity rate conjecture} for the Berry-Hannay model. A model of quantum mechanics on the 2-dimensional torus. This conjecture was stated in Z. Rudnick's lectures at MSRI, Berkeley 1999 and ECM, Barcelona 2000.

id: math-ph/0404076
title: On Generalized Functions in Adelic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Branko Dragovich
comments: 9pages
journal: Integral Transform. Spec. Funct. 6 (1998) 197-2003
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404076
abstract: Some aspects of adelic generalized functions, as linear continuous functionals on the space of Schwartz-Bruhat functions, are considered. The importance of adelic generalized functions in adelic quantum mechanics is demonstrated. In particular, adelic product formula for Gauss integrals is derived, and the connection between the functional relation for the Riemann zeta function and quantum states of the harmonic oscillator is stated.

id: math-ph/0404077
title: Canonically relativistic quantum mechanics: Casimir field equations of the quaplectic group
authors: S.G. Low
comments: Typographical errors corrected, nomenclature changes, see note [1] for specifics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404077
abstract: The Hilbert space of the unitary irreducible representations of a Lie group that is a quantum dynamical group are identified with the quantum state space. Hermitian representation of the algebra are observables. The eigenvalue equations for the representation of the set of Casimir invariant operators define the field equations of the system. A general class of dynamical groups are semidirect products K *s N for which the representations are given by Mackey's theory. The homogeneous group K must be a subgroup of the automorphisms of the normal group N. The archetype dynamical group is the Poincare group. The field equations defined by the representations of the Casimir operators define the basic equations of physics; Klein-Gordon, Dirac, Maxwell and so forth. This paper explores a more general dynamical group candidate that is also a semi-direct product but where the 'translation' normal subgroup N is now the Heisenberg group. The relevant automorphisms of the Heisenberg group are the symplectic group. This together with the requirement for an orthogonal metric leads to the pseudo-unitary group for the homogeneous group K. The physical meaning and motivation of this group, called the quaplectic group, is presented and the Hermitian irreducible representations of the algebra are determined. As with the Poincare group, choice of the group defines the Hilbert space of representations that are identified with quantum particle states. The field equations that are the eigenvalue equations for the representation of the Casimir operators, are obtained and investigated. The theory embodies the Born reciprocity principle and a new relativity principle.

id: math-ph/0404078
title: Darboux transformation for two-level systems
authors: V.G. Bagrov, M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman, V.V. Shamshutdinova
comments: 10 pages
journal: Ann. Phy. 14, No.6, pp. 390-397 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0404078
abstract: We develop the Darboux procedure for the case of the two-level system. In particular, it is demonstrated that one can construct the Darboux intertwining operator that does not violate the specific structure of the equations of the two-level system, transforming only one real potential into another real potential. We apply the obtained Darboux transformation to known exact solutions of the two-level system. Thus, we find three classes of new solutions for the two-level system and the corresponding new potentials that allow such solutions.

id: math/0404320
title: Quadrangularity in Tournaments
authors: J. Richard Lundgren, Simone Severini, Dustin J. Stewart
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0404320
abstract: The pattern of a matrix M is a (0,1)-matrix which replaces all non-zero entries of M with a 1. There are several contexts in which studying the patterns of orthogonal matrices can be useful. One necessary condition for a matrix to be orthogonal is a property known as combinatorial orthogonality. If the adjacency matrix of a directed graph forms a pattern of a combinatorially orthogonal matrix, we say the digraph is quadrangular. We look at the quadrangular property in tournaments and regular tournaments.

id: math/0404553
title: A quantum computing primer for operator theorists
authors: David W. Kribs
comments: 24 pages, to appear in Lin. Alg. Appl
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl., 400 (2005), 147-167.
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0404553
abstract: This is an exposition of some of the aspects of quantum computation and quantum information that have connections with operator theory. After a brief introduction, we discuss quantum algorithms. We outline basic properties of quantum channels, or equivalently, completely positive trace preserving maps. The main theorems for quantum error detection and correction are presented and we conclude with a description of a particular passive method of quantum error correction.

id: nlin/0404060
title: Analysis of dynamical tunnelling experiments with a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Winfried K. Hensinger, Amaury Mouchet, Paul S. Julienne, Dominique Delande, Norman R. Heckenberg, Halina Rubinsztein-Dunlop
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 70 (2004) 013408
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0404060
abstract: Dynamical tunnelling is a quantum phenomenon where a classically forbidden process occurs, that is prohibited not by energy but by another constant of motion. The phenomenon of dynamical tunnelling has been recently observed in a sodium Bose-Einstein condensate. We present a detailed analysis of these experiments using numerical solutions of the three dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation and the corresponding Floquet theory. We explore the parameter dependency of the tunnelling oscillations and we move the quantum system towards the classical limit in the experimentally accessible regime.

id: nucl-th/0404092
title: WKB approximation for multi-channel barrier penetrability
authors: K. Hagino, A.B. Balantekin
comments: 15 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 032106
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0404092
abstract: Using a method of local transmission matrix, we generalize the well-known WKB formula for a barrier penetrability to multi-channel systems. We compare the WKB penetrability with a solution of the coupled-channels equations, and show that the WKB formula works well at energies well below the lowest adiabatic barrier. We also discuss the eigen-channel approach to a multi-channel tunneling, which may improve the performance of the WKB formula near and above the barrier.

id: physics/0404054
title: Blind dispersion compensation for optical coherence tomography
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Aleksandr S. Radunsky, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0404054
abstract: We propose a numerical method for compensating dispersion effects in optical coherence tomography that does not require a priori knowledge of dispersive properties of the sample. The method is based on the generalized autoconvolution function, and its principle of operation can be intuitively visualized using the Wigner distribution function formalism.

id: physics/0404085
title: I am the cat who walks by himself
authors: Asher Peres
comments: To be published in a special volume of "Foundations of Physics" honoring the 70th birthday of the author
journal: Found.Phys. 36 (2006) 1-18
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0404085
abstract: The city of lions. Beaulieu-sur-Dordogne. The war starts. Drole de guerre. Going to work. Going to school. Fleeing from village to village. Playing cat and mouse. The second landing. Return to Beaulieu. Return to Paris. Joining the boyscouts. Learning languages. Israel becomes independent. Arrival in Haifa. Kalay high school. Military training. The Hebrew Technion in Haifa. Relativity. Asher Peres. Metallurgy. Return to France. Escape from jail. Aviva.

id: physics/0404092
title: Alignment and orientation of an adsorbed dipole molecule
authors: Y. Y. Liao, Y. N. Chen, D. S. Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B (2004)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 233410 (2004)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0404092
abstract: Half-cycle laser pulse is applied on an absorbed molecule to investigate its alignment and orientation behavior. Crossover from field-free to hindered rotation motion is observed by varying the angel of hindrance of potential well. At small hindered angle, both alignment and orientation show sinusoidal-like behavior because of the suppression of higher excited states. However, mean alignment decreases monotonically as the hindered angle is increased, while mean orientation displays a minimum point at certain hindered angle. The reason is attributed to the symmetry of wavefunction and can be explained well by analyzing the coefficients of eigenstates.

id: physics/0404122
title: Excitons in hexagonal nanonetwork materials
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 
journal: Synthetic Metals 135-136, 751 (2003)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0404122
abstract: Optical excitations in hexagonal nanonetwork materials, for example, Boron-Nitride (BN) sheets and nanotubes, are investigated theoretically. A permanent electric dipole moment, whose direction is from the B site to the N site, is considered along the BN bond. When the exciton hopping integral is restricted to the nearest neighbors, the flat band of the exciton appears at the lowest energy. The symmetry of this exciton band is optically forbidden, indicating that the excitons relaxed to this band will show quite long lifetime which will cause luminescence properties.

id: q-bio/0404007
title: Information Processing in Brain Microtubules
authors: Jean Faber, Renato Portugal, Luiz Pinguelli Rosa
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, article presented in Quantum Mind 2003 conference
journal: 
subjects: Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0404007
abstract: Models of the mind are based on the possibility of computing in brain microtubules. From this point of view, information processing is the fundamental issue for understanding the brain mechanisms that produce consciousness. The cytoskeleton polymers could store and process information through their dynamic coupling mediated by mechanical energy. We analyze the problem of information transfer and storage in brain microtubules, considering them as a communication channel. We discuss the implications of assuming that consciousness is generated by the subneuronal process.

id: nucl-th/0404013
title: Bremsstrahlung in alpha-decay: angular analysis of spectra
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk, Sergei V. Belchikov
comments: 6 pages, no figures, Standard LaTeX v.2e. Talk in the II Conference on High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics and Accelerator Physics, March 1-5, 2004, Kharkov. Corrections of LaTeX style (a little)
journal: Problems of atomic science and technology, Series: Nuclear Physics Investigations, 5 (44), p.19-21 (2004)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0404013
abstract: A quantum mechanical method of calculation of bremsstrahlung spectra in alpha-decay of heavy nuclei with taking into account an angle between directions of the alpha-particle motion and the photon emission is presented. Dependence between the bremsstrahlung spectrum and the angle value is obtained in a simple analytical form. The method can be used for a comparative analysis of experimental data, obtained at different angles.

id: nucl-th/0404090
title: Does Sub-Barrier Bremsstrahlung in alpha-decay of 210Po Exist?
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk, Vladislav S. Olkhovsky
comments: reference corrections
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys. 109 (2003) 203-211
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0404090
abstract: A quantum mechanical model for the description of the alpha-decay of heavy nuclei with accompanying photons emission is presented. The model is based on a quantum mechanical one-particle model of alpha-decay through a decay barrier. The bremsstrahlung spectrum calculation employs multipole expansion of the vector potential of the Coulomb field of the daughter nucleus and takes into account the dependence on the angle between the directions of the alpha-particle propagation and the photon emission. Spectra of 210Po are obtained for the angles 25 and 90, and the best agreement with the experimental data in the 90 case in a comparison with other existing models is achieved. From the angular analysis, the model gives monotonic behavior of the bremsstrahlung spectrum for any value of the angle. We find that sub-barrier photon emission (i. e. bremsstrahlung photon emission during alpha-particle tunneling through decay barrier) exists but gives a small contribution to the total bremsstrahlung spectrum.

