id: quant-ph/0405120
title: Spatial search and the Dirac equation
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Jeffrey Goldstone
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042312 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405120
abstract: We consider the problem of searching a d-dimensional lattice of N sites for a single marked location. We present a Hamiltonian that solves this problem in time of order sqrt(N) for d>2 and of order sqrt(N) log(N) in the critical dimension d=2. This improves upon the performance of our previous quantum walk search algorithm (which has a critical dimension of d=4), and matches the performance of a corresponding discrete-time quantum walk algorithm. The improvement uses a lattice version of the Dirac Hamiltonian, and thus requires the introduction of spin (or coin) degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0405128
title: Quantum Random Walks do not need a Coin Toss
authors: Apoorva Patel, K.S. Raghunathan, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX (v2) Expanded to include relation to quantum walk with a coin. Connection with Dirac equation pointed out. Version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A71 (2005) 032347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405128
abstract: Classical randomized algorithms use a coin toss instruction to explore different evolutionary branches of a problem. Quantum algorithms, on the other hand, can explore multiple evolutionary branches by mere superposition of states. Discrete quantum random walks, studied in the literature, have nonetheless used both superposition and a quantum coin toss instruction. This is not necessary, and a discrete quantum random walk without a quantum coin toss instruction is defined and analyzed here. Our construction eliminates quantum entanglement from the algorithm, and the results match those obtained with a quantum coin toss instruction.

id: quant-ph/0405174
title: Reversible quantum cellular automata
authors: B. Schumacher, R.F. Werner
comments: 20 pages, revtex4, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405174
abstract: We define quantum cellular automata as infinite quantum lattice systems with discrete time dynamics, such that the time step commutes with lattice translations and has strictly finite propagation speed. In contrast to earlier definitions this allows us to give an explicit characterization of all local rules generating such automata. The same local rules also generate the global time step for automata with periodic boundary conditions. Our main structure theorem asserts that any quantum cellular automaton is structurally reversible, i.e., that it can be obtained by applying two blockwise unitary operations in a generalized Margolus partitioning scheme. This implies that, in contrast to the classical case, the inverse of a nearest neighbor quantum cellular automaton is again a nearest neighbor automaton. We present several construction methods for quantum cellular automata, based on unitaries commuting with their translates, on the quantization of (arbitrary) reversible classical cellular automata, on quantum circuits, and on Clifford transformations with respect to a description of the single cells by finite Weyl systems. Moreover, we indicate how quantum random walks can be considered as special cases of cellular automata, namely by restricting a quantum lattice gas automaton with local particle number conservation to the single particle sector.

