id: quant-ph/0405001
title: Is Quantum Search Practical?
authors: George F. Viamontes, Igor L. Markov, John P. Hayes
comments: Comments, criticisms and suggestions for improvement are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405001
abstract: Quantum algorithms and circuits can, in principle, outperform the best non-quantum (classical) techniques for some hard computational problems. However, this does not necessarily lead to useful applications. To gauge the practical significance of a quantum algorithm, one must weigh it against the best conventional techniques applied to useful instances of the same problem. Grover's quantum search algorithm is one of the most widely studied. We identify requirements for Grover's algorithm to be useful in practice: (1) a search application S where classical methods do not provide sufficient scalability; (2) an instantiation of Grover's algorithm Q(S) for S that has a smaller asymptotic worst-case runtime than any classical algorithm C(S) for S; (3) Q(S) with smaller actual runtime for practical instances of S than that of any C(S). We show that several commonly-suggested applications fail to satisfy these requirements, and outline directions for future work on quantum search.

id: quant-ph/0405002
title: Connections between relative entropy of entanglement and geometric measure of entanglement
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Marie Ericsson, Paul M. Goldbart, William J. Munro
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Qic
journal: Quantum Inform. Compu. v4, p252 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405002
abstract: As two of the most important entanglement measures--the entanglement of formation and the entanglement of distillation--have so far been limited to bipartite settings, the study of other entanglement measures for multipartite systems appears necessary. Here, connections between two other entanglement measures--the relative entropy of entanglement and the geometric measure of entanglement--are investigated. It is found that for arbitrary pure states the latter gives rise to a lower bound on the former. For certain pure states, some bipartite and some multipartite, this lower bound is saturated, and thus their relative entropy of entanglement can be found analytically in terms of their known geometric measure of entanglement. For certain mixed states, upper bounds on the relative entropy of entanglement are also established. Numerical evidence strongly suggests that these upper bounds are tight, i.e., they are actually the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0405003
title: An artificial game with equilibrium state of entangled strategy
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figs, an application and development of the former paper quant-ph/0404159, figures updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405003
abstract: Using the representation introduced in \cite{frame}, an artificial game in quantum strategy space is proposed and studied. Although it has well-known classical correspondence, which has classical mixture strategy Nash Equilibrium states, the equilibrium state of this quantum game is an entangled strategy (operator) state of the two players. By discovering such behavior, it partially shows the independent meaning of the new representation. The idea of entanglement of strategies, instead of quantum states, is proposed, and in some sense, such entangled strategy state can be regarded as a cooperative behavior between game players.

id: quant-ph/0405004
title: Adiabatic Evolution in XXX Spin Chain is Fast
authors: Vladimir Korepin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405004
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0405005
title: The Physics of Information
authors: Christoph Adami
comments: Review. 28 pages, 3 figures, requires iopart.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405005
abstract: Information theory is a statistical theory concerned with the relative state of detectors and physical systems. As a consequence, the classical framework of Shannon needs to be extended to deal with quantum detectors, possibly moving at relativistic speeds, conceivably within curved space-time. Considerable progress toward such a theory has been achieved in the last ten years, while much is still not understood. This review recapitulates some milestones along this road, and speculates about future ones.

id: quant-ph/0405006
title: On an Alternative Parametrization for the Theory of Complex Spectra
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Jacob Katriel
comments: Published in Physics Letters A 147, 417-422 (1990)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405006
abstract: The purpose of this letter is threefold : (i) to derive, in the framework of a new parametrization, some compact formulas of energy averages for the electrostatic interaction within an (nl)N configuration, (ii) to describe a new generating function for obtaining the number of states with a given spin angular momentum in an (nl)N configuration, and (iii) to report some apparently new sum rules, actually a by-product of (i), for SU(2) > U(1) coupling coefficients.

id: quant-ph/0405007
title: On the exit statistics theorem of many particle quantum scattering
authors: Detlef Duerr, Stefan Teufel
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures; to appear in the proceedings of the conference "Multiscale methods in Quantum Mechanics", Accademia dei Lincei, Rome, December 16-20, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405007
abstract: We review the foundations of the scattering formalism for one particle potential scattering and discuss the generalization to the simplest case of many non interacting particles. We point out that the "straight path motion" of the particles, which is achieved in the scattering regime, is at the heart of the crossing statistics of surfaces, which should be thought of as detector surfaces. We sketch a proof of the relevant version of the many particle flux across surfaces theorem and discuss what needs to be proven for the foundations of scattering theory in this context.

id: quant-ph/0405008
title: A Robust Semidefinite Programming Approach to the Separability Problem
authors: Fernando. G. S. L. Brandao, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: Revised version (minor spell corrections) . 6 pages; submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062309 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405008
abstract: We express the optimization of entanglement witnesses for arbitrary bipartite states in terms of a class of convex optimization problems known as Robust Semidefinite Programs (RSDP). We propose, using well known properties of RSDP, several new sufficient tests for the separability of mixed states. Our results are then generalized to multipartite density operators.

id: quant-ph/0405009
title: Environmental effects in the quantum-classical transition for the delta-kicked harmonic oscillator
authors: A.R.R. Carvalho, R. L. de Matos Filho, L. Davidovich
comments: 16 pages, 13 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 026211 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405009
abstract: We discuss the roles of the macroscopic limit and of different system-environment interactions in the quantum-classical transition for a chaotic system. We consider the kicked harmonic oscillator subject to reservoirs that correspond in the classical case to purely dissipative or purely diffusive behavior, in a situation that can be implemented in ion trap experiments. In the dissipative case, we derive an expression for the time at which quantum and classical predictions become different (breaking time) and show that a complete quantum-classical correspondence is not possible in the chaotic regime. For the diffusive environment we estimate the minimum value of the diffusion coefficient necessary to retrieve the classical limit and also show numerical evidence that, for diffusion below this threshold, the breaking time behaves, essentially, as in the case of the system without a reservoir.

id: quant-ph/0405010
title: Coherent Control of Resonance-Mediated Reactions: F + HD
authors: Vlado Zeman, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Ref. Lett. 92, 133204 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405010
abstract: Cross sections resulting from scattering that proceeds via an intermediate resonance are shown to be exceptionally controllable using a coherent superposition of only two intial states. Full quantum computations on F+HD(v=0;j=0,1) --> H+DF, D+HF, which exhibits a resonance in one of the reactive channels, support the formal arguments, showing that control is indeed vast. In this case the ratio of reactive integral cross sections can be altered by a factor of 62 (compared to a noncoherent factor of only 3.3), while the ratio of reactive differential cross sections can be altered by a factor of over 6000 (compared to a noncoherent factor of less than 7). These results constitute the first prediction of extensive quantum control in a collisional process.

id: quant-ph/0405011
title: Decoherence alias Loschmidt echo of the environment
authors: T. Gorin, T. Prosen, T. H. Seligman, W. T. Strunz
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042105 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405011
abstract: Entanglement between a quantum system and its environment leads to loss of coherence in the former. In general, the temporal fate of coherences is complicated. Here, we establish the connection between decoherence of a central system and fidelity decay in the environment for a variety of situations, including both, energy conserving and dissipative couplings. We show how properties of unitary time evolution of the environment can be inferred from the non-unitary evolution of coherences in the central system. This opens up promising ways for measuring Loschmidt echoes in a variety of situations.

id: quant-ph/0405012
title: Effect of ancilla's structure on quantum error correction using the 7-qubit Calderbank-Shor-Steane code
authors: Pedro J. Salas, Angel L. Sanz
comments: 24 pages, 10 Figures included. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405012
abstract: In this work we discuss the ability of different types of ancillas to control the decoherence of a qubit interacting with an environment. The error is introduced into the numerical simulation via a depolarizing isotropic channel. After the correction we calculate the fidelity as a quality criterion for the qubit recovered. We observe that a recovery method with a three-qubit ancilla provides reasonable good results bearing in mind its economy. If we want to go further, we have to use fault-tolerant ancillas with a high degree of parallelism, even if this condition implies introducing new ancilla verification qubits.

id: quant-ph/0405013
title: Strong many-particle localization and quantum computing with perpetually coupled qubits
authors: L.F. Santos, M.I. Dykman, M. Shapiro, F.M. Izrailev
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405013
abstract: We demonstrate the onset of strong on-site localization in a one-dimensional many-particle system. The localization is obtained by constructing, in an explicit form, a bounded sequence of on-site energies that eliminates resonant hopping between both nearest and remote sites. This sequence leads to quasi-exponential decay of the single-particle transition amplitude. It also leads to strong localization of stationary many-particle states in a finite-length chain. For an {\it infinite} chain, we instead study the time during which {\it all} many-particle states remain strongly localized. We show that, for any number of particles, this time exceeds the reciprocal frequency of nearest-neighbor hopping by a factor $\sim 10^5$ already for a moderate bandwidth of on-site energies. The proposed energy sequence is robust with respect to small errors. The formulation applies to fermions as well as perpetually coupled qubits. The results show viability of quantum computing with time-independent qubit coupling.

id: quant-ph/0405014
title: Ensemble Quantum Computation with atoms in periodic potentials
authors: K. G. H. Vollbrecht, E. Solano, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 220502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405014
abstract: We show how to perform universal quantum computation with atoms confined in optical lattices which works both in the presence of defects and without individual addressing. The method is based on using the defects in the lattice, wherever they are, both to ``mark'' different copies on which ensemble quantum computation is carried out and to define pointer atoms which perform the quantum gates. We also show how to overcome the problem of scalability on this system.

id: quant-ph/0405015
title: Finite-Element Simulation of Casimir Forces in Arbitrary Geometries
authors: M. Tajmar
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. C15 (2004) 1387-1396
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405015
abstract: A 3D finite-element numerical simulation was developed to investigate Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries. The code was verified comparing it with results obtained from analytical equations. Appling the simulation to previously not assessed configurations, new Casimir properties were found such as repulsive Casimir forces in groove like structures.

id: quant-ph/0405016
title: Unconditionally Secure Key Distribution In Higher Dimensions By Depolarization
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 17 pages, minor corrections, to appear in IEEE Trans Inf Theo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405016
abstract: This paper presents a prepare-and-measure scheme using $N$-dimensional quantum particles as information carriers where $N$ is a prime power. One of the key ingredients used to resist eavesdropping in this scheme is to depolarize all Pauli errors introduced to the quantum information carriers. Using the Shor-Preskill-type argument, we prove that this scheme is unconditionally secure against all attacks allowed by the laws of quantum physics. For $N = 2^n > 2$, each information carrier can be replaced by $n$ entangled qubits. In this case, there is a family of eavesdropping attacks on which no unentangled-qubit-based prepare-and-measure quantum key distribution scheme known to date can generate a provably secure key. In contrast, under the same family of attacks, our entangled-qubit-based scheme remains secure whenever $2^n \geq 4$. This demonstrates the advantage of using entangled particles as information carriers and of using depolarization of Pauli errors to combat eavesdropping attacks more drastic than those that can be handled by unentangled-qubit-based prepare-and-measure schemes.

id: quant-ph/0405017
title: Periodicity and Quasi-Periodicity for Super-Integrable Hamiltonian Systems
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Pavel Winternitz
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 147 (1990) 338-342
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405017
abstract: Classical trajectories are calculated for two Hamiltonian systems with ring shaped potentials. Both systems are super-integrable, but not maximally super-integrable, having four globally defined single valued integrals of motion each. All finite trajectories are quasi-periodical; they become truly periodical if a commensurability condition is imposed on an angular momentum component.

id: quant-ph/0405018
title: Improved Bounds on the Randomized and Quantum Complexity of Initial-Value Problems
authors: Boleslaw Kacewicz
comments: 17 pages, extended version (new section added), to appear in the Journal of Complexity
journal: Journal of Complexity 21 (2005), 740-756
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405018
abstract: We deal with the problem, initiated in [8], of finding randomized and quantum complexity of initial-value problems. We showed in [8] that a speed-up in both settings over the worst-case deterministic complexity is possible. In the present paper we prove, by defining new algorithms, that further improvement in upper bounds on the randomized and quantum complexity can be achieved. In the H\"older class of right-hand side functions with r continuous bounded partial derivatives, with r-th derivative being a H\"older function with exponent \rho, the \epsilon-complexity is shown to be O((1/\epsilon)^{1/(r+\rho+1/3)}) in the randomized setting, and O((1/\epsilon)^{1/(r+\rho+1/2)}) on a quantum computer (up to logarithmic factors). This is an improvement for the general problem over the results from [8]. The gap still remaining between upper and lower bounds on the complexity is further discussed for a special problem. We consider scalar autonomous problems, with the aim of computing the solution at the end point of the interval of integration. For this problem, we fill up the gap by establishing (essentially) matching upper and lower complexity bounds. We show that the complexity in this case is of order (1/\epsilon)^{1/(r+\rho+1/2)} in the randomized setting, and (1/\epsilon)^{1/(r+\rho+1)} in the quantum setting (again up to logarithmic factors).

id: quant-ph/0405019
title: Parametric Oscillation with Squeezed Vacuum Reservoirs
authors: Alem Mebrahtu
comments: 16 pages
journal: Journal of Modern Optics Volume 52, Number 6 / 15 April 2005, Pages 813 - 832
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405019
abstract: Employing the quantum Hamiltonian describing the interaction of two-mode light (signal-idler modes) generated by a nondegenerate parametric oscillator (NDPO) with two uncorrelated squeezed vacuum reservoirs (USVR), we derive the master equation. The corresponding Fokker-Planck equation for the Q-function is then solved employing a propagator method developed in Ref. \cite{1}. Making use of this Q-function, we calculate the quadrature fluctuations of the optical system. From these results we infer that the signal-idler modes are in squeezed states and the squeezing occurs in the first quadrature. When the NDPO operates below threshold we show that, for a large squeezing parameter, a squeezing amounting to a noise suppression approaching 100% below the vacuum level in the first quadrature can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0405020
title: Entanglement storage in atomic ensembles
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Alberto Bramati, Michel Pinard
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 67 (2004) 881
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405020
abstract: We propose to entangle macroscopic atomic ensembles in cavity using EPR-correlated beams. We show how the field entanglement can be almost perfectly mapped onto the long-lived atomic spins associated with the ground states of the ensembles, and how it can be retrieved in the fields exiting the cavities after a variable storage time. Such a continuous variable quantum memory is of interest for manipulating entanglement in quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0405021
title: Generating Polarization-Entangled Photon Pairs with Arbitrary Joint Spectrum
authors: Zachary D. Walton, Alexander V. Sergienko, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405021
abstract: We present a scheme for generating polarization-entangled photons pairs with arbitrary joint spectrum. Specifically, we describe a technique for spontaneous parametric down-conversion in which both the center frequencies and the bandwidths of the down-converted photons may be controlled by appropriate manipulation of the pump pulse. The spectral control offered by this technique permits one to choose the operating wavelengths for each photon of a pair based on optimizations of other system parameters (loss in optical fiber, photon counter performance, etc.). The combination of spectral control, polarization control, and lack of group-velocity matching conditions makes this technique particularly well-suited for a distributed quantum information processing architecture in which integrated optical circuits are connected by spans of optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0405022
title: Decay rate and decoherence control in coupled dissipative cavities
authors: A. R. Bosco de Magalhaes, S. G. Mokarzel, M. C. Nemes, M. O. Terra Cunha
comments: 19 pages, 1 table, accepted by Physica A
journal: Physica A 341 (2004) 234-250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405022
abstract: We give a detailed account of the derivation of a master equation for two coupled cavities in the presence of dissipation. The analytical solution is presented and physical limits of interest are discussed. Firstly we show that the decay rate of initial coherent states can be significantly modified if the two cavities have different decay rates and are weakly coupled through a wire. Moreover, we show that also decoherence rates can be substantially altered by manipulation of physical parameters. Conditions for experimental realizations are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405023
title: An efficient algorithm to recognize local Clifford equivalence of graph states
authors: Maarten Van den Nest, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 3 pages. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 034302 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405023
abstract: In [Phys. Rev. A 69, 022316 (2004)] we presented a description of the action of local Clifford operations on graph states in terms of a graph transformation rule, known in graph theory as \emph{local complementation}. It was shown that two graph states are equivalent under the local Clifford group if and only if there exists a sequence of local complementations which relates their associated graphs. In this short note we report the existence of a polynomial time algorithm, published in [Combinatorica 11 (4), 315 (1991)], which decides whether two given graphs are related by a sequence of local complementations. Hence an efficient algorithm to detect local Clifford equivalence of graph states is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0405024
title: Some Comments on Entanglement and Local Thermofield Theory
authors: Christian Jaekel
comments: plain-tex, 14p
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 14 (2001) 1-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405024
abstract: We combine recent results of Clifton and Halvorson [1] with structural results of the author [2--5] concerning the local observables in thermofield theory. An number of interesting consequences are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405025
title: Implementing quantum information processing with atoms, ions and photons
authors: P. Zoller, J. I. Cirac, Luming Duan, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 14 pages, Lecture notes from Les Houches Summer School 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405025
abstract: Lecture Notes of the Les Houches Summer School 2003 on Quantum entanglement and information processing to be published as P. Zoller, J. I. Cirac, Luming Duan and J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, in "Quantum entanglement and information processing", Proceedings of the Les Houches Summer School, Session 79, edited by D. Est{\`e}ve, J.M. Raimond and J. Dalibard (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2004). This is an updated although shortened version of J. I. Cirac, L. M. Duan, and P. Zoller, in "Quantum optical implementation of quantum information processing", Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CXLVIII, p. 263, edited by F. Di Martini and C. Monroe (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2002).

id: quant-ph/0405026
title: A complete characterization of phase space measurements
authors: C. Carmeli, G. Cassinelli, E. DeVito, A. Toigo, B. Vacchini
comments: 11 pages, latex, no figures, iopart style
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 5057-5066
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405026
abstract: We characterize all the phase space measurements for a non-relativistic particle.

id: quant-ph/0405027
title: Scattering by one-dimensional smooth potentials: between WKB and Born approximation
authors: K.Yu. Bliokh, V.D. Freilikher, N.M. Makarov
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physica E
journal: Physica E 27, 262 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405027
abstract: The paper discusses the applicability of WKB and Born (small perturbations) approximations in the problem of the backscattering of quantum particles and classical waves by one-dimensional smooth potentials with amplitudes small compared to the energy of the incident particle (above-barrier scattering). Both deterministic and random potentials are considered. The dependence of the reflection coefficient and localization length on the amplitude and the longitudinal scale of the scattering potential is investigated. It is shown that perturbation and WKB theories are inconsistent in the above-barrier backscattering problem. Not only the solutions but the regions of validity of both methods as well depend strongly on the details of the potential profile, and are individual for each potential. A simple criterion that allows determining the boundary between the applicability domains of WKB and Born approximations is found.

id: quant-ph/0405028
title: Wave functions and characteristic times for transmission and reflection
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 26 pages, Latex, 8 eps-figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405028
abstract: We present a renewed wave-packet analysis based on the following ideas: if a quantum one-particle scattering process and the corresponding state are described by an indivisible wave packet to move as a whole at all stages of scattering, then they are elementary; otherwise, they are combined; each combined process consists from several alternative elementary ones to proceed simultaneously; the corresponding (normed) state can be uniquely presented as the sum of elementary ones whose (constant) norms give unit, in sum; Born's formula intended for calculating the {\it expectation} values of physical observables, as well as the standard timing procedure are valid only for elementary states and processes; only an elementary time-dependent state can be considered as the quantum counterpart to some classical one-particle rajectory. By our approach, tunneling a non-relativistic particle through a static one-dimensional potential barrier is a combined process consisting from two elementary ones, transmission and reflection. In the standard setting of the problem, we find an unique pair of solutions to the Schr\"odinger equation, which describe separately transmission and reflection. On this basis we introduce (exact and asymptotic) characteristic times for transmission and reflection.

id: quant-ph/0405029
title: Mirror Inversion of Quantum States in Linear Registers
authors: Claudio Albanese, Matthias Christandl, Nilanjana Datta, Artur Ekert
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 230502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405029
abstract: Transfer of data in linear quantum registers can be significantly simplified with pre-engineered but not dynamically controlled inter-qubit couplings. We show how to implement a mirror inversion of the state of the register in each excitation subspace with respect to the centre of the register. Our construction is especially appealing as it requires no dynamical control over individual inter-qubit interactions. If, however, individual control of the interactions is available then the mirror inversion operation can be performed on any substring of qubits in the register. In this case a sequence of mirror inversions can generate any permutation of a quantum state of the involved qubits.

id: quant-ph/0405030
title: Quantum optical implementation of quantum information processing
authors: J. I. Cirac, L. M. Duan, P. Zoller
comments: 43 pages, Lecture notes from Varenna Summer School 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405030
abstract: By popular request we post these old (from 2001) lecture notes of the Varenna Summer School Proceedings. The original was published as J. I. Cirac, L. M. Duan, and P. Zoller, in "Experimental Quantum Computation and Information" Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi", Course CXLVIII, p. 263, edited by F. Di Martini and C. Monroe (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2002).

id: quant-ph/0405031
title: Statistical properties of random density matrices
authors: Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 8 revtex pages with one eps file included, ver. 2 - minor misprints corrected
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) 8457-8466
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405031
abstract: Statistical properties of ensembles of random density matrices are investigated. We compute traces and von Neumann entropies averaged over ensembles of random density matrices distributed according to the Bures measure. The eigenvalues of the random density matrices are analyzed: we derive the eigenvalue distribution for the Bures ensemble which is shown to be broader then the quarter--circle distribution characteristic of the Hilbert--Schmidt ensemble. For measures induced by partial tracing over the environment we compute exactly the two-point eigenvalue correlation function.

id: quant-ph/0405032
title: Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma in the new representation
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: An application and development of quant-ph/0404159. QPD game here is not the exact same form with the one from Jens. New update will depends on further communication, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405032
abstract: Using the representation introduced in our another paper\cite{frame}, the well-known Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma proposed in \cite{jens}, is reexpressed and calculated. By this example and the works in \cite{frame} on classical games and Quantum Penny Flip game, which first proposed in \cite{meyer}, we show that our new representation can be a general framework for games originally in different forms.

id: quant-ph/0405033
title: Quantum thermal waves in quantum corrals
authors: J. Marciak-Kozlowska, M. Kozlowski
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405033
abstract: In this paper the possibility of the generation of the thermal waves in 2D electron gas is investigated. In the frame of the quantum heat transport theory the 2D quantum hyperbolic heat transfer equation is formulated and numerically solved. The obtained solutions are the thermal waves in electron 2D gases. As an exapmle the thermal waves in quantum corrals are described. Key words: 2D electron gas, quantum corrals, thermal waves.

id: quant-ph/0405034
title: Orienting coupled quantum rotors by ultrashort laser pulses
authors: Hiroyuki Shima, Tsuneyoshi Nakayama
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 013401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405034
abstract: We point out that the non-adiabatic orientation of quantum rotors, produced by ultrashort laser pulses, is remarkably enhanced by introducing dipolar interaction between the rotors. This enhanced orientation of quantum rotors is in contrast with the behavior of classical paired rotors, in which dipolar interactions prevent the orientation of the rotors. We demonstrate also that a specially designed sequence of pulses can most efficiently enhances the orientation of quantum paired rotors.

id: quant-ph/0405035
title: Comment on "Quantum dense key distribution"
authors: Antoni Wojcik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405035
abstract: In this Comment we question the security of recently proposed by Degiovanni et al. [Phys. Rev. A 69 (2004) 032310] scheme of quantum dense key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0405036
title: Complementarity and Information in "Delayed-choice for entanglement swapping"
authors: Caslav Brukner, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, submitted to the special issue of Foundation of Physics in honor of Asher Peres' 70th birthday
journal: Found. Phys. 37, 1909 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405036
abstract: Building on Peres's idea of "Delayed-choice for extanglement swapping" we show that even the degree to which quantum systems were entangled can be defined after they have been registered and may even not exist any more. This does not arise as a paradox if the quantum state is viewed as just a representative of information. Moreover such a view gives a natural quantification of the complementarity between the measure of information about the input state for teleportation and the amount of entanglement of the resulting swapped entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0405037
title: Inter-valley interactions in Si quantum dots
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: 
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 98, 033709 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405037
abstract: In this paper, we studied the inter-valley interactions between the orbital functions associated with multi-valley of silicon (Si) quantum dots. Numerical calculations show that the inter-valley coupling between orbital functions increases rapidly with an applied electric field. We also considered the potential applications to the quantum bit operation utilizing controlled inter-valley interactions. Quantum bits are the multi-valley symmetric and anti-symmetric orbitals. Evolution of these orbitals would be controlled by an external electric field which turns on and off the inter-valley interactions. Estimates of the decoherence time are made for the longitudinal acoustic phonon process. Elementary single and two qubit gates are also proposed.

id: quant-ph/0405038
title: Creating Boolean Functions for the Five-EPR-Pair, Single-Error-Correcting Code
authors: Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Che-Ming Li
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405038
abstract: A quantum single-error-correcting scheme can be derived from a one-way entanglement purification protocol in purifying one Bell state from a finite block of five Bell states. The main issue to be concerned with in the theory of such an error-correction is to create specific linear Boolean functions that can transform the sixteen error syndromes occurring in the error-correcting code onto their mappings so that one Bell state is corrected whenever the other four in the finite block are measured. The Boolean function is performed under the effect of its associated sequence of basic quantum unilateral and bilateral operations. Previously, the Boolean function is created in use of the Monte Carlo computer search method. We introduce here a systematic scenario for creating the Boolean function and its associated sequence of operations so that we can do the job in an analytical way without any trial and error effort. Consequently, all possible Boolean functions can in principle be created by using our method. Furthermore, for a deduced Boolean function, we can also in the spirit of our method derive its best associated sequence of operations which may contain the least number of total operations or the least number of the bilateral XOR operations alone. Some results obtained in this work show the capability of our method in creating the Boolean function and its sequence of operations.

id: quant-ph/0405039
title: Are All Particles Identical?
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, James Taylor, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 12 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A38:1567-1576,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405039
abstract: We consider the possibility that all particles in the world are fundamentally identical, i.e., belong to the same species. Different masses, charges, spins, flavors, or colors then merely correspond to different quantum states of the same particle, just as spin-up and spin-down do. The implications of this viewpoint can be best appreciated within Bohmian mechanics, a precise formulation of quantum mechanics with particle trajectories. The implementation of this viewpoint in such a theory leads to trajectories different from those of the usual formulation, and thus to a version of Bohmian mechanics that is inequivalent to, though arguably empirically indistinguishable from, the usual one. The mathematical core of this viewpoint is however rather independent of the detailed dynamical scheme Bohmian mechanics provides, and it amounts to the assertion that the configuration space for N particles, even N ``distinguishable particles,'' is the set of all N-point subsets of physical 3-space.

id: quant-ph/0405040
title: Effect of inter-subsystem couplings on the evolution of composite systems
authors: X. X. Yi, H. T. Cui, Y. H. Lin, H. S. Song
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: PRA 71, 022107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405040
abstract: The effect of inter-subsystem coupling on the adiabaticity of composite systems and that of its subsystems is investigated. Similar to the adiabatic evolution defined for pure states, non-transitional evolution for mixed states is introduced; conditions for the non-transitional evolution are derived and discussed. An example that describes two coupled qubits is presented to detail the general presentation. The effects due to non-adiabatic evolution on the geometric phase are also presented and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405041
title: Generation of macroscopic superposition states with small nonlinearity
authors: H. Jeong, M.S. Kim, T.C. Ralph, B.S. Ham
comments: Significantly improved version, to be published in PRA as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 061801(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405041
abstract: We suggest a scheme to generate a macroscopic superposition state (Schrodinger cat state) of a free-propagating optical field using a beam splitter, homodyne measurement and a very small Kerr nonlinear effect. Our scheme makes it possible to considerably reduce the required nonlinear effect to generate an optical cat state using simple and efficient optical elements.

id: quant-ph/0405042
title: Gates for the Kane Quantum Computer in the Presence of Dephasing
authors: Charles D. Hill, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405042
abstract: In this paper we investigate the effect of dephasing on proposed quantum gates for the solid-state Kane quantum computing architecture. Using a simple model of the decoherence, we find that the typical error in a CNOT gate is $8.3 \times 10^{-5}$. We also compute the fidelities of Z, X, Swap, and Controlled Z operations under a variety of dephasing rates. We show that these numerical results are comparable with the error threshold required for fault tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0405043
title: Scheme for the implementation of optimal cloning of two pairs of orthogonal states
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Wei Song
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 325/5-6 (2004) 309-314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405043
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to implement the 1-to-2 optimal cloning transformation for two pairs of orthogonal states of two-dimensional quantum systems in the context of cavity QED. The copied qubits are shown to be inseparable by using Peres-Horodecki criterion.

id: quant-ph/0405044
title: Localized states ("qubits"), entanglement and decoherence from Wigner zoo
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Presented at the Fifth Workshop on Mysteries, Puzzles and Paradoxes in Quantum Mechanics, Gargnano, Garda Lake, September 2003
journal: J. of Modern Optics, Volume 51, Numbers 6-7, 1105, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405044
abstract: We present the application of the variational-wavelet approach to the construction and analysis of solutions of Wigner/von Neumann/Moyal and related equations corresponding to the nonlinear (polynomial) dynamical problems. (Naive) deformation quantization, the multiresolution representation (exact multiscale decompostion) and the variational approach are the key points. We construct the solutions via the high-localized nonlinear eigenmodes in the base of the compactly supported wavelets and the wavelet packets. We demonstrate the appearance of (stable) localized patterns (waveletons) and consider entanglement and decoherence as possible applications.

id: quant-ph/0405045
title: Multiparticle entanglement purification for two-colorable graph states
authors: H. Aschauer, W. D¨¹r, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures; replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012319 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405045
abstract: We investigate multiparticle entanglement purification schemes which allow one to purify all two colorable graph states, a class of states which includes e.g. cluster states, GHZ states and codewords of various error correction codes. The schemes include both recurrence protocols and hashing protocols. We analyze these schemes under realistic conditions and observe for a generic error model that the threshold value for imperfect local operations depends on the structure of the corresponding interaction graph, but is otherwise independent of the number of parties. The qualitative behavior can be understood from an analytically solvable model which deals only with a restricted class of errors. We compare direct multiparticle entanglement purification protocols with schemes based on bipartite entanglement purification and show that the direct multiparticle entanglement purification is more efficient and the achievable fidelity of the purified states is larger. We also show that the purification protocol allows one to produce private entanglement, an important aspect when using the produced entangled states for secure applications. Finally we discuss an experimental realization of a multiparty purification protocol in optical lattices which is issued to improve the fidelity of cluster states created in such systems.

id: quant-ph/0405046
title: Characterization of two-qubit perfect entanglers
authors: A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 6 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052313 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405046
abstract: Here we consider perfect entanglers from another perspective. It is shown that there are some {\em special} perfect entanglers which can maximally entangle a {\em full} product basis. We have explicitly constructed a one-parameter family of such entanglers together with the proper product basis that they maximally entangle. This special family of perfect entanglers contains some well-known operators such as {\textsc{cnot}} and {\textsc{dcnot}}, but {\em not} ${\small{\sqrt{\rm{\textsc{swap}}}}}$. In addition, it is shown that all perfect entanglers with entangling power equal to the maximal value, 2/9, are also special perfect entanglers. It is proved that the one-parameter family is the only possible set of special perfect entanglers. Also we provide an analytic way to implement any arbitrary two-qubit gate, given a proper special perfect entangler supplemented with single-qubit gates. Such these gates are shown to provide a minimum universal gate construction in that just two of them are necessary and sufficient in implementation of a generic two-qubit gate.

id: quant-ph/0405047
title: Key distillation from Gaussian states by Gaussian operations
authors: M. Navascues, J. Bae, J. I. Cirac, M. Lewenstein, A. Sanpera, A. Acin
comments: 2 figures, REVTEX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 010502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405047
abstract: We study the secrecy properties of Gaussian states under Gaussian operations. Although such operations are useless for quantum distillation, we prove that it is possible to distill a secret key secure against any attack from sufficiently entangled Gaussian states with non-positive partial transposition. Moreover, all such states allow for key distillation, when Eve is assumed to perform finite-size coherent attacks before the reconciliation process.

id: quant-ph/0405048
title: Kinematic approach to off-diagonal geometric phases of nondegenerate and degenerate mixed states
authors: D.M. Tong, Erik Sj?qvist, Stefan Filipp, L.C. Kwek, C.H. Oh
comments: New section IV, new figure, journal ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405048
abstract: Off-diagonal geometric phases have been developed in order to provide information of the geometry of paths that connect noninterfering quantal states. We propose a kinematic approach to off-diagonal geometric phases for pure and mixed states. We further extend the mixed state concept proposed in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 050403 (2003)] to degenerate density operators. The first and second order off-diagonal geometric phases are analyzed for unitarily evolving pairs of pseudopure states.

id: quant-ph/0405049
title: A bipartite class of entanglement monotones for N-qubit pure states
authors: Clive Emary
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405049
abstract: We construct a class of algebraic invariants for N-qubit pure states based on bipartite decompositions of the system. We show that they are entanglement monotones, and that they differ from the well know linear entropies of the sub-systems. They therefore capture new information on the non-local properties of multipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0405050
title: Demonstrating quantum algorithm acceleration with NMR quantum computer
authors: Mikio Nakahara, Yasushi Kondo, Kazuya Hata, Shogo Tanimura
comments: 6 pages, revtex, 1 table, experimental details added, 1 figure added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405050
abstract: In general, a quantum circuit is constructed with elementary gates, such as one-qubit gates and CNOT gates. It is possible, however, to speed up the execution time of a given circuit by merging those elementary gates together into larger modules, such that the desired unitary matrix expressing the algorithm is directly implemented. We demonstrate this by taking the two-qubit Grover's algorithm implemented in NMR quantum computation, whose pseudopure state is generated by cyclic permutations of the state populations. This is the first exact time-optimal solution, to our knowledge, obtained for a self-contained quantum algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0405051
title: Nonclassical-light generation in a photonic band-gap nonlinear planar waveguide
authors: Jan Perina Jr., Concita Sibilia, Daniela Tricca, Mario Bertolotti
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 043816 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405051
abstract: Optical parametric process occurring in a photonic band-gap planar waveguide is studied from the point of view of nonclassical-light generation. Nonlinearly interacting optical fields are described by the generalized superposition of coherent signals and noise using the method of operator linear corrections to a classical strong solution. Scattered backward-propagating fields are taken into account. Squeezed light as well as light with sub-Poissonian statistics can be obtained in two-mode fields under the specified conditions.

id: quant-ph/0405052
title: Geometric phase distributions for open quantum systems
authors: K.-P. Marzlin, S. Ghose, B.C. Sanders
comments: Some minor revisions, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, p. 260402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405052
abstract: In an open system, the geometric phase should be described by a distribution. We show that a geometric phase distribution for open system dynamics is in general ambiguous, but the imposition of reasonable physical constraints on the environment and its coupling with the system yields a unique geometric phase distribution that applies even for mixed states, non-unitary dynamics, and non-cyclic evolutions.

id: quant-ph/0405053
title: Matrix Element Randomness, Entanglement, and Quantum Chaos
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405053
abstract: We demonstrate the connection between an operator's matrix element distribution and entangling power via numerical simulations of random, pseudo-random, and quantum chaotic operators. Creating operators with a random distribution of matrix elements is more difficult than creating operators that reproduce other statistical properties of random matrices. Thus, operators that fulfill many random matrix statistical properties may not generate states of high multi-partite entanglement. To quantify the randomness of various statistical distributions and, by extension, entangling power, we use properties of interpolating ensembles that transition between integrable and random matrix ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0405054
title: Dynamically localized systems: entanglement exponential sensitivity and efficient quantum simulations
authors: Simone Montangero
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032311 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405054
abstract: We study the pairwise entanglement present in a quantum computer that simulates a dynamically localized system. We show that the concurrence is exponentially sensitive to changes in the Hamiltonian of the simulated system. Moreover, concurrence is exponentially sensitive to the ``logic'' position of the qubits chosen. These sensitivities could be experimentally checked efficiently by means of quantum simulations with less than ten qubits. We also show that the feasibility of efficient quantum simulations is deeply connected to the dynamical regime of the simulated system.

id: quant-ph/0405055
title: Realistic model for radiation-matter interaction
authors: Richard A. Pakula
comments: 55 pages including 2 figures. Version 2: added Table of Contents and a relativistic generalization of the model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405055
abstract: This paper presents a realistic model that describes radiation-matter interactions. This is achieved by a generalization of first quantization, where the Maxwell equations are interpreted as the electromagnetic component of the Schroedinger equation. This picture is complemented by the consideration of electrons and photons as real particles in three-dimensional space, following guiding conditions derived from the particle-wave-functions to which they are associated. The guiding condition for the electron is taken from Bohmian mechanics, while the photon velocity is defined as the ratio between the Poynting vector and the electromagnetic energy density. The case of many particles is considered, taking into account their statistical properties. The formalism is applied to a two level system, providing a satisfactory description for spontaneous emission, Lamb shift, scattering, absorption, dispersion, resonance fluorescence and vacuum fields. This model adequately describes quantum jumps by the entanglement between the photon and the atomic system and it will prove to be very useful in the simulation of quantum devices for quantum computers and quantum information systems. A possible relativistic generalization is presented, together with its relationship to QED.

id: quant-ph/0405056
title: Ghost imaging, quantum and classical aspects
authors: A. Gatti, E.Brambilla, M. Bache, L. A.Lugiato
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, in press in Phys. Rev. A (May 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405056
abstract: We analytically show that it is possible to perform coherent imaging by using the classical correlation of two beams obtained by splitting incoherent thermal radiation. A formal analogy is demonstrated between two such classically correlated beams and two entangled beams produced by parametric down-conversion. Because of this analogy, the classical beams can mimic qualitatively all the imaging properties of the entangled beams, even in ways which up to now were not believed possible. A key feature is that these classical beams are spatially correlated both in the near-field and in the far-field. Using realistic numerical simulations the performances of a quasi-thermal and a parametric down-conversion source are shown to be closely similar, both for what concerns the resolution and statistical properties. The results of this paper provide a new scenario for the discussion of what role the entanglement plays in correlated imaging.

id: quant-ph/0405057
title: Understanding Popper's Experiment
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Edited version, to appear in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys. 73 (6) (2005) 541-544
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405057
abstract: An experiment proposed by Karl Popper is considered by many to be a crucial test of quantum mechanics. Although many loopholes in the original proposal have been pointed out, they are not crucial to the test. We use only the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics to point out what is fundamentally wrong with the proposal, and demonstrate that Popper's basic premise was faulty.

id: quant-ph/0405058
title: Error in an argument regarding "improper" mixtures
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 2 pp. Contains the substantive part of quant-ph/0109146, which it replaces
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405058
abstract: An argument, perhaps originating with Feyerabend a half century ago, and repeated many times since, purporting to establish that an "ignorance interpretation" of a bipartite pure entangled state leads to logical inconsistency, is incorrect: the argument fails to account for the effects of indistinguishability.

id: quant-ph/0405059
title: Consistency of the Adiabatic Theorem
authors: M.S. Sarandy, L.-A. Wu, D.A. Lidar
comments: v3: 11 pages, no figures. Published version. This pedagogical work is part comment on, part simplification of the paper "Inconsistency in the application of the adiabatic theorem" by K.-P. Marzlin and B.C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408 (2004)
journal: Quantum Information Processing 3, 331 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405059
abstract: We review the quantum adiabatic approximation for closed systems, and its recently introduced generalization to open systems (M.S. Sarandy and D.A. Lidar, e-print quant-ph/0404147). We also critically examine a recent argument claiming that there is an inconsistency in the adiabatic theorem for closed quantum systems [K.P. Marzlin and B.C. Sanders, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408 (2004)] and point out how an incorrect manipulation of the adiabatic theorem may lead one to obtain such an inconsistent result.

id: quant-ph/0405060
title: Thermal entanglement of spins in the Heisenberg model at low temperatures
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour
comments: 17 pages, RevTex, no figures, revised with references added
journal: Physical Rev. A, 70, 052307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405060
abstract: We calculate the entanglement between two spins in the ferromagnetic Heisenberg chain at low temperatures, and show that when only the ground state and the one particle states are populated, the entanglement profile is a gaussian with a characteristic length depending on the temperature and the coupling between spins. The magnetic field only affects the amplitude of the profile and not its characteristic length.

id: quant-ph/0405061
title: Complete quantum control of the population transfer branching ratio between two degenerate target states
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Stuart A. Rice
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, to appear in J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 121, 1364 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405061
abstract: A five-level four-pulse phase-sensitive extended stimulated Raman adiabatic passage scheme is proposed to realize complete control of the population transfer branching ratio between two degenerate target states. The control is achieved via a three-node null eigenstate that can be correlated with an arbitrary superposition of the target states. Our results suggest that complete suppression of the yield of one of two degenerate product states, and therefore absolute selectivity in photochemistry, is achievable and predictable, even without studying the properties of the unwanted product state beforehand.

id: quant-ph/0405062
title: Ordered and periodic chaos of the bounded one dimensinal multibarrier potential
authors: D. Bar
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, 1 Table. Some former text removed and other introduced
journal: IJTP, 44, 1383-1398 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405062
abstract: Numerical analysis indicates that there exists an unexpected new ordered chaos for the bounded one-dimensional multibarrier potential. For certain values of the number of barriers, repeated identical forms (periods) of the wavepackets result upon passing through the multibarrier potential.

id: quant-ph/0405063
title: Separable Multipartite Mixed States - Operational Asymptotically Necessary and Sufficient Conditions
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters. Revised version with new calculations
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 220503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405063
abstract: We introduce an operational procedure to determine, with arbitrary probability and accuracy, optimal entanglement witness for every multipartite entangled state. This method provides an operational criterion for separability which is asymptotically necessary and sufficient. Our results are also generalized to detect all different types of multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0405064
title: Stabilizer Codes for Continuous-variable Quantum Error Correction
authors: Richard L. Barnes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405064
abstract: A generalization of the stabilizer code construction presented by Gottesman is described, which allows for the construction of quantum error-correcting codes for continuous-variable systems. This formalism describes all continuous-variable codes presented to date, and can be used to construct new codes based on discrete-variable codes or classical codes. We use it to describe the nine-mode code given by Lloyd and Slotine, and a five-mode code described by Braunstein. In addition, we construct a new continuous-variable code based an code of Gottesman which encodes three logical modes of information into eight physical modes and corrects one error. This generalization is a step toward an independent understanding of continuous-variable quantum information and a theory of fault-tolerant quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0405065
title: Analysis of Superoscillatory Wave Functions
authors: M.S. Calder, A. Kempf
comments: 20 pages, several figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 012101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405065
abstract: Surprisingly, differentiable functions are able to oscillate arbitrarily faster than their highest Fourier component would suggest. The phenomenon is called superoscillation. Recently, a practical method for calculating superoscillatory functions was presented and it was shown that superoscillatory quantum mechanical wave functions should exhibit a number of counter-intuitive physical effects. Following up on this work, we here present more general methods which allow the calculation of superoscillatory wave functions with custom-designed physical properties. We give concrete examples and we prove results about the limits to superoscillatory behavior. We also give a simple and intuitive new explanation for the exponential computational cost of superoscillations.

id: quant-ph/0405066
title: Adaptive phase estimation is more accurate than non-adaptive phase estimation for continuous beams of light
authors: D. T. Pope, H. M. Wiseman, N. K. Langford
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405066
abstract: We consider the task of estimating the randomly fluctuating phase of a continuous-wave beam of light. Using the theory of quantum parameter estimation, we show that this can be done more accurately when feedback is used (adaptive phase estimation) than by any scheme not involving feedback (non-adaptive phase estimation) in which the beam is measured as it arrives at the detector. Such schemes not involving feedback include all those based on heterodyne detection or instantaneous canonical phase measurements. We also demonstrate that the superior accuracy adaptive phase estimation is present in a regime conducive to observing it experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0405067
title: Entanglement and quantum phase transition in the extended Hubbard model
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Shu-Sa Deng, You-Quan Li, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 086402 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405067
abstract: We study quantum entanglement in one-dimensional correlated fermionic system. Our results show, for the first time, that entanglement can be used to identify quantum phase transitions in fermionic systems.

id: quant-ph/0405068
title: Dark evolution in a time-varying Zeno subspace
authors: C. K. Law
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405068
abstract: We investigate the evolution of a quantum system under the influence of sequential measurements. The measurement scheme distinguishes whether or not the system is in a specified state $| {f_n}>$ at the $n^{\rm th}$ step, where $| {f_n}>$ varies with $n$. Dark evolution corresponds to the situation when all measurements give negative results. We show that dark evolution is unitary in the continuous measurement limit. We derive the effective Hamiltonian, and indicate how $| {f_n}>$ controls quantum state transport.

id: quant-ph/0405069
title: On the principles of quantum mechanics
authors: Eijiro Sakai
comments: 38 pages, slightly revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405069
abstract: We propose six principles as the fundamental principles of quantum mechanics: principle of space and time, Galilean principle of relativity, Hamilton's principle, wave principle, probability principle, and principle of indestructibility and increatiblity of particles. We deductively develop the formalism of quantum mechanics on the basis of them: we determine the form of the Lagrangian that satisfies requirements of these principles, and obtain the Schroedinger equation from the Lagrangian. We also derive the canonical commutation relations. Then we adopt the following four guide lines. First, we do not premise the relations between dynamical variables in classical mechanics. Second, we define energy, momentum, and angular momentum as the constants of motion that are derived from homogeneity and isotropy in space and time on the basis of principle of space and time. Since energy and momentum are quantitatively defined in classical mechanics, we define them in quantum mechanics so that the corresponding conservation laws are satisfied in a coupling system of a quantum particle and a classical particle. Third, we define Planck's constant and the mass of a particle as proportionality constants between energy and frequency due to one of Einstein-de Broglie formulas and between momentum and velocity, respectively. We shall obtain the canonical commutation relations and the Schroedinger equation for a particle in an external field in the definitive form. We shall also prove that relations between dynamical variables in quantum mechanics have the same forms for those in classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0405070
title: Discrete Wigner functions and quantum computational speedup
authors: Ernesto F. Galvao
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX. v2: clarified discussion on dynamics, added refs., published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405070
abstract: In [Phys. Rev. A 70, 062101 (2004)] Gibbons et al. defined a class of discrete Wigner functions W to represent quantum states in a finite Hilbert space dimension d. I characterize a set C_d of states having non-negative W simultaneously in all definitions of W in this class. For d<6 I show C_d is the convex hull of stabilizer states. This supports the conjecture that negativity of W is necessary for exponential speedup in pure-state quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0405071
title: Conditional Aharonov-Bohm Phases with Double Quantum Dots
authors: Roberta Rodriquez, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, submitted to "Progress in Quantum Dot Research", Nova Science Publishers, Inc
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405071
abstract: A quantum dot proposal for the implementation of topological quantum computation is presented. The coupling of the electron charge to an external magnetic field via the Aharonov-Bohm effect, combined with the control dynamics of a double dot, results in a two-qubit control phase gate. The physical mechanisms of the system are analysed in detail and the conditions for performing quantum computation resilient to control errors are outlined and found to be realisable with present technology.

id: quant-ph/0405072
title: s-ordered phase-sum and phase-difference distribuitons of entangled coherent states
authors: Adrian Alexandrescu, Diethard Schiller
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, iopart. accepted for publication in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass Opt
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass Opt. 6, 360-364 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405072
abstract: The $s$-ordered phase-sum and phase-difference distributions are considered for Bell-like superpositions of two-mode coherent states. The distributions are sensitive, respectively, to the sum and difference of the phases of the entangled coherent states. They show loss of information about the entangled state and may take on negative values for some orderings $s$.

id: quant-ph/0405073
title: Experimental Investigation of Nonideal Two-qubit Quantum-state Filter by Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405073
abstract: We used quantum process tomography to investigate and identify the function of a nonideal two-qubit quantum-state filters subject to various degree of decoherence. We present a simple decoherence model that explains the experimental results and point out that a beamsplitter followed by a post-selection process is not, as commonly believed, a singlet-state filter. In the ideal case it is a triplet-state filter.

id: quant-ph/0405074
title: Distillation of Entanglement between Distant Systems by Repeated Measurements on Entanglement Mediator
authors: G. Compagno, A. Messina, H. Nakazato, A. Napoli, M. Unoki, K. Yuasa
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures; the version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 052316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405074
abstract: A recently proposed purification method, in which the Zeno-like measurements of a subsystem can bring about a distillation of another subsystem in interaction with the former, is utilized to yield entangled states between distant systems. It is shown that the measurements of a two-level system locally interacting with other two spatially separated not coupled subsystems, can distill entangled states from the latter irrespectively of the initial states of the two subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0405075
title: High performance guided-wave asynchronous heralded single photon source
authors: Olivier Alibart, Daniel Barry Ostrowsky, Pascal Baldi, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 30, 12 (2005) 1539
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405075
abstract: We report on a guided wave heralded photon source based on the creation of non-degenerate photon pairs by spontaneous parametric down conversion in a Periodically Poled Lithium Niobate waveguide. Using the signal photon at 1310 nm as a trigger, a gated detection process permits announcing the arrival of single photons at 1550 nm at the output of a single mode optical fiber with a high probability of 0.38. At the same time the multi-photon emission probability is reduced by a factor of 10 compared to poissonian light sources. Relying on guided wave technologies such as integrated optics and fiber optics components, our source offers stability, compactness and efficiency and can serve as a paradigm for guided wave devices applied to quantum communication and computation using existing telecom networks.

id: quant-ph/0405076
title: Remarks on Aharanov-Bohm effect and geometric phase
authors: S C Tiwari
comments: Short note prior to work on frequency shifts
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405076
abstract: Recently the physical mechanism for geometric phase in optics has been elucidated in terms of the angular momentum holonomy proposed in 1992. Aharonov and Kaufherr (PRL, 92, 070404, 2004) revisit the Aharonov-Bohm effect, and propose non-local exchange of a conserved, gauge invariant quantity that changes the modular momentum of the particle that is responsible for the AB phase shift. We suggest that the net angular momentum shifts proposed for GP may be analogous to the shift in the modulus momentum for the AB effect. At a single photon or electron level such non-trivial, geometric effects seem to hint at a new physics.

id: quant-ph/0405077
title: On the maximal dimension of a completely entangled subspace for finite level quantum systems
authors: K. R. Parthasarathy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405077
abstract: Let $\mathcal{H}_i$ be a finite dimensional complex Hilbert space of dimension $d_i$ associated with a finite level quantum system $A_i$ for $i = i, 1,2, ..., k$. A subspace $S \subset \mathcal{H} = \mathcal{H}_{A_{1} A_{2}... A_{k}} = \mathcal{H}_1 \otimes \mathcal{H}_2 \otimes ... \otimes \mathcal{H}_k $ is said to be {\it completely entangled} if it has no nonzero product vector of the form $u_1 \otimes u_2 \otimes ... \otimes u_k$ with $u_i$ in $\mathcal{H}_i$ for each $i$. Using the methods of elementary linear algebra and the intersection theorem for projective varieties in basic algebraic geometry we prove that $$\max_{S \in \mathcal{E}} \dim S = d_1 d_2... d_k - (d_1 + ... + d_k) + k - 1$$ where $\mathcal{E} $ is the collection of all completely entangled subspaces. When $\mathcal{H}_1 = \mathcal{H}_2 $ and $k = 2$ an explicit orthonormal basis of a maximal completely entangled subspace of $\mathcal{H}_1 \otimes \mathcal{H}_2$ is given. We also introduce a more delicate notion of a {\it perfectly entangled} subspace for a multipartite quantum system, construct an example using the theory of stabilizer quantum codes and pose a problem.

id: quant-ph/0405078
title: A Class of Special Matrices and Quantum Entanglement
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 17 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 53 (2004) 195-210
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405078
abstract: We present a kind of construction for a class of special matrices with at most two different eigenvalues, in terms of some interesting multiplicators which are very useful in calculating eigenvalue polynomials of these matrices. This class of matrices defines a special kind of quantum states -- $d$-computable states. The entanglement of formation for a large class of quantum mixed states is explicitly presented.

id: quant-ph/0405079
title: Distilling angular momentum nonclassical states in trapped ions
authors: B.Militello, A.Messina
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405079
abstract: In the spirit of Quantum Non-Demolition Measurements, we show that exploiting suitable vibronic couplings and repeatedly measuring the atomic population of a confined ion, it is possible to distill center of mass vibrational states with well defined square of angular momentum or, alternatively, angular momentum projection Schr\"odinger cat states.

id: quant-ph/0405080
title: Initial states and decoherence of histories
authors: Artur Scherer, Andrei N. Soklakov
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 042108 (2005) ; with minor changes.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405080
abstract: We study decoherence properties of arbitrarily long histories constructed from a fixed projective partition of a finite dimensional Hilbert space. We show that decoherence of such histories for all initial states that are naturally induced by the projective partition implies decoherence for arbitrary initial states. In addition we generalize the simple necessary decoherence condition [Scherer et al., Phys. Lett. A (2004)] for such histories to the case of arbitrary coarse-graining.

id: quant-ph/0405081
title: Quantum Computing and Zeroes of Zeta Functions
authors: Wim van Dam
comments: 18 pages, AMS-LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405081
abstract: A possible connection between quantum computing and Zeta functions of finite field equations is described. Inspired by the 'spectral approach' to the Riemann conjecture, the assumption is that the zeroes of such Zeta functions correspond to the eigenvalues of finite dimensional unitary operators of natural quantum mechanical systems. The notion of universal, efficient quantum computation is used to model the desired quantum systems. Using eigenvalue estimation, such quantum circuits would be able to approximately count the number of solutions of finite field equations with an accuracy that does not appear to be feasible with a classical computer. For certain equations (Fermat hypersurfaces) it is show that one can indeed model their Zeta functions with efficient quantum algorithms, which gives some evidence in favor of the proposal of this article.

id: quant-ph/0405082
title: Quantum reverse-engineering and reference frame alignment without non-local correlations
authors: E. Bagan, M. Baig, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 030301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405082
abstract: Estimation of unknown qubit elementary gates and alignment of reference frames are formally the same problem. Using quantum states made out of $N$ qubits, we show that the theoretical precision limit for both problems, which behaves as $1/N^{2}$, can be asymptotically attained with a covariant protocol that exploits the quantum correlation of internal degrees of freedom instead of the more fragile entanglement between distant parties. This cuts by half the number of qubits needed to achieve the precision of the dense covariant coding protocol.

id: quant-ph/0405083
title: Secure Deterministic Communication Without Entanglement
authors: M. Lucamarini, S. Mancini
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Corrected typos in the field "Authors"; added one reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 140501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405083
abstract: We propose a protocol for deterministic communication that does not make use of entanglement. It exploits nonorthogonal states in a two-way quantum channel attaining significant improvement of security and efficiency over already known cryptographic protocols. The presented scheme, being deterministic, can be devoted to direct communication as well as to key distribution, and its experimental realization is feasible with present day technology.

id: quant-ph/0405084
title: Minimal qubit tomography
authors: Jaroslav ?eh¨¢?ek, Berthold-Georg Englert, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures; final version
journal: Physical Review A 70, 052321 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405084
abstract: We present, and analyze thoroughly, a highly symmetric and efficient scheme for the determination of a single-qubit state, such as the polarization properties of photons emitted by a single-photon source. In our scheme there are only four measured probabilities, just enough for the determination of the three parameters that specify the qubit state, whereas the standard procedure would measure six probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0405085
title: Scaling of entanglement in finite arrays of exchange-coupled quantum dots
authors: Jiaxiang Wang, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405085
abstract: We present a finite-size scaling analysis of the entanglement in a two-dimensional arrays of quantum dots modeled by the Hubbard Hamiltonian on a triangular lattice. Using multistage block renormalization group approach, we have found that there is an abrupt jump of the entanglement when a first-order quantum phase transition occurs. At the critical point, the entanglement is constant, independent of the block size.

id: quant-ph/0405086
title: Quantum Color-Coding Is Better
authors: Joshua Von Korff, Julia Kempe
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 93 (26), 260502 (2004); new title "Quantum Advantage in Transmitting a Permutation"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405086
abstract: We describe a quantum scheme to ``color-code'' a set of objects in order to record which one is which. In the classical case, N distinct colors are required to color-code N objects. We show that in the quantum case, only N/e distinct ``colors'' are required, where e = 2.71828 . . . If the number of colors is less than optimal, the objects may still be correctly distinguished with some success probability less than 1. We show that the success probability of the quantum scheme is better than the corresponding classical one and is information-theoretically optimal.

id: quant-ph/0405087
title: Scaling of entanglement at quantum phase transition for two-dimensional array of quantum dots
authors: Jiaxiang Wang, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405087
abstract: With Hubbard model, the entanglement scaling behavior in a two-dimensional itinerant system is investigated. It has been found that, on the two sides of the critical point denoting an inherent quantum phase transition (QPT), the entanglement follows different scalings with the size just as an order parameter does. This fact reveals the subtle role played by the entanglement in QPT as a fungible physical resource.

id: quant-ph/0405088
title: Size effects in the electronic properties of finite arrays of exchange coupled quantum dots: A renormalization group approach
authors: Jiaxiang Wang, Sabre Kais, F. Remacle, R. D. Levine
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405088
abstract: Transport properties of arrays of metallic quantum dots are governed by the distance-dependent exchange coupling between the dots. It is shown that the effective value of the exchange coupling, as measured by the charging energy per dot, depends monotonically on the size of the array. The effect saturates for hexagonal arrays of over 7^5 unit cells. The discussion uses a multi-stage block renormalization group approach applied to the Hubbard Hamiltonian. A first order phase transition occurs upon compression of the lattice and the size dependence is qualitatively different for the two phases.

id: quant-ph/0405089
title: Combinatorial Approaches in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Sudhir Kumar Singh
comments: MSc Thesis, Dept. of Mathematics, IIT Kharagpur, India; Recommended for the "Best Project Award" of the dept
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405089
abstract: We investigate the exploitation of various combinatorial properties of graphs and set systems to study several issues in quantum information theory. We characterize the combinatorics of distributed EPR pairs for preparing multi-partite entanglement in a real communication network. This combinatorics helps in the study of various problems in multi-party case by just reducing to the two-party case. Particularly, we use this combinatorics to (1) study various possible and impossible transformations of multi-partite states under LOCC, thus presenting an entirely new approach, not based on entropic criterion, to study such state transformations. (2) present a protocol and proof of its unconditional security for quantum key distribution amongst several trusted parties. (3) propose an idea to combine the features of quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing. We investigate all the above issues in great detail and finally conclude briefly with some open research directions based on our research.

id: quant-ph/0405090
title: The spectrum of a quantum potential
authors: Paolo Amore, Jorge Lopez
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405090
abstract: We apply a method recently devised by one of the authors to obtain an approximate analytical formula for the spectrum of a quantum anharmonic potential. Due to its general features the method can be applied with minimal effort to general quantum potentials thus allowing very promising applications.

id: quant-ph/0405091
title: New intensity and visibility aspects of a double loop neutron interferometer
authors: M. Suda, H. Rauch, M. Peev
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in the Journal of Optics B - Quantum and Semiclassical Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405091
abstract: Various phase shifters and absorbers can be put into the arms of a double loop neutron interferometer. The mean intensity levels of the forward and diffracted beams behind an empty four plate interferometer of this type have been calculated. It is shown that the intensities in the forward and diffracted direction can be made equal using certain absorbers. In this case the interferometer can be regarded as a 50/50 beam splitter. Furthermore the visibilities of single and double loop interferometers are compared to each other by varying the transmission in the first loop using different absorbers. It can be shown that the visibility becomes exactly 1 using a phase shifter in the second loop. In this case the phase shifter in the second loop must be strongly correlated to the transmission coefficient of the absorber in the first loop. Using such a device homodyne-like measurements of very weak signals should become possible.

id: quant-ph/0405092
title: Kinematic approach to the mixed state geometric phase in nonunitary evolution
authors: D.M. Tong, E. Sj?qvist, L.C. Kwek, C.H. Oh
comments: Minor changes; journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 080405 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405092
abstract: A kinematic approach to the geometric phase for mixed quantal states in nonunitary evolution is proposed. This phase is manifestly gauge invariant and can be experimentally tested in interferometry. It leads to well-known results when the evolution is unitary.

id: quant-ph/0405093
title: How Quantum Entanglement Helps to Coordinate Non-Communicating Players
authors: Gleb V. Klimovitch
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405093
abstract: We consider a coalitional game with the same payoff for all players. To maximize the payoff, the players need to use one collective strategy, if all players are in certain states, and the other strategy otherwise. The current state of each player changes according to external conditions and is not known to the other players. In one example of such a game, quantum entanglement between players results in the optimal payoff thrice the maximal payoff for unentangled players.

id: quant-ph/0405094
title: Experimental Quantum Cloning with Prior Partial Information
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Thomas Durt, Ping Zou, Hui Li, L.C. Kwek, C.H. Lai, C.H. Oh, Artur Ekert
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405094
abstract: When prior partial information about a state to be cloned is available, it can be cloned with a fidelity higher than that of universal quantum cloning. We experimentally verify this intriguing relationship between the cloning fidelity and the prior information by reporting the first experimental optimal quantum state-dependent cloning, using nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. Our experiments may further have important implications into many quantum information processing protocols.

id: quant-ph/0405095
title: Efficient use of quantum resources for the transmission of a reference frame
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, no figures; added new references and improved introduction. Accepted for publication on PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 180503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405095
abstract: We propose a covariant protocol for transmitting reference frames encoded on $N$ spins, achieving sensitivity $N^{-2}$ without the need of a pre-established reference frame and without using entanglement between sender and receiver. The protocol exploits the use of equivalent representations, which were overlooked in the previous literature.

id: quant-ph/0405096
title: Witnessed Entanglement
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: Revised version. 7 pages and one figure
journal: International Journal of Quantun Information 4, 331 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405096
abstract: We present a new measure of entanglement for mixed states. It can be approximately computable for every state and can be used to quantify all different types of multipartite entanglement. We show that it satisfies the usual properties of a good entanglement quantifier and derive relations between it and other entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0405097
title: Quantum key distribution with 1.25 Gbps clock synchronization
authors: J. C. Bienfang, A. J. Gross, A. Mink, B. J. Hershman, A. Nakassis, X. Tang, R. Lu, D. H. Su, Charles W Clark, Carl J. Williams, E. W. Hagley, Jesse Wen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 99 kB .pdf document
journal: Optics Express 12, 2011-2016 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405097
abstract: We have demonstrated the exchange of sifted quantum cryptographic key over a 730 meter free-space link at rates of up to 1.0 Mbps, two orders of magnitude faster than previously reported results. A classical channel at 1550 nm operates in parallel with a quantum channel at 845 nm. Clock recovery techniques on the classical channel at 1.25 Gbps enable quantum transmission at up to the clock rate. System performance is currently limited by the timing resolution of our silicon avalanche photodiode detectors. With improved detector resolution, our technique will yield another order of magnitude increase in performance, with existing technology.

id: quant-ph/0405098
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computation is Equivalent to Standard Quantum Computation
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Wim van Dam, Julia Kempe, Zeph Landau, Seth Lloyd, Oded Regev
comments: 30 pages, updated version
journal: SIAM Journal of Computing, Vol. 37, Issue 1, p. 166-194 (2007), conference version in Proc. 45th FOCS, p. 42-51 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405098
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation has recently attracted attention in the physics and computer science communities, but its computational power was unknown. We describe an efficient adiabatic simulation of any given quantum algorithm, which implies that the adiabatic computation model and the conventional quantum computation model are polynomially equivalent. Our result can be extended to the physically realistic setting of particles arranged on a two-dimensional grid with nearest neighbor interactions. The equivalence between the models provides a new vantage point from which to tackle the central issues in quantum computation, namely designing new quantum algorithms and constructing fault tolerant quantum computers. In particular, by translating the main open questions in the area of quantum algorithms to the language of spectral gaps of sparse matrices, the result makes these questions accessible to a wider scientific audience, acquainted with mathematical physics, expander theory and rapidly mixing Markov chains.

id: quant-ph/0405099
title: Vibrational coherent quantum computation
authors: Mauro Paternostro, M. S. Kim, P. L. Knight
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022311 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405099
abstract: A long-lived coherent state and non-linear interaction have been experimentally demonstrated for the vibrational mode of a trapped ion. We propose an implementation of quantum computation using coherent states of the vibrational modes of trapped ions. Differently from earlier experiments, we consider a far-off resonance for the interaction between external fields and the ion in a bidimensional trap. By appropriate choices of the detunings between the external fields, the adiabatic elimination of the ionic excited level from the Hamiltonian of the system allows for beam splitting between orthogonal vibrational modes, production of coherent states and non-linear interactions of various kinds. In particular, this model enables the generation of the four coherent Bell states. Furthermore, all the necessary operations for quantum computation such as preparation of qubits, one-qubit and controlled two-qubit operations, are possible. The detection of the state of a vibrational mode in a Bell state is made possible by the combination of resonant and off-resonant interactions between the ion and some external fields. We show that our read-out scheme provides highly efficient discrimination between all the four Bell states. We extend this to a quantum register composed of many individually trapped ions. In this case, operations on two remote qubits are possible through a cavity mode. We emphasize that our remote-qubit operation scheme does not require a high quality factor resonator: the cavity field acts as a catalyst for the gate operation.

id: quant-ph/0405100
title: Bell's Inequality Violation (BIQV) with Non-Negative Wigner Function
authors: M. Revzen, P. A. Mello, A. Mann, L. M. Johansen
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405100
abstract: A Bell inequality violation (BIQV) allowed by the two-mode squeezed state (TMSS), whose Wigner function is nonnegative, is shown to hold only for correlations among dynamical variables (DV) that cannot be interpreted via a local hidden variable (LHV) theory. Explicit calculations and interpretation are given for Bell's suggestion that the EPR (Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen) state will not allow for BIQV in conjuction with its Wigner representative state being nonnegative. It is argued that Bell's theorem disallowing the violation of Bell's inequality within a local hidden-variable theory depends on the DV's having a definite value --assigned by the LHV-- even when they cannot be simultaneously measured. The analysis leads us to conclude that BIQV is to be associated with endowing these definite values to the DV's and {\it not} with their locality attributes.

id: quant-ph/0405101
title: No Signalling and Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Lucien Hardy, Adrian Kent
comments: Clarifications and minor revisions in response to comments. Final version; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 010503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405101
abstract: Standard quantum key distribution protocols are provably secure against eavesdropping attacks, if quantum theory is correct. It is theoretically interesting to know if we need to assume the validity of quantum theory to prove the security of quantum key distribution, or whether its security can be based on other physical principles. The question would also be of practical interest if quantum mechanics were ever to fail in some regime, because a scientifically and technologically advanced eavesdropper could perhaps use post-quantum physics to extract information from quantum communications without necessarily causing the quantum state disturbances on which existing security proofs rely. Here we describe a key distribution scheme provably secure against general attacks by a post-quantum eavesdropper who is limited only by the impossibility of superluminal signalling. The security of the scheme stems from violation of a Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0405102
title: High Temperature Macroscopic Entanglement
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: New J. Phys. 6, 102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405102
abstract: In this paper I intend to show that macroscopic entanglement is possible at high temperatures. I analyze multipartite entanglement produced by the $\eta$ pairing mechanism which features strongly in the fermionic lattice models of high $T_c$ superconductivity. This problem is shown to be equivalent to calculating multipartite entanglement in totally symmetric states of qubits. I demonstrate that we can conclusively calculate the relative entropy of entanglement within any subset of qubits in an overall symmetric state. Three main results then follow. First, I show that the condition for superconductivity, namely the existence of the off diagonal long range order (ODLRO), is not dependent on two-site entanglement, but on just classical correlations as the sites become more and more distant. Secondly, the entanglement that does survive in the thermodynamical limit is the entanglement of the total lattice and, at half filling, it scales with the log of the number of sites. It is this entanglement that will exist at temperatures below the superconducting critical temperature, which can currently be as high as 160 Kelvin. Thirdly, I prove that a complete mixture of symmetric states does not contain any entanglement in the macroscopic limit. On the other hand, the same mixture of symmetric states possesses the same two qubit entanglement features as the pure states involved, in the sense that the mixing does not destroy entanglement for finite number of qubits, albeit it does decrease it. Maximal mixing of symmetric states also does not destroy ODLRO and classical correlations. I discuss various other inequalities between different entanglements as well as generalizations to the subsystems of any dimensionality (i.e. higher than spin half).

id: quant-ph/0405103
title: Some useful combinatorial formulae for bosonic operators
authors: P. Blasiak, K.A. Penson, A.I. Solomon, A. Horzela, G.E.H. Duchamp
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 17 references
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46: 052110 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405103
abstract: We give a general expression for the normally ordered form of a function F(w(a,a*)) where w is a function of boson annihilation and creation operators satisfying [a,a*]=1. The expectation value of this expression in a coherent state becomes an exact generating function of Feynman-type graphs associated with the zero-dimensional Quantum Field Theory defined by F(w). This enables one to enumerate explicitly the graphs of given order in the realm of combinatorially defined sequences. We give several examples of the use of this technique, including the applications to Kerr-type and superfluidity-type hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0405104
title: Multigrid solution of a path integral formulation for the hydrogen atom
authors: Dov Bai
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405104
abstract: An efficient multigrid Monte-Carlo algorithm for calculating the ground state of the hydrogen atom using path integral is presented. The algorithm uses a unigrid approach. The action integral near r=0 is modified so that the correct values of observables are obtained. It is demonstrated that the critical slow down (CSD) is eliminated. Finally, the algorithm is compared to the staging algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0405105
title: Quantum Cryptography without Switching
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Andrew M. Lance, Warwick P. Bowen, Thomas Symul, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Submitted
journal: Published, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170504 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405105
abstract: We propose a new coherent state quantum key distribution protocol that eliminates the need to randomly switch between measurement bases. This protocol provides significantly higher secret key rates with increased bandwidths than previous schemes that only make single quadrature measurements. It also offers the further advantage of simplicity compared to all previous protocols which, to date, have relied on switching.

id: quant-ph/0405106
title: Acoustic Casimir Pressure for Arbitrary Media
authors: J. Barcenas, L. Reyes, R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405106
abstract: In this paper we derive a general expression for the acoustic Casimir pressure between two parallel slabs made of arbitrary materials and whose acoustic reflection coefficients are not equal. The formalism is based on the calculation of the local density of modes using a Green's function approach. The results for the Casimir acoustic pressure are generalized to a sphere/plate configuration using the proximity theorem

id: quant-ph/0405107
title: Finding a maximally correlated state - Simultaneous Schmidt decomposition of bipartite pure states
authors: Tohya Hiroshima, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 5 pages, no figures, REVTEX 4, Some new results on generalized Bell states added; a few typos corrected in v3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 030302(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405107
abstract: We consider a bipartite mixed state of the form, $\rho =\sum_{\alpha, \beta =1}^{l}a_{\alpha \beta} | \psi_{\alpha}> < \psi_ \beta}| $, where $| \psi_{\alpha}>$ are normalized bipartite state vectors, and matrix $(a_{\alpha \beta})$ is positive semidefinite. We provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the state $\rho $ taking the form of maximally correlated states by a local unitary transformation. More precisely, we give a criterion for simultaneous Schmidt decomposability of $| \psi_{\alpha}>$ for $\alpha =1,2,..., l$. Using this criterion, we can judge completely whether or not the state $\rho $ is equivalent to the maximally correlated state, in which the distillable entanglement is given by a simple formula. For generalized Bell states, this criterion is written as a simple algebraic relation between indices of the states. We also discuss the local distinguishability of the generalized Bell states that are simultaneously Schmidt decomposable.

id: quant-ph/0405108
title: Entanglement and Tensor Product Decomposition for Two Fermions
authors: Pawel Caban, Krzysztof Podlaski, Jakub Rembielinski, Kordian A. Smolinski, Zbigniew Walczak
comments: 8pp, published version
journal: J.Phys.A38:L79-L86,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405108
abstract: The problem of the choice of tensor product decomposition in a system of two fermions with the help of Bogoliubov transformations of creation and annihilation operators is discussed. The set of physical states of the composite system is restricted by the superselection rule forbidding the superposition of fermions and bosons. It is shown that the Wootters concurrence is not proper entanglement measure in this case. The explicit formula for the entanglement of formation is found and its dependence on tensor product decompositions of the Hilbert space is discussed. It is shown that the set of separable states is narrower than in two-qubit case. Moreover, there exist states which are separable with respect to all tensor product decompositions of the Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0405109
title: Entanglement and Entropy in a Spin-Boson Quantum Phase Transition
authors: N. Lambert, C. Emary, T. Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Significantly Shortened. Removed concurrence section, multipartite section significantly changed. 14 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 053804 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405109
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of an ensemble of atoms interacting with a single bosonic field mode via the Dicke (superradiance) Hamiltonian. The model exhibits a quantum phase transition and a well-understood thermodynamic limit, allowing the identification of both quantum and semi-classical many-body features in the behaviour of the entanglement. We consider the entanglement between the atoms and the field, an investigation initiated in [N. Lambert, C. Emary and T. Brandes, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, %073602 (2004)]. In the thermodynamic limit, we give exact results for all entanglement partitions and observe a logarithmic divergence of the atom-field entanglement, and discontinuities in the average linear entropy.

id: quant-ph/0405110
title: Information-capacity description of spin-chain correlations
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; typos corrected (to appear in PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032314 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405110
abstract: Information capacities achievable in the multi-parallel-use scenarios are employed to characterize the quantum correlations in unmodulated spin chains. By studying the qubit amplitude damping channel, we calculate the quantum capacity $Q$, the entanglement assisted capacity $C_E$, and the classical capacity $C_1$ of a spin chain with ferromagnetic Heisenberg interactions.

id: quant-ph/0405111
title: Security Trade-offs in Ancilla-Free Quantum Bit Commitment in the Presence of Superselection Rules
authors: D.P. DiVincenzo, J.A. Smolin, B.M. Terhal
comments: 7 pages Latex; v2 has 8 pages and additional references and clarifications, this paper is to appear in the New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 6, 80 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405111
abstract: Security trade-offs have been established for one-way bit commitment in quant-ph/0106019. We study this trade-off in two superselection settings. We show that for an `abelian' superselection rule (exemplified by particle conservation) the standard trade-off between sealing and binding properties still holds. For the non-abelian case (exemplified by angular momentum conservation) the security trade-off can be more subtle, which we illustrate by showing that if the bit-commitment is forced to be ancilla-free an asymptotically secure quantum bit commitment is possible.

id: quant-ph/0405112
title: Erasure Thresholds for Efficient Linear Optics Quantum Computation
authors: Marcus Silva
comments: 96 pages, 23 figures, LaTeX. University of Waterloo M.Sc. Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405112
abstract: Using an error models motivated by the Knill, Laflamme, Milburn proposal for efficient linear optics quantum computing [Nature 409,46--52, 2001], error rate thresholds for erasure errors caused by imperfect photon detectors using a 7 qubit code are derived and verified through simulation. A novel method -- based on a Markov chain description of the erasure correction procedure -- is developed and used to calculate the recursion relation describing the error rate at different encoding levels from which the threshold is derived, matching threshold predictions by Knill, Laflamme and Milburn [quant-ph/0006120, 2000]. In particular, the erasure threshold for gate failure rate in the same order as the measurement failure rate is found to be above 1.78%.

id: quant-ph/0405113
title: Interference of an array of independent Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Zoran Hadzibabic, Sabine Stock, Baptiste Battelier, Vincent Bretin, Jean Dalibard
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 93 (2004) 180403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405113
abstract: We have observed high-contrast matter wave interference between 30 Bose-Einstein condensates with uncorrelated phases. Interference patterns were observed after independent condensates were released from a one-dimensional optical lattice and allowed to expand and overlap. This initially surprising phenomenon is explained with a simple theoretical model which generalizes the analysis of the interference of two independent condensates.

id: quant-ph/0405114
title: Volumes and hyperareas of the spaces of separable and nonseparable qubit-qutrit systems: Initial numerical analyses
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 12 pages, 7 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405114
abstract: Paralleling our recent computationally-intensive work for the case N=4 (quant-ph/0308037), we undertake the task for N=6 of computing to high numerical accuracy, the formulas of Sommers and Zyczkowski (quant-ph/0304041) for the (N^2-1)-dimensional volume and (N^2-2)-dimensional hyperarea of the (separable and nonseparable) N x N density matrices, based on the Bures (minimal monotone) metric. At the same time, we estimate the unknown volumes and hyperareas based on a number of other monotone metrics of interest. Additionally, we estimate -- but with perhaps unavoidably diminished accuracy -- all these volume and hyperarea quantities, when restricted to the ``small'' subset of 6 x 6 density matrices that are separable (classically correlated) in nature. The ratios of separable to separable plus nonseparable volumes, then, yield corresponding estimates of the ``probabilities of separability''. We are particularly interested in exploring the possibility that a number of the various 35-dimensional volumes and 34-dimensional hyperareas, possess exact values -- which we had, in fact, conjectured to be the case for the qubit-qubit systems (N=4), with the ``silver mean'', sqrt{2}-1, appearing to play a fundamental role as regards the separable states.

id: quant-ph/0405115
title: Simulating Hamiltonian dynamics using many-qudit Hamiltonians and local unitary control
authors: Michael J. Bremner, Dave Bacon, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405115
abstract: When can a quantum system of finite dimension be used to simulate another quantum system of finite dimension? What restricts the capacity of one system to simulate another? In this paper we complete the program of studying what simulations can be done with entangling many-qudit Hamiltonians and local unitary control. By entangling we mean that every qudit is coupled to every other qudit, at least indirectly. We demonstrate that the only class of finite-dimensional entangling Hamiltonians that aren't universal for simulation is the class of entangling Hamiltonians on qubits whose Pauli operator expansion contains only terms coupling an odd number of systems, as identified by Bremner et. al. [Phys. Rev. A, 69, 012313 (2004)]. We show that in all other cases entangling many-qudit Hamiltonians are universal for simulation.

id: quant-ph/0405116
title: Complementarity of Entanglement and Interference
authors: A. Hosoya, A. Carlini, S. Okano
comments: Final version, to appear on IJMPC; minor revisions
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 17 (2006), 493-509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405116
abstract: A complementarity relation is shown between the visibility of interference and bipartite entanglement in a two qubit interferometric system when the parameters of the quantum operation change for a given input state. The entanglement measure is a decreasing function of the visibility of interference. The implications for quantum computation are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405117
title: Two-mode entanglement in two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: H. T. Ng, P. T. Leung
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405117
abstract: We study the generation of two-mode entanglement in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a double-well potential. By applying the Holstein-Primakoff transformation, we show that the problem is exactly solvable as long as the number of excitations due to atom-atom interactions remains low. In particular, the condensate constitutes a symmetric Gaussian system, thereby enabling its entanglement of formation to be measured directly by the fluctuations in the quadratures of the two constituent components [Giedke {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 91}, 107901 (2003)]. We discover that significant two-mode squeezing occurs in the condensate if the interspecies interaction is sufficiently strong, which leads to strong entanglement between the two components.

id: quant-ph/0405118
title: Direct measurement and reconstruction of nonclassical features of twin beams generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Ondrej Haderka, Jan Perina Jr, Martin Hamar, Jan Perina
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 033815 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405118
abstract: Correlations in twin beams composed of many photon pairs are studied using an intensified CCD camera. Joint signal-idler photon-number distribution and quantum phase-space quasi-distributions determined from experimental data have nonclassical features.

id: quant-ph/0405119
title: Nonlocality of cluster states of qubits
authors: Valerio Scarani, Antonio Acin, Emmanuel Schenck, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 5 pages; paragraph V.B contains a comparison with Guehne et al., quant-ph/0410059
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405119
abstract: We investigate cluster states of qubits with respect to their non-local properties. We demonstrate that a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) argument holds for any cluster state: more precisely, it holds for any partial, thence mixed, state of a small number of connected qubits (five, in the case of one-dimensional lattices). In addition, we derive a new Bell inequality that is maximally violated by the 4-qubit cluster state and is not violated by the 4-qubit GHZ state.

id: quant-ph/0405120
title: Spatial search and the Dirac equation
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Jeffrey Goldstone
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042312 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405120
abstract: We consider the problem of searching a d-dimensional lattice of N sites for a single marked location. We present a Hamiltonian that solves this problem in time of order sqrt(N) for d>2 and of order sqrt(N) log(N) in the critical dimension d=2. This improves upon the performance of our previous quantum walk search algorithm (which has a critical dimension of d=4), and matches the performance of a corresponding discrete-time quantum walk algorithm. The improvement uses a lattice version of the Dirac Hamiltonian, and thus requires the introduction of spin (or coin) degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0405121
title: Efficiencies for the single mode operation of a quantum optical nonlinear shift gate
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, Phys. Rev. A, accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 013810(2004) (6 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405121
abstract: We investigate the single mode operation of a quantum optical nonlinear \pi phase shift gate implemented by a single two-level atom in one-dimensional free space. Since the single mode property of the input photons at the atom is not preserved in the interaction at the atom, we analyze the effeciency of single mode operation that can still be achieved. We show how the input pulse shape can be optimized to obtain high efficiencies for the nonlinear single mode operation. With this analysis, we obtain an optimal single mode transmittance per photon of 78% for the successful nonliner \pi phase shift operation.

id: quant-ph/0405122
title: A semiclassical derivation of Einstein's rate equations for light-matter interaction
authors: G.J. de Valcarcel, Eugenio Roldan
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Tutorial article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405122
abstract: Einstein's rate equations are derived from the semiclassical Bloch equations describing the interaction of a classical broadband light field with a two--level system.

id: quant-ph/0405123
title: Reflection Symmetries for Multiqubit Density Operators
authors: Claudio Altafini, Timothy F. Havel
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405123
abstract: For multiqubit density operators in a suitable tensorial basis, we show that a number of nonunitary operations used in the detection and synthesis of entanglement are classifiable as reflection symmetries, i.e., orientation changing rotations. While one-qubit reflections correspond to antiunitary symmetries, as is known for example from the partial transposition criterion, reflections on the joint density of two or more qubits are not accounted for by the Wigner Theorem and are well-posed only for sufficiently mixed states. One example of such nonlocal reflections is the unconditional NOT operation on a multiparty density, i.e., an operation yelding another density and such that the sum of the two is the identity operator. This nonphysical operation is admissible only for sufficiently mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0405124
title: Characterizing 3-qubit UPB states: violations of LHV models, preparation via nonlocal unitaries and PPT entangled nonlocal orbits
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405124
abstract: For the 3-qubit UPB state, i.e., the bound entangled state constructed from an Unextendable Product Basis of Bennett et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 82:5385, 1999), we provide a set of violations of Local Hidden Variable (LHV) models based on the particular type of reflection symmetry encoded in this state. The explicit nonlocal unitary operation needed to prepare the state from its reflected separable mixture of pure states is given, as well as a nonlocal one-parameter orbit of states with Positive Partial Transpositions (PPT) which swaps the entanglement between a state and its reflection twice during a period.

id: quant-ph/0405125
title: Models for Equilibrium BEC Superradiance
authors: Joseph V. Pule, Andre Verbeure, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405125
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments with superradiant Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) we consider simple microscopic models describing rigorously the interference of the two cooperative phenomena, BEC and radiation, in thermodynamic equilibrium. Our resuts in equilibrium confirm the presence of the observed superradiant light scattering from BEC: (a) the equilibrium superradiance exists only below a certain transition temperature; (b) there is superradiance and matter-wave (BEC) enhancement due to the coherent coupling between light and matter.

id: quant-ph/0405126
title: Why Should we Interpret Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Clarifications in Sec. 2. To appear in Found. Phys
journal: Foundations of Physics 34 (2004) 1453-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405126
abstract: The development of quantum information theory has renewed interest in the idea that the state vector does not represent the state of a quantum system, but rather the knowledge or information that we may have on the system. I argue that this epistemic view of states appears to solve foundational problems of quantum mechanics only at the price of being essentially incomplete.

id: quant-ph/0405127
title: Quantum information and general relativity
authors: Asher Peres
comments: to be published in Fortschritte der Physik (proceedings of the meeting "Quantum Optics for Quantum Information Processing" Rome, 7-8 May 2004
journal: Fortsch.Phys. 52 (2004) 1052-1055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405127
abstract: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox (1935) is reexamined in the light of Shannon's information theory (1948). The EPR argument did not take into account that the observers' information was localized, like any other physical object. General relativity introduces new problems: there are horizons which act as one-way membranes for the propagation of quantum information, in particular black holes which act like sinks.

id: quant-ph/0405128
title: Quantum Random Walks do not need a Coin Toss
authors: Apoorva Patel, K.S. Raghunathan, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX (v2) Expanded to include relation to quantum walk with a coin. Connection with Dirac equation pointed out. Version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A71 (2005) 032347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405128
abstract: Classical randomized algorithms use a coin toss instruction to explore different evolutionary branches of a problem. Quantum algorithms, on the other hand, can explore multiple evolutionary branches by mere superposition of states. Discrete quantum random walks, studied in the literature, have nonetheless used both superposition and a quantum coin toss instruction. This is not necessary, and a discrete quantum random walk without a quantum coin toss instruction is defined and analyzed here. Our construction eliminates quantum entanglement from the algorithm, and the results match those obtained with a quantum coin toss instruction.

id: quant-ph/0405129
title: Inconsistencies of the Adiabatic Theorem and the Berry Phase
authors: A. K. Pati, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: Latex, 4 + pages, No figures, Resolution of the MS inconsistency given inquant-ph/0404022 and much more, This version now expanded to 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405129
abstract: The adiabatic theorem states that if we prepare a quantum system in one of the instantaneous eigenstates then the quantum number is an adiabatic invariant and the state at a later time is equivalent to the instantaneous eigenstate at that time apart from phase factors. Recently, Marzlin and Sanders have pointed out that this could lead to apparent violation of unitarity. We resolve the Marzlin-Sanders inconsistency within the quantum adiabatic theorem. Yet, our resolution points to another inconsistency, namely, that the cyclic as well as non-cyclic adiabatic Berry phases may vanish under strict adiabatic condition. We resolve this inconsistency and develop an unitary operator decomposition method to argue for the validity of the adiabatic approximation.

id: quant-ph/0405130
title: Entanglement of eta-pairing state with off-diagonal long-range order
authors: Heng Fan, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: J.Phys.A38, (2005) 5285.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405130
abstract: Off-diagonal long-range order (ODLRO) is a quantum phenomenon not describable in classical mechanical terms. It is believed to be one characteristic of superconductivity. The quantum state constructed by eta-pairing which demonstrates ODLRO is an eigenstate of the three-dimensional Hubbard model. Entanglement is a key concept of the quantum information processing and has no classical counterpart. We study the entanglement property of eta-pairing quantum state. The concurrence is a well-known measure of quantum entanglement. We show that the concurrence of entanglement between one-site and the rest sites is exactly the correlation function of the ODLRO for the eta-pairing state in the thermodynamic limit. So, when the eta-pairing state is entangled, it demonstrates ODLRO and is thus in superconducting phase, if it is a separable state, there is no ODLRO. In the thermodynamic limit, the entanglement between M-site and other sites of the eta-pairing state does not vanish. Other types of ODLRO of eta-pairing state are presented. We show that the behavior of the ODLRO correlation functions is equivalent to that of the entanglement of the eta-pairing state. The scaling of the entropy of the entanglement for the eta-pairing state is studied.

id: quant-ph/0405131
title: On-demand single-photon state generation via nonlinear absorption
authors: Tao Hong, Michael W. Jack, Makoto Yamashita
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in PRA. To be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405131
abstract: We propose a method for producing on-demand single-photon states based on collision-induced exchanges of photons and unbalanced linear absorption between two single-mode light fields. These two effects result in an effective nonlinear absorption of photons in one of the modes, which can lead to single photon states. A quantum nonlinear attenuator based on such a mechanism can absorb photons in a normal input light pulse and terminate the absorption at a single-photon state. Because the output light pulses containing single photons preserve the properties of the input pulses, we expect this method to be a means for building a highly controllable single photon source.

id: quant-ph/0405132
title: Spatial weak-light solitons in an electro-magnetically induced nonlinear waveguide
authors: Tao Hong
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 183901 (2003)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405132
abstract: We show that a weak probe light beam can form spatial solitons in an electro-magnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium composed of four-level atoms and a coupling light field. We find that the coupling light beam can induce a highly controllable nonlinear waveguide and exert very strong effects on the dynamical behavior of the solitons. Hence, in the EIT medium, it is not only possible to produce spatial solitons at very low light intensities but also simultaneously control these solitons by using the coupling-light-induced nonlinear waveguide.

id: quant-ph/0405133
title: A simple entanglement measure for multipartite pure states
authors: Feng Pan, Dan Liu, Guoying Lu, J. P. Draayer
comments: 8 pages LaTeX
journal: Int. J. Thoer. Phys. 43 (2004) 1241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405133
abstract: A simple entanglement measure for multipartite pure states is formulated based on the partial entropy of a series of reduced density matrices. Use of the proposed new measure to distinguish disentangled, partially entangled, and maximally entangled multipartite pure states is illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0405134
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computation with cluster states
authors: Michael A. Nielsen, Christopher M. Dawson
comments: 31 pages, 54 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405134
abstract: The one-way quantum computing model introduced by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86 (22), 5188-5191 (2001)] shows that it is possible to quantum compute using only a fixed entangled resource known as a cluster state, and adaptive single-qubit measurements. This model is the basis for several practical proposals for quantum computation, including a promising proposal for optical quantum computation based on cluster states [M. A. Nielsen, arXiv:quant-ph/0402005, accepted to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett.]. A significant open question is whether such proposals are scalable in the presence of physically realistic noise. In this paper we prove two threshold theorems which show that scalable fault-tolerant quantum computation may be achieved in implementations based on cluster states, provided the noise in the implementations is below some constant threshold value. Our first threshold theorem applies to a class of implementations in which entangling gates are applied deterministically, but with a small amount of noise. We expect this threshold to be applicable in a wide variety of physical systems. Our second threshold theorem is specifically adapted to proposals such as the optical cluster-state proposal, in which non-deterministic entangling gates are used. A critical technical component of our proofs is two powerful theorems which relate the properties of noisy unitary operations restricted to act on a subspace of state space to extensions of those operations acting on the entire state space.

id: quant-ph/0405135
title: On compatibility and improvement of different quantum state assignments
authors: F. Herbut
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 1-8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405135
abstract: When Alice and Bob have different quantum knowledges or state assignments (density operators) for one and the same specific individual system, then the problems of compatibility and pooling arise. The so-called first Brun-Finkelstein-Mermin (BFM) condition for compatibility is reobtained in terms of possessed or sharp (i. e., probability one) properties. The second BFM condition is shown to be generally invalid in an infinite-dimensional state space. An argument leading to a procedure of improvement of one state assifnment on account of the other and vice versa is presented.

id: quant-ph/0405136
title: Coherent manipulation of motional states of trapped ions
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Le-Man Kuang, Ke-Lin Gao
comments: 20 pages,one figure
journal: published in J. Opt.B: Quantum Semiclass.Opt.6 (2004)269-275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405136
abstract: The beam splitter and phase shifter, which are the key elements in the experiments of light interference, are realized in the motion of trapped ions. Some applications, such as the creation of quantum motional states and the realization of Mach-Zehnder interferometer, are illustrated. Several detection methods of motional states used in the interferometer are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405137
title: Squeezing in the audio gravitational wave detection band
authors: K. McKenzie, N. Grosse, W. P. Bowen, S. E. Whitcomb, M. B. Gray, D. E. McClelland, P. K. Lam
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 161105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405137
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of broad-band continuous-wave optical squeezing down to 200Hz using a below threshold optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The squeezed state phase was controlled using a noise locking technique. We show that low frequency noise sources, such as seed noise, pump noise and detuning fluctuations, present in optical parametric amplifiers have negligible effect on squeezing produced by a below threshold OPO. This low frequency squeezing is ideal for improving the sensitivity of audio frequency measuring devices such as gravitational wave detectors.

id: quant-ph/0405138
title: Generation of photon-number entangled soliton pairs through interactions
authors: R.-K. Lee, Y. Lai, B. A. Malomed
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 71, 013816 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405138
abstract: Two new simple schemes for generating macroscopic (many-photon) continuous-variable entangled states by means of continuous interactions (rather than collisions) between solitons in optical fibers are proposed. First, quantum fluctuations around two time-separated single-component temporal solitons are considered. Almost perfect correlation between the photon-number fluctuations can be achieved after propagating a certain distance, with a suitable initial separation between the solitons. The photon-number correlation can also be achieved in a pair of vectorial solitons with two polarization components. In the latter case, the photon-number-entangled pulses can be easily separated by a polarization beam splitter. These results offer novel possibilities to produce entangled sources for quantum communication and computation.

id: quant-ph/0405139
title: Photon statistics without counting photons
authors: Andrea R. Rossi, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G.A. Paris
comments: references added, new figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol 70, 055801 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405139
abstract: We show how to obtain the photon distribution of a single-mode field using only avalanche photodetectors. The method is based on measuring the field at different quantum efficiencies and then inferring the photon distribution by maximum-likelihood estimation. The convergence of the method and its robustness against fluctuations are illustrated by means of numerically simulated experiments.

id: quant-ph/0405140
title: Lindblad and non--Lindblad type dynamics of a quantum Brownian particle
authors: S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, F. Intravaia, F. Petruccione, A. Messina
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, v2:added discussion on Wigner function, squeezing, and Mandel parameter
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 032113 (2004) (13 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405140
abstract: The dynamics of a typical open quantum system, namely a quantum Brownian particle in a harmonic potential, is studied focussing on its non-Markovian regime. Both an analytic approach and a stochastic wave function approach are used to describe the exact time evolution of the system. The border between two very different dynamical regimes, the Lindblad and non-Lindblad regimes, is identified and the relevant physical variables governing the passage from one regime to the other are singled out. The non-Markovian short time dynamics is studied in detail by looking at the mean energy, the squeezing, the Mandel parameter and the Wigner function of the system.

id: quant-ph/0405141
title: Comment on Photon Exchange Interactions
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 054301 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405141
abstract: We previously suggested that photon exchange interactions could be used to produce nonlinear effects at the two-photon level, and similar effects have been experimentally observed by Resch et al. (quant-ph/0306198). Here we note that photon exchange interactions are not useful for quantum information processing because they require the presence of substantial photon loss. This dependence on loss is somewhat analogous to the postselection required in the linear optics approach to quantum computing suggested by Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn [Nature 409, 46 (2001)].

id: quant-ph/0405142
title: Entropy, entanglement, and area: analytical results for harmonic lattice systems
authors: M.B. Plenio, J. Eisert, J. Dreissig, M. Cramer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 060503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405142
abstract: We revisit the question of the relation between entanglement, entropy, and area for harmonic lattice Hamiltonians corresponding to discrete versions of real free Klein-Gordon fields. For the ground state of the d-dimensional cubic harmonic lattice we establish a strict relationship between the surface area of a distinguished hypercube and the degree of entanglement between the hypercube and the rest of the lattice analytically, without resorting to numerical means. We outline extensions of these results to longer ranged interactions, finite temperatures and for classical correlations in classical harmonic lattice systems. These findings further suggest that the tools of quantum information science may help in establishing results in quantum field theory that were previously less accessible.

id: quant-ph/0405143
title: Spin Microscope Based on Optically Detected Magnetic Resonance
authors: Boris M. Chernobrod, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405143
abstract: We propose a scanning magnetic microscope which has a photoluminescence nanoprobe implanted in the tip of an AFM or STM, or NSOM, and exhibits optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR). The proposed spin microscope has nanoscale lateral resolution and the single spin sensitivity for AFM and STM.

id: quant-ph/0405144
title: Improving the sensitivity of FM spectroscopy using nano-mechanical cantilevers
authors: Boris M. Chernobrod, Gennady P. Berman, Peter W. Milonni
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405144
abstract: It is suggested that nano-mechanical cantilevers can be employed as high-Q filters to circumvent laser noise limitations on the sensitivity of frequency modulation spectroscopy. In this approach a cantilever is actuated by the radiation pressure of the amplitude modulated light that emerges from an absorber. Numerical estimates indicate that laser intensity noise will not prevent a cantilever from operating in the thermal noise limit, where the high Q's of cantilevers are most advantageous.

id: quant-ph/0405145
title: Computing the wavefunction from trajectories: particle and wave pictures in quantum mechanics and their relation
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 26 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 315, 503-529 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405145
abstract: We discuss the particle method in quantum mechanics which provides an exact scheme to calculate the time-dependent wavefunction from a single-valued continuum of trajectories where two spacetime points are linked by at most a single orbit. A natural language for the theory is offered by the hydrodynamic analogy, in which wave mechanics corresponds to the Eulerian picture and the particle theory to the Lagrangian picture. The Lagrangian model for the quantum fluid may be developed from a variational principle. The Euler-Lagrange equations imply a fourth-order nonlinear partial differential equation to calculate the trajectories of the fluid particles as functions of their initial coordinates using as input the initial wavefunction. The admissible solutions are those consistent with quasi-potential flow. The effect of the superposition principle is represented via a nonclassical force on each particle. The wavefunction is computed via the standard map between the Lagrangian coordinates and the Eulerian fields, which provides the analogue in this model of Huygens principle in wave mechanics. The method is illustrated by calculating the time-dependence of a free Gaussian wavefunction. The Eulerian and Lagrangian pictures are complementary descriptions of a quantum process in that they have associated Hamiltonian formulations that are connected by a canonical transformation. The de Broglie-Bohm interpretation, which employs the same set of trajectories, should not be conflated with the Lagrangian version of the hydrodynamic interpretation. The theory implies that the mathematical results of the de Broglie-Bohm model may be regarded as statements about quantum mechanics itself rather than about its interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0405146
title: Fast quantum algorithm for numerical gradient estimation
authors: Stephen P. Jordan
comments: additional references and minor clarifications and corrections to version 1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 050501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405146
abstract: Given a blackbox for f, a smooth real scalar function of d real variables, one wants to estimate the gradient of f at a given point with n bits of precision. On a classical computer this requires a minimum of d+1 blackbox queries, whereas on a quantum computer it requires only one query regardless of d. The number of bits of precision to which f must be evaluated matches the classical requirement in the limit of large n.

id: quant-ph/0405147
title: Qubit Decoherence and Non-Markovian Dynamics at Low Temperatures via an Effective Spin-Boson Model
authors: K. Shiokawa, B. L. Hu
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405147
abstract: Quantum Brownian oscillator model (QBM), in the Fock-space representation, can be viewed as a multi-level spin-boson model. At sufficiently low temperature, the oscillator degrees of freedom are dynamically reduced to the lowest two levels and the system behaves effectively as a two-level (E2L) spin-boson model (SBM) in this limit. We discuss the physical mechanism of level reduction and analyze the behavior of E2L-SBM from the QBM solutions. The availability of close solutions for the QBM enables us to study the non-Markovian features of decoherence and leakage in a SBM in the non-perturbative regime (e.g. without invoking the Born approximation) in better details than before. Our result captures very well the characteristic non-Markovian short time low temperature behavior common in many models.

id: quant-ph/0405148
title: Quantum squeezing of optical dissipative structures
authors: Isabel Perez-Arjona, Eugenio Roldan, German J. de Valcarcel
comments: 4 pages and a half, 1 fugure. Version to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 74, 247-253 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405148
abstract: We show that any optical dissipative structure supported by degenerate optical parametric oscillators contains a special transverse mode that is free from quantum fluctuations when measured in a balanced homodyne detection experiment. The phenomenon is not critical as it is independent of the system parameters and, in particular, of the existence of bifurcations. This result is a consequence of the spatial symmetry breaking introduced by the dissipative structure. Effects that could degrade the squeezing level are considered.

id: quant-ph/0405149
title: Bounds on localisable information via semidefinite programming
authors: Barbara Synak, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki
comments: 14 pages, revtex
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 082107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405149
abstract: We investigate so-called localisable information of bipartite states and a parallel notion of information deficit. Localisable information is defined as the amount of information that can be concentrated by means of classical communication and local operations where only maximally mixed states can be added for free. The information deficit is defined as difference between total information contents of the state and localisable information. We consider a larger class of operations: the so called PPT operations, which in addition preserve maximally mixed state (PPT-PMM operations). We formulate the related optimization problem as sedmidefnite program with suitable constraints. We then provide bound for fidelity of transition of a given state into product pure state on Hilbert space of dimension d. This allows to obtain general upper bound for localisable information (and also for information deficit). We calculated the bounds exactly for Werner states and isotropic states in any dimension. Surprisingly it turns out that related bounds for information deficit are equal to relative entropy of entanglement (in the case of Werner states - regularized one). We compare the upper bounds with lower bounds based on simple protocol of localisation of information.

id: quant-ph/0405150
title: Analytic Representation of The Square-Root Operator
authors: T. L. Gill, W. W. Zachary
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405150
abstract: In this paper, we use the theory of fractional powers of linear operators to construct a general (analytic) representation theory for the square-root energy operator of relativistic quantum theory, which is valid for all values of the spin. We focus on the spin 1/2 case, considering a few simple yet solvable and physically interesting cases, in order to understand how to interpret the operator. Our general representation is uniquely determined by the Green's function for the corresponding Schrodinger equation. We find that, in general, the operator has a representation as a nonlocal composite of (at least) three singularities. In the standard interpretation, the particle component has two negative parts and one (hard core) positive part, while the antiparticle component has two positive parts and one (hard core) negative part. This effect is confined within a Compton wavelength such that, at the point of singularity, they cancel each other providing a finite result. Furthermore, the operator looks like the identity outside a few Compton wavelengths (cutoff). To our knowledge, this is the first example of a physically relevant operator with these properties.

id: quant-ph/0405151
title: Analytic Representation of The Dirac Equation
authors: T. L. Gill, W. W. Zachary
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405151
abstract: In this paper we construct an analytical separation (diagonalization) of the full (minimal coupling) Dirac equation into particle and antiparticle components. The diagonalization is analytic in that it is achieved without transforming the wave functions, as is done by the Foldy-Wouthuysen method, and reveals the nonlocal time behavior of the particle-antiparticle relationship. We interpret the zitterbewegung and the result that a velocity measurement (of a Dirac particle) at any instant in time is, as reflections of the fact that the Dirac equation makes a spatially extended particle appear as a point in the present by forcing it to oscillate between the past and future at speed c. From this we infer that, although the form of the Dirac equation serves to make space and time appear on an equal footing mathematically, it is clear that they are still not on an equal footing from a physical point of view. On the other hand, the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation, which connects the Dirac and square root operator, is unitary. Reflection on these results suggests that a more refined notion (than that of unitary equivalence) may be required for physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0405152
title: Rotating frames and gauge invariance in three-dimensional many-body quantum systems
authors: Antonio O. Bouzas, Jose Mendez Gamboa
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX2e, AmsLaTeX
journal: J.Phys.A37:6773-6806,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405152
abstract: We study the quantization of many-body systems in three dimensions in rotating coordinate frames using a gauge invariant formulation of the dynamics. We consider reference frames defined by linear gauge conditions, and discuss their Gribov ambiguities and commutator algebra. We construct the momentum operators, inner-product and Hamiltonian in those gauges, for systems with and without translation invariance. The analogy with the quantization of non-Abelian Yang-Mills theories in non-covariant gauges is emphasized. Our results are applied to quasi-rigid systems in the Eckart frame.

id: quant-ph/0405153
title: Generalized Pseudopotentials for Higher Partial Wave Scattering
authors: Rene Stock, Andrew Silberfarb, Eric L. Bolda, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: RevTeX 4 pages, 1 figure, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 023202 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405153
abstract: We derive a generalized zero-range pseudopotential applicable to all partial wave solutions to the Schroedinger equation based on a delta-shell potential in the limit that the shell radius approaches zero. This properly models all higher order multipole moments not accounted for with a monopolar delta function at the origin, as used in the familiar Fermi pseudopotential for s-wave scattering. By making the strength of the potential energy dependent, we derive self-consistent solutions for the entire energy spectrum of the realistic potential. We apply this to study two particles in an isotropic harmonic trap, interacting through a central potential, and derive analytic expressions for the energy eigenstates and eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0405154
title: Conveyor belt clock synchronization
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 043808 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405154
abstract: A protocol for synchronizing distant clocks is proposed that does not rely on the arrival times of the signals which are exchanged, and an optical implementation based on coherent-state pulses is described. This protocol is not limited by any dispersion that may be present in the propagation medium through which the light signals are exchanged. Possible improvements deriving from the use of quantum-mechanical effects are also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0405155
title: Proposed experiment on the continuity of quantum entanglement
authors: Masanori Sato
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annales de la Foundation Louis de Broglie, 30, 121, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405155
abstract: We propose experiments on quantum entanglement for investigating the Einstein Podolsky Rosen (EPR) problem with the polarization directions of photons. These experiments are performed to investigate whether the defined polarization directions in an entangled state are teleported between entangled photons. EPR-type sequential experiments are performed using a twin-photon beam and two pairs of linear polarization analyzers under the cross-Nicol condition (i.e., orthogonal to each other). If the third filter whose polarization angle is 45 degrees is set between the first cross-Nicol filters, the beam intensity is changed from 0 to 12.5 %, and at the second cross-Nicol filters, the beam intensity is changed from 0 to 25 %. In this experiment, we predict that the "continuity of quantum entanglement" under a pure Hamiltonian evolution is detected.

id: quant-ph/0405156
title: Weak Measurement of the Arrival Times of Single Photons and Pairs of Entangled Photons
authors: S. E. Ahnert, M. C. Payne
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 042103 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405156
abstract: In this paper we propose a setup for the weak measurement of photon arrival time. It is found that the weak values of this arrival time can lie far away from the expectation value, and in principle also in regions forbidden by special relativity. We discuss in brief the implications of these results as well as their reconciliation with the principle of causality. Furthermore, an analysis of the weak arrival times of a pair of photons in a Bell state shows that these weak arrival times are correlated.

id: quant-ph/0405157
title: Resource-efficient linear optical quantum computation
authors: Daniel E. Browne, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures. In this new version we have corrected typos and minor errors, emphasised the scheme's robustness against phase-instability and improved readability by restructuring the introduction
journal: Physical Review Letters 95, 010501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405157
abstract: We introduce a scheme for linear optics quantum computation, that makes no use of teleported gates, and requires stable interferometry over only the coherence length of the photons. We achieve a much greater degree of efficiency and a simpler implementation than previous proposals. We follow the "cluster state" measurement based quantum computational approach, and show how cluster states may be efficiently generated from pairs of maximally polarization entangled photons using linear optical elements. We demonstrate the universality and usefulness of generic parity measurements, as well as introducing the use of redundant encoding of qubits to enable utilization of destructive measurements - both features of use in a more general context.

id: quant-ph/0405158
title: Comment on the paper "Semiclassical Dirac Theory of Tunnel Ionization" (by N.Milosevic, V.P.Krainov, and T.Brabec)
authors: B.M.Karnakov, V.D.Mur, V.S.Popov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405158
abstract: Some remarks are made on the articles by N.Milosevic, V.P.Krainov, T.Brabec and our papers are about problem of semiclassical theory of tunnel ionization.

id: quant-ph/0405159
title: Quantum Logic and Non-Commutative Geometry
authors: P.A. Marchetti, R. Rubele
comments: 16 pages, to be published in the International Journal of Theoretical Physics, without Appendix
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 46 (2007) 49-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405159
abstract: We propose a general scheme for the "logic" of elementary propositions of physical systems, encompassing both classical and quantum cases, in the framework given by Non Commutative Geometry. It involves Baire*-algebras, the non-commutative version of measurable functions, arising as envelope of the C*-algebras identifying the topology of the (non-commutative) phase space. We outline some consequences of this proposal in different physical systems. This approach in particular avoids some problematic features appearing in the definition of the state of "initial conditions" in the standard W*-algebraic approach to classical systems.

id: quant-ph/0405160
title: Comment on "Universal Thermal Radiation Drag on Neutral Objects"
authors: P. A. Maia Neto, C. Farina
comments: 1 page, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405160
abstract: In a recent letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 220801 (2003)], V. Mkrtchian and co-workers calculated the radiation pressure force on a moving body, assuming the electromagnetic field to be at temperature $T,$ and the velocity to be much smaller than $c.$ They considered both dielectrics and conductors, and related the effect to Casimir dissipative forces. Here we claim that their approach may only apply in the Rayleigh-Ganz scattering regime, which corresponds to very small particles and/or electromagnetically rarefied media. Moreover, we argue that their interpretation in terms of the Casimir effect is misleading, since vacuum fluctuations do not contribute in the (implicitly assumed) regime of uniform motion.

id: quant-ph/0405161
title: Probabilities from Entanglement, Born's Rule from Envariance
authors: W. H. Zurek
comments: Figure and an appendix (Born's rule for continuous spectra) added. Presentation improved. (Comments still welcome...)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405161
abstract: I show how probabilities arise in quantum physics by exploring implications of {\it environment - assisted invariance} or {\it envariance}, a recently discovered symmetry exhibited by entangled quantum systems. Envariance of perfectly entangled ``Bell-like'' states can be used to rigorously justify complete ignorance of the observer about the outcome of any measurement on either of the members of the entangled pair. For more general states, envariance leads to Born's rule, $p_k \propto |\psi_k|^2$ for the outcomes associated with Schmidt states. Probabilities derived in this manner are an objective reflection of the underlying state of the system -- they represent experimentally verifiable symmetries, and not just a subjective ``state of knowledge'' of the observer. Envariance - based approach is compared with and found superior to pre-quantum definitions of probability including the {\it standard definition} based on the `principle of indifference' due to Laplace, and the {\it relative frequency approach} advocated by von Mises. Implications of envariance for the interpretation of quantum theory go beyond the derivation of Born's rule: Envariance is enough to establish dynamical independence of preferred branches of the evolving state vector of the composite system, and, thus, to arrive at the {\it environment - induced superselection (einselection) of pointer states}, that was usually derived by an appeal to decoherence. Envariant origin of Born's rule for probabilities sheds a new light on the relation between ignorance (and hence, information) and the nature of quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0405162
title: Global entanglement and quantum criticality in spin chains
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Dyutiman Das, Swagatam Mukhopadyay, Smitha Vishveshwara, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 060305(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405162
abstract: Entanglement in quantum XY spin chains of arbitrary length is investigated via a recently-developed global measure suitable for generic quantum many-body systems. The entanglement surface is determined over the phase diagram, and found to exhibit structure richer than expected. Near the critical line, the entanglement is peaked (albeit analytically), consistent with the notion that entanglement--the non-factorization of wave functions--reflects quantum correlations. Singularity does, however, accompany the critical line, as revealed by the divergence of the field-derivative of the entanglement along the line. The form of this singularity is dictated by the universality class controlling the quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0405163
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a cavity wall under the influence of real conditions
authors: J. F. Babb, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables; minor corrections. Phys. Rev. A, to appear
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405163
abstract: The Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a metal wall is investigated under the influence of real conditions including the dynamic polarizability of the atom, finite conductivity of the wall metal and nonzero temperature of the system. Both analytical and numerical results for the free energy and force are obtained over a wide range of the atom-wall distances. Numerical computations are performed for an Au wall and metastable He${}^{\ast}$, Na and Cs atoms. For the He${}^{\ast}$ atom we demonstrate, as an illustration, that at short separations of about the Au plasma wavelength at room temperature the free energy deviates up to 35% and the force up to 57% from the classical Casimir-Polder result. Accordingly, such large deviations should be taken into account in precision experiments on atom-wall interactions. The combined account of different corrections to the Casimir-Polder interaction leads to the conclusion that at short separations the corrections due to the dynamic polarizability of an atom play a more important role than -- and suppress -- the corrections due to the nonideality of the metal wall. By the comparison of the exact atomic polarizabilities with those in the framework of the single oscillator model, it is shown that the obtained asymptotic expressions enable calculation of the free energy and force for the atom-wall interaction under real conditions with a precision of one percent.

id: quant-ph/0405164
title: Generation and detection of bound entanglement
authors: Philipp Hyllus, Carolina Moura Alves, Dagmar Bruss, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032316 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405164
abstract: We propose a method for the experimental generation of two different families of bound entangled states of three qubits. Our method is based on the explicit construction of a quantum network that produces a purification of the desired state. We also suggest a route for the experimental detection of bound entanglement, by employing a witness operator plus a test of the positivity of the partial transposes.

id: quant-ph/0405165
title: Detecting Genuine Multipartite Entanglement with Two Local Measurements
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried Guehne
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure, revtex4; changes before publication in PRL; discussion about Mermin's inequality added in Ref. 22
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 060501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405165
abstract: We present entanglement witness operators for detecting genuine multipartite entanglement. These witnesses are robust against noise and require only two local measurement settings when used in an experiment, independent from the number of qubits. This allows detection of entanglement for an increasing number of parties without a corresponding increase in effort. The witnesses presented detect states close to GHZ, cluster and graph states. Connections to Bell inequalities are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0405166
title: On separable states for composite systems of distinguishable fermions
authors: Hajime Moriya
comments: 13 pages, no figure. revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405166
abstract: We study characterization of separable (classically correlated) states for composite systems of distinguishable fermions that are represented as CAR algebras.

id: quant-ph/0405167
title: Byzantine Agreement with Two Quantum Key Distribution Setups
authors: S. Iblisdir, N. Gisin
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 034306 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405167
abstract: It is pointed out that two separated quantum channels and three classical authenticated channels are sufficient resources to achieve detectable broadcast.

id: quant-ph/0405168
title: Rethinking Renormalization for Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Hilary A. Carteret
comments: 23 pages RevTeX, with 6 figures in encapsulated PostScript. Feedback welcome. (If the paper prints with a vertical displacement, there's a \voffset command in the topmatter that will fix this.) v2: improvements in the renormalization procedure and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405168
abstract: This is a conceptual paper that re-examines the principles underlying the application of renormalization theory to quantum phase transitions in the light of quantum information theory. We start by describing the intuitive argument known as the Kadanoff ``block-spin'' construction for spins fixed on a lattice and then outline some subsequent ideas by Wilson and White. We then reconstruct these concepts for quantum phase transitions from first principles. This new perspective offers some very natural explanations for some features of renormalization theory that had previously seemed rather mysterious, even contrived. It also offers some suggestions as to how we might modify renormalization methods to make them more successful. We then discuss some possible order parameters and a class of functionals that are analogues of the correlation length in such systems.

id: quant-ph/0405169
title: Qutrit state engineering with biphotons
authors: Yu. Bogdanov, M. Chekhova, S. Kulik, G. Maslennikov, C.H. Oh, M.K. Tey, A. Zhukov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett., 93, 230503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405169
abstract: The novel experimental realization of three-level optical quantum systems is presented. We use the polarization state of biphotons to generate a specific sequence of states that are used in the extended version of BB84 protocol. We experimentally verify the orthogonality of the basis states and demonstrate the ability to easily switch between them. The tomography procedure is employed to reconstruct the density matrices of generated states.

id: quant-ph/0405170
title: Experimental Realization of an NMR Quantum Switch
authors: I.M. Tsai, S.Y. Kuo, S.L. Huang, Y.C. Lin, T.T. Chen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, LaTex, IEEEims.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405170
abstract: In this paper, we report an experimental realization of quantum switch using nuclear spins and magnetic resonant pulses. The nuclear spins of H and C in carbon-13 labelled chloroform are used to carry the information, then nuclear magnetic resonance pulses are applied to perform either bypass or cross function to achieve the switching. Compared with a traditional space or time domain switch, this switching architecture is much more scalable, therefore a high throughput switching device can be built simply by increasing the number of I/O ports. In addition, it can be used not only as a device to switch classical information, but also a building block of quantum information networks.

id: quant-ph/0405171
title: Characteristics of the Limit Cycle of a Reciprocating Quantum Heat Engine
authors: Tova Feldmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 29 pages and six figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405171
abstract: When a reciprocating heat engine is started it eventually settles to a stable mode of operation. The approach of a first principle quantum heat engine toward this stable limit cycle is studied. The engine is based on a working medium consisting of an ensemble of quantum systems composed of two coupled spins. A four stroke cycle of operation is studied, with two {\em isochore} branches where heat is transferred from the hot/cold baths and two {\em adiabats} where work is exchanged. The dynamics is generated by a completely positive map. It has been shown that the performance of this model resembles an engine with intrinsic friction. The quantum conditional entropy is employed to prove the monotonic approach to a limit cycle. Other convex measures, such as the quantum distance display the same monotonic approach. The equations of motion of the engine are solved for the different branches and are combined to a global propagator that relates the state of the engine in the beginning of the cycle to the state after one period of operation of the cycle. The eigenvalues of the propagator define the rate of relaxation toward the limit cycle. A longitudinal and transverse mode of approach to the limit cycle is identified. The entropy balance is used to explore the necessary conditions which lead to a stable limit cycle. The phenomena of friction can be identified with a zero change in the von Neumann entropy of the working medium.

id: quant-ph/0405172
title: Scattering in highly singular potentials
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405172
abstract: Recently, in Quantum Field theory, there has been an interest in scattering in highly singular potentials. Here, solutions to the stationary Schroedinger equation are presented when the potential is a multiple of an arbitrary positive power of the Dirac delta distribution. The one dimensional, and the spherically symmetric three dimensional cases are dealt with.

id: quant-ph/0405173
title: Macroscopic entanglement of many-magnon states
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Ayumu Sugita, Akira Shimizu
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures. The manuscript has been shortened and typos have been fixed. Data points of figures have been made larger in order to make them clearly visible
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032317 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405173
abstract: We study macroscopic entanglement of various pure states of a one-dimensional N-spin system with N>>1. Here, a quantum state is said to be macroscopically entangled if it is a superposition of macroscopically distinct states. To judge whether such superposition is hidden in a general state, we use an essentially unique index p: A pure state is macroscopically entangled if p=2, whereas it may be entangled but not macroscopically if p<2. This index is directly related to the stability of the state. We calculate the index p for various states in which magnons are excited with various densities and wavenumbers. We find macroscopically entangled states (p=2) as well as states with p=1. The former states are unstable in the sense that they are unstable against some local measurements. On the other hand, the latter states are stable in the senses that they are stable against local measurements and that their decoherence rates never exceed O(N) in any weak classical noises. For comparison, we also calculate the von Neumann entropy S(N) of a subsystem composed of N/2 spins as a measure of bipartite entanglement. We find that S(N) of some states with p=1 is of the same order of magnitude as the maximum value N/2. On the other hand, S(N) of the macroscopically entangled states with p=2 is as small as O(log N)<< N/2. Therefore, larger S(N) does not mean more instability. We also point out that these results are analogous to those for interacting many bosons. Furthermore, the origin of the huge entanglement, as measured either by p or S(N), is discussed to be due to the spatial propagation of magnons.

id: quant-ph/0405174
title: Reversible quantum cellular automata
authors: B. Schumacher, R.F. Werner
comments: 20 pages, revtex4, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405174
abstract: We define quantum cellular automata as infinite quantum lattice systems with discrete time dynamics, such that the time step commutes with lattice translations and has strictly finite propagation speed. In contrast to earlier definitions this allows us to give an explicit characterization of all local rules generating such automata. The same local rules also generate the global time step for automata with periodic boundary conditions. Our main structure theorem asserts that any quantum cellular automaton is structurally reversible, i.e., that it can be obtained by applying two blockwise unitary operations in a generalized Margolus partitioning scheme. This implies that, in contrast to the classical case, the inverse of a nearest neighbor quantum cellular automaton is again a nearest neighbor automaton. We present several construction methods for quantum cellular automata, based on unitaries commuting with their translates, on the quantization of (arbitrary) reversible classical cellular automata, on quantum circuits, and on Clifford transformations with respect to a description of the single cells by finite Weyl systems. Moreover, we indicate how quantum random walks can be considered as special cases of cellular automata, namely by restricting a quantum lattice gas automaton with local particle number conservation to the single particle sector.

id: quant-ph/0405175
title: Entanglement Witness Derived from NMR Superdense Coding
authors: Robabeh Rahimi, Kazuyuki Takeda, Masanao Ozawa, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405175
abstract: We show that it is possible to transfer two-bit information via encoding a single qubit in a conventional nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiment with two very weakly polarized nuclear spins. Nevertheless, the experiment can not be regarded as a demonstration of superdense coding by means of NMR because it is based on the large number of molecules being involved in the ensemble state rather than the entanglement of the NMR states. Following the discussions, an entanglement witness, particularly applicable for NMR, is introduced based on separate and simultaneous measurement of the individual nuclear spin magnetizations.

id: quant-ph/0405176
title: The Evolution Operator of The Three Atoms Tavis-Cummings Model
authors: Cai Jinfang
comments: 3 pages Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405176
abstract: The explicit form of evolution operator of the three atoms Tavis-Cummings Model is given.

id: quant-ph/0405177
title: Secure Direct Communication with a Quantum One-Time-Pad
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and one figure
journal: Physical Review A 69, 052319 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405177
abstract: Quantum secure direct communication is the direct communication of secret messages without first producing a shared secret key. It maybe used in some urgent circumstances. Here we propose a quantum secure direct communication protocol using single photons. The protocol uses batches of single photons prepared randomly in one of four different states. These single photons serve as a one-time-pad which are used directly to encode the secret messages in one communication process. We also show that it is unconditionally secure. The protocol is feasible with present-day technique.

id: quant-ph/0405178
title: Topological Test Spaces
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 12 pp., LaTeX 2e. To appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405178
abstract: A test space is the set of outcome-sets associated with a collection of experiments. This notion provides a simple mathematical framework for the study of probabilistic theories -- notably, quantum mechanics -- in which one is faced with incommensurable random quantities. In the case of quantum mechanics, the relevant test space, the set of orthonormal bases of a Hilbert space, carries significant topological structure. This paper inaugurates a general study of topological test spaces. Among other things, we show that any topological test space with a compact space of outcomes is of finite rank. We also generalize results of Meyer and Clifton-Kent by showing that, under very weak assumptions, any second-countable topological test space contains a dense semi-classical test space.

id: quant-ph/0405179
title: Efficient Multi-Party Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes
authors: Li Xiao, Gui Lu Long, Fu-Guo Deng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 7 pages
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 69, 052307 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405179
abstract: In this work, we generalize the quantum secret sharing scheme of Hillary, Bu\v{z}ek and Berthiaume[Phys. Rev. A59, 1829(1999)] into arbitrary multi-parties. Explicit expressions for the shared secret bit is given. It is shown that in the Hillery-Bu\v{z}ek-Berthiaume quantum secret sharing scheme the secret information is shared in the parity of binary strings formed by the measured outcomes of the participants. In addition, we have increased the efficiency of the quantum secret sharing scheme by generalizing two techniques from quantum key distribution. The favored-measuring-basis Quantum secret sharing scheme is developed from the Lo-Chau-Ardehali technique[H. K. Lo, H. F. Chau and M. Ardehali, quant-ph/0011056] where all the participants choose their measuring-basis asymmetrically, and the measuring-basis-encrypted Quantum secret sharing scheme is developed from the Hwang-Koh-Han technique [W. Y. Hwang, I. G. Koh and Y. D. Han, Phys. Lett. A244, 489 (1998)] where all participants choose their measuring-basis according to a control key. Both schemes are asymptotically 100% in efficiency, hence nearly all the GHZ-states in a quantum secret sharing process are used to generate shared secret information.

id: quant-ph/0405180
title: Compact Orthoalgebras
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 10 pp., LaTeX 2e. An improved and extended treatment of material from sections 2 and 3 of math.RA/0301072
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405180
abstract: We initiate a study of topological orthoalgebras (TOAs), concentrating on the compact case. Examples of TOAs include topological orthomodular lattices, and also the projection lattice of a Hilbert space. As the latter example illustrates, a lattice-ordered TOA need not be a topological lattice. However, we show that a compact Boolean TOA is a topological Boolean algebra. Using this, we prove that any compact regular TOA is atomistic, and has a compact center. We prove also that any compact TOA with isolated 0 is of finite height. We then focus on stably ordered TOAs: those in which the upper-set generated by an open set is open. These include both topological orthomodular lattices and interval orthoalgebras -- in particular, projection lattices. We show that the topology of a compact stably-ordered TOA with isolated 0 is determined by that of of its space of atoms.

id: quant-ph/0405181
title: A perturbative approach for the dynamics of the quantum Zeno subspaces
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Zhuowen Fang
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405181
abstract: In this paper we investigate the dynamics of the quantum Zeno subspaces which are the eigenspaces of the interaction Hamiltonian, belonging to different eigenvalues. Using the perturbation theory and the adiabatic approximation, we get a general expression of the jump probability between different Zeno subspaces. We applied this result in some examples. In these examples, as the coupling constant of the interactions increases, the measurement keeps the system remaining in its initial subspace and the quantum Zeno effect takes place.

id: quant-ph/0405182
title: Perfect random number generator is unnecessary for secure quantum key distribution
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: The proof is VERY simple
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405182
abstract: Game G: Clare passes a string s which is either from perfect random number generator R0 or from good imperfect number generator R1, with equal probability. Alice's information about whether it is from R0 or R1 is bounded by small value h. Alice use s as the input random numbers for QKD protocol with Bob. Suppose Eve may have very small information about the final key if s is from R0 and Eve has large information if s is from R1, then after the protocol, Alice announce the final key, Eve's information about whether s is from R0 or R1 is unreasonablly large, i.e., breaks the known bound, h. Explicit formulas are given in the article.

id: quant-ph/0405183
title: A new mathematical representation of Game Theory II
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: 15 pages, a mathematical version of exemplified quant-ph/0404159, in the style of definition, theorem and proof, a few of new points
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405183
abstract: In another paper with the same name\cite{frame}, we proposed a new representation of Game Theory, but most results are given by specific examples and argument. In this paper, we try to prove the conclusions as far as we can, including a proof of equivalence between the new representation and the traditional Game Theory, and a proof of Classical Nash Theorem in the new representation. And it also gives manipulation definition of quantum game and a proof of the equivalence between this definition and the general abstract representation. A Quantum Nash Proposition is proposed but without a general proof. Then, some comparison between Nash Equilibrium (NE) and the pseudo-dynamical equilibrium (PDE) is discussed. At last, we investigate the possibility that whether such representation leads to truly Quantum Game, and whether such a new representation is helpful to Classical Game, as an answer to the questions in \cite{enk}. Some discussion on continuous-strategy games are also included.

id: quant-ph/0405184
title: The uncertainty relation for joint measurement of position and momentum
authors: R.F. Werner
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures; for Festschrift A.S. Holevo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405184
abstract: We prove an uncertainty relation, which imposes a bound on any joint measurement of position and momentum. It is of the form $(\Delta P)(\Delta Q)\geq C\hbar$, where the `uncertainties' quantify the difference between the marginals of the joint measurement and the corresponding ideal observable. Applied to an approximate position measurement followed by a momentum measurement, the uncertainties become the precision $\Delta Q$ of the position measurement, and the perturbation $\Delta P$ of the conjugate variable introduced by such a measurement. We also determine the best constant $C$, which is attained for a unique phase space covariant measurement.

id: quant-ph/0405185
title: Distillation protocols: Output entanglement and local mutual information
authors: Michal Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, no figures; v2: presentation improved, results unchanged; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405185
abstract: A complementary behavior between local mutual information and average output entanglement is derived for arbitrary bipartite ensembles. This leads to bounds on the yield of entanglement in distillation protocols that involve disinguishing. This bound is saturated in the hashing protocol for distillation, for Bell-diagonal states.

id: quant-ph/0405186
title: Speeding up gate operations through dissipation
authors: Almut Beige, Hugo Cable, Carsten Marr, Peter L. Knight
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Laser Physics, Special issue in honour of the 70th birthday of Herbert Walther
journal: Laser Phys. 15, 162 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405186
abstract: It is commonly believed that decoherence is the main obstacle to quantum information processing. In contrast to this, we show how decoherence in the form of dissipation can improve the performance of certain quantum gates. As an example we consider the realisations of a controlled phase gate and a two-qubit SWAP operation with the help of a single laser pulse in atom-cavity systems. In the presence of spontaneous decay rates, the speed of the gates can be improved by a factor 2 without sacrificing high fidelity and robustness against parameter fluctuations. Even though this leads to finite gate failure rates, the scheme is comparable with other quantum computing proposals.

id: quant-ph/0405187
title: Bound entanglement maximally violating Bell inequalities: quantum entanglement is not equivalent to quantum security
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Pawel Horodecki
comments: Slightly improved version, title changed
journal: Physical Review A 74, 010305(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405187
abstract: It is shown that Smolin four-qubit bound entangled states [Phys. Rev. A, 63 032306 (2001)] can maximally violate two-setting Bell inequality similar to standard CHSH inequality. Surprisingly this entanglement does not allow for secure key distillation, so neither entanglement nor violation of Bell inequalities implies quantum security. It is also pointed out how that kind of bound entanglement can be useful in reducing communication complexity.

id: quant-ph/0405188
title: Short-time decoherence of Josephson charge qubits
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5pages 2figures
journal: Physica B 362 (2005) 243-248
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405188
abstract: In this paper we investigate the short-time decoherence of single Josephson charge qubit (JCQ). The measure of decoherence is chosen as the maximum norm of the deviation density operator. It is shown that when the temperature low enough (for example T=30mK), within the elementary gate-operation time tau{g}~12.7ps, the decoherence is smaller than 0.0001 at present setup of JCQ. The Josephson charge qubit is suitable to take the blocks for quantum computations according to the DiVincenzo low decoherence criterion.

id: quant-ph/0405189
title: Classical versus quantum errors in quantum computation of dynamical systems
authors: Davide Rossini, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 056216 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405189
abstract: We analyze the stability of a quantum algorithm simulating the quantum dynamics of a system with different regimes, ranging from global chaos to integrability. We compare, in these different regimes, the behavior of the fidelity of quantum motion when the system's parameters are perturbed or when there are unitary errors in the quantum gates implementing the quantum algorithm. While the first kind of errors has a classical limit, the second one has no classical analogue. It is shown that, whereas in the first case (``classical errors'') the decay of fidelity is very sensitive to the dynamical regime, in the second case (``quantum errors'') it is almost independent of the dynamical behavior of the simulated system. Therefore, the rich variety of behaviors found in the study of the stability of quantum motion under ``classical'' perturbations has no correspondence in the fidelity of quantum computation under its natural perturbations. In particular, in this latter case it is not possible to recover the semiclassical regime in which the fidelity decays with a rate given by the classical Lyapunov exponent.

id: quant-ph/0405190
title: Using of small-scale quantum computers in cryptography with many-qubit entangled states
authors: K. V. Bayandin, G. B. Lesovik
comments: 
journal: JETP Letters, Vol. 81, No. 7, 2005, pp. 351-355
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405190
abstract: We propose a new cryptographic protocol. It is suggested to encode information in ordinary binary form into many-qubit entangled states with the help of a quantum computer. A state of qubits (realized, e.g., with photons) is transmitted through a quantum channel to the addressee, who applies a quantum computer tuned to realize the inverse unitary transformation decoding of the message. Different ways of eavesdropping are considered, and an estimate of the time needed for determining the secret unitary transformation is given. It is shown that using even small quantum computers can serve as a basis for very efficient cryptographic protocols. For a suggested cryptographic protocol, the time scale on which communication can be considered secure is exponential in the number of qubits in the entangled states and in the number of gates used to construct the quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0405191
title: Generalized Quantum Turing Machine and its Application to the SAT Chaos Algorithm
authors: Satoshi Iriyama, Masanori Ohya, Igor Volovich
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405191
abstract: Ohya and Volovich have proposed a new quantum computation model with chaotic amplification to solve the SAT problem, which went beyond usual quantum algorithm. In this paper, we generalize quantum Turing machine, and we show in this general quantum Turing machine (GQTM) that we can treat the Ohya-Volovich (OV) SAT algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0405192
title: How Can We Observe and Describe Chaos?
authors: Andrzej Kossakowski, Masanori Ohya, Yosio Togawa
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Open Sys. Info. Dyn. 10(3): 221-233, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405192
abstract: We propose a new approach to define chaos in dynamical systems from the point of view of Information Dynamics. Observation of chaos in reality depends upon how to observe it, for instance, how to take the scale in space and time. Therefore it is natural to abandon taking several mathematical limiting procedures. We take account of them, and chaos degree previously introduced is redefined in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0405193
title: A general scheme for the effective-mass Schrodinger equation and the generation of the associated potentials
authors: B. Bagchi, P. Gorain, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 16 pages + 1 figure; minor changes + new "free-particle" problem; version published in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 19 (2004) 2765-2775
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0405193
abstract: A systematic procedure to study one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with a position-dependent effective mass (PDEM) in the kinetic energy operator is explored. The conventional free-particle problem reveals a new and interesting situation in that, in the presence of a mass background, formation of bound states is signalled. We also discuss coordinate-transformed, constant-mass Schr\"odinger equation, its matching with the PDEM form and the consequent decoupling of the ambiguity parameters. This provides a unified approach to many exact results known in the literature, as well as to a lot of new ones.

id: cond-mat/0405018
title: Antibunched photons emitted by a quantum point contact out of equilibrium
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker, H. Schomerus
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure (to appear in PRL); [v2] added the antibunching condition for arbitrary shape of the response function
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93, 096801 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405018
abstract: Motivated by the experimental search for "GHz nonclassical light", we identify the conditions under which current fluctuations in a narrow constriction generate sub-Poissonian radiation. Antibunched electrons generically produce bunched photons, because the same photon mode can be populated by electrons decaying independently from a range of initial energies. Photon antibunching becomes possible at frequencies close to the applied voltage V, when the initial energy range of a decaying electron is restricted. The condition for photon antibunching in a narrow frequency interval below V is derived in terms of the eigenvalues T_n of the transmission matrix. This condition is satisfied in a quantum point contact, where only a single T_n differs from 0 or 1. The photon statistics is then a superposition of binomial distributions.

id: cond-mat/0405041
title: Calibrating dipolar interaction in an atomic condensate
authors: S. Yi, L. You
comments: 5 figures, to be published
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405041
abstract: We revisit the topic of a dipolar condensate with the recently derived more rigorous pseudo-potential for dipole-dipole interaction [A. Derevianko, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 033607 (2003)]. Based on the highly successful variational technique, we find that all dipolar effects estimated before (using the bare dipole-dipole interaction) become significantly larger, i.e. are amplified by the new velocity-dependent pseudo-potential, especially in the limit of large or small trap aspect ratios. This result points to a promising prospect for detecting dipolar effects inside an atomic condensate.

id: cond-mat/0405114
title: Deconfinement and phase diagram of bosons in a linear optical lattice with a particle reservoir
authors: Kingshuk Majumdar, H. A. Fertig
comments: Revised version. Four pages and three figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220402 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405114
abstract: We investigate the zero-temperature phases of bosons in a one-dimensional optical lattice with an explicit tunnel coupling to a Bose condensed particle reservoir. Renormalization group analysis of this system is shown to reveal three phases: one in which the linear system is fully phase-locked to the reservoir; one in which Josephson vortices between the one-dimensional system and the particle reservoir deconfine due to quantum fluctuations, leading to a decoupled state in which the one-dimensional system is metallic; and one in which the one-dimensional system is in a Mott insulating state.

id: cond-mat/0405155
title: Universality of the one dimensional Bose gas with delta interaction
authors: Luigi Amico, Vladimir Korepin
comments: 6 pages, no figures; minor changes; refs. added
journal: Annals of Physics, vol. 314/2 pp. 496 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405155
abstract: We consider several models of interacting bosons in a one dimensional lattice. Some of them are not integrable like the Bose-Hubbard others are integrable. At low density all of these models can be described by the Bose gas with delta interaction. The lattice corrections corresponding to the different models are contrasted.

id: cond-mat/0405159
title: Transfer and storage of vortex states in light and matter waves
authors: Zachary Dutton, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004) 193602
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405159
abstract: We theoretically explore the transfer of vortex states between atomic Bose-Einstein condensates and optical pulses using ultra-slow and stopped light techniques. We find shining a coupling laser on a rotating two-component ground state condensate with a vortex lattice generates a probe laser field with optical vortices. We also find that optical vortex states can be robustly stored in the atomic superfluids for long times (>100 ms).

id: cond-mat/0405184
title: Dynamical role of anyonic excitation statistics in rapidly rotating Bose gases
authors: Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 4 pages of RevTex4; as published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 160403
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405184
abstract: We show that for rotating harmonically trapped Bose gases in a fractional quantum Hall state, the anyonic excitation statistics in the rotating gas can effectively play a {\em dynamical} role. For particular values of the two-dimensional coupling constant $g = -2\pi \hbar^2 (2k-1)/m$, where $k$ is a positive integer, the system becomes a noninteracting gas of anyons, with exactly obtainable solutions satisfying Bogomol'nyi self-dual order parameter equations. Attractive Bose gases under rapid rotation thus can be stabilized in the thermodynamic limit due to the anyonic statistics of their quasiparticle excitations.

id: cond-mat/0405195
title: Adiabatic Path to Fractional Quantum Hall States of a Few Bosonic Atoms
authors: M. Popp, B. Paredes, J. I. Cirac
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053612 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405195
abstract: We propose a realistic scheme to create motional entangled states of a few bosonic atoms. It can experimentally be realized with a gas of ultra cold bosonic atoms trapped in a deep optical lattice potential. By simultaneously deforming and rotating the trapping potential on each lattice site it is feasible to adiabatically create a variety of entangled states on each lattice well. We fully address the case of N=2 and N=4 atoms per well and identify a sequence of fractional quantum Hall states: the Pfaffian state, the 1/2-Laughlin quasiparticle and the 1/2-Laughlin state. Exact knowledge of the spectrum has allowed us to design adiabatic paths to these states, with all times and parameters well within the reach of current experimental setups. We further discuss the detection of these states by measuring different properties as their density profile, angular momentum or correlation functions.

id: cond-mat/0405267
title: Geometric nature of the environment-induced Berry phase and geometric dephasing
authors: Robert S. Whitney, Yuriy Makhlin, Alexander Shnirman, Yuval Gefen
comments: new version : more discussion and less technicalities (4pages 2fig)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 070407 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405267
abstract: We investigate the geometric phase or Berry phase (BP) acquired by a spin-half which is both subject to a slowly varying magnetic field and weakly-coupled to a dissipative environment (either quantum or classical). We study how this phase is modified by the environment and find that the modification is of a geometric nature. While the original BP (for an isolated system) is the flux of a monopole-field through the loop traversed by the magnetic field, the environment-induced modification of the BP is the flux of a quadrupole-like field. We find that the environment-induced phase is complex, and its imaginary part is a geometric contribution to dephasing. Its sign depends on the direction of the loop. Unlike the BP, this geometric dephasing is gauge invariant for open paths of the magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0405273
title: Asymmetry and decoherence in a double-layer persistent-current qubit
authors: Guido Burkard, David P. DiVincenzo, P. Bertet, I. Chiorescu, J. E. Mooij
comments: v.2: published version; 8 pages, 12 figures; added comparison with experiment, improved discussion of T_phi
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 134504 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405273
abstract: Superconducting circuits fabricated using the widely used shadow evaporation technique can contain unintended junctions which change their quantum dynamics. We discuss a superconducting flux qubit design that exploits the symmetries of a circuit to protect the qubit from unwanted coupling to the noisy environment, in which the unintended junctions can spoil the quantum coherence. We present a theoretical model based on a recently developed circuit theory for superconducting qubits and calculate relaxation and decoherence times that can be compared with existing experiments. Furthermore, the coupling of the qubit to a circuit resonance (plasmon mode) is explained in terms of the asymmetry of the circuit. Finally, possibilities for prolonging the relaxation and decoherence times of the studied superconducting qubit are proposed on the basis of the obtained results.

id: cond-mat/0405313
title: Error counting in a quantum error-correcting code and the ground-state energy of a spin glass
authors: Hidetoshi Nishimori, Peter Sollich
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, JPSJ style, latex style file included
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, 73:2701-2707, 2004
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405313
abstract: Upper and lower bounds are given for the number of equivalence classes of error patterns in the toric code for quantum memory. The results are used to derive a lower bound on the ground-state energy of the +/-J Ising spin glass model on the square lattice with symmetric and asymmetric bond distributions. This is a highly non-trivial example in which insights from quantum information lead directly to an explicit result on a physical quantity in the statistical mechanics of disordered systems.

id: cond-mat/0405374
title: Quantum phases of electric dipole ensembles in atom chips
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, REVTEX. Title slightly changed and conclusions extended
journal: Phys.Lett. A344 (2005) 441
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405374
abstract: We present how a phase factor is generated when an electric dipole moves along a closed trajectory inside a magnetic field gradient. The similarity of this situation with charged particles in a magnetic field can be employed to simulate condensed matter models, such as the quantum Hall effect and chiral spin Hamiltonians, with ultra cold atoms integrated on atom chips. To illustrate this we consider a triangular configuration of a two dimensional optical lattice, where the chiral spin Hamiltonian $\vec{\sigma}_i \cdot \vec{\sigma}_j \times \vec{\sigma}_k$ can be generated between any three neighbours on a lattice yielding an experimentally implementable chiral ground state.

id: cond-mat/0405384
title: Topological spin transport of photons: "magnetic monopole" gauge field in Maxwell equations and polarization splitting of rays in periodically inhomogeneous media
authors: K.Yu.Bliokh, V.D.Freilikher
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 72, 035108 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405384
abstract: Topological spin transport of electromagnetic waves (photons) in stationary smoothly inhomogeneous isotropic medium is studied. By diagonalizing photon kinetic energy in Maxwell equations we derive the non-Abelian pure gauge potential in the momentum space, which in adiabatic approximation for transverse waves takes the form of two Abelian U(1) potentials corresponding to magnetic monopole-type fields. These fields act on circularly polarized waves resulting in the topological spin transport of photons. We deduce general semiclassical (geometrical optics) ray equations that take into account a Lorentz-type force of the magnetic-monopole-like gauge field. Detailed analysis of rays in 3D medium with 2D periodic inhomogeneity is presented. It is shown that rays located initially in the inhomogeneity plane experience topological deflections or splitting that move them out from this plane. The dependence of the rays' deflection on the parameters of the medium and on the direction of propagation is studied.

id: cond-mat/0405525
title: Rigorous Born Approximation and beyond for the Spin-Boson Model
authors: D. P. DiVincenzo, D. Loss
comments: Greatly extended version of short paper cond-mat/0304118. Accompanying Mathematica notebook fop5.nb, available in Source, is an essential part of this work; it gives full details of the fourth-order Born calculation summarized in the text. fop5.nb is prepared in arXiv style (available from Wolfram Research)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405525
abstract: Within the lowest-order Born approximation, we present an exact calculation of the time dynamics of the spin-boson model in the ohmic regime. We observe non-Markovian effects at zero temperature that scale with the system-bath coupling strength and cause qualitative changes in the evolution of coherence at intermediate times of order of the oscillation period. These changes could significantly affect the performance of these systems as qubits. In the biased case, we find a prompt loss of coherence at these intermediate times, whose decay rate is set by $\sqrt{\alpha}$, where $\alpha$ is the coupling strength to the environment. We also explore the calculation of the next order Born approximation: we show that, at the expense of very large computational complexity, interesting physical quantities can be rigorously computed at fourth order using computer algebra, presented completely in an accompanying Mathematica file. We compute the $O(\alpha)$ corrections to the long time behavior of the system density matrix; the result is identical to the reduced density matrix of the equilibrium state to the same order in $\alpha$. All these calculations indicate precision experimental tests that could confirm or refute the validity of the spin-boson model in a variety of systems.

id: cond-mat/0405580
title: Dynamics of the superfluid to Mott insulator transition in one dimension
authors: S.R. Clark, D. Jaksch
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures, RevTex 4. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 043612 (2004)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405580
abstract: We numerically study the superfluid to Mott insulator transition for bosonic atoms in a one dimensional lattice by exploiting a recently developed simulation method for strongly correlated systems. We demonstrate this methods accuracy and applicability to Bose-Hubbard model calculations by comparison with exact results for small systems. By utilizing the efficient scaling of this algorithm we then concentrate on systems of comparable size to those studied in experiments and in the presence of a magnetic trap. We investigate spatial correlations and fluctuations of the ground state as well as the nature and speed at which the superfluid component is built up when dynamically melting a Mott insulating state by ramping down the lattice potential. This is performed for slow ramping, where we find that the superfluid builds up on a time scale consistent with single-atom hopping and for rapid ramping where the buildup is much faster than can be explained by this simple mechanism. Our calculations are in remarkable agreement with the experimental results obtained by Greiner et al. [Nature (London) 415, 39 (2002)].

id: cond-mat/0405597
title: Quantum impurity approach to a coupled qubit problem
authors: Sebastien Camalet, Josef Schriefl, Pascal Degiovanni, Francois Delduc
comments: New version (accepted in Europhysics Letters)
journal: Europhysics Letters 68 (2004) 37
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405597
abstract: We consider a system of two qubits at the ends of a finite length 1D cavity. This problem is mapped onto the double-Kondo model which is also shown to describe the low energy physics of a finite length quantum wire with resonant levels at its ends. At the Toulouse point the ground state energy and the average populations and correlations of the qubits or resonant levels at zero temperature are computed. These results show that the effective interactions between the qubits or resonant levels can be used to probe their associated Kondo length scale.

id: cond-mat/0405628
title: Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling and Quasiparticle Dissipation in d-wave Superconductor Josephson Junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Satoshi Kashiwaya, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. B 70 (2004) No.9
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70 (2004) 132505
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405628
abstract: We examine the macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in high-Tc superconductor Josephson junctions with a d-wave order parameter. Using microscopic Hamiltonian and the functional integral method, we analytically obtain the MQT rate (the inverse lifetime of the metastable state) for the c-axis twist Josephson junctions. In the case of the zero twist angle, the system shows the super-Ohmic dissipation due to the presence of the nodal quasiparticle tunneling. Therefore, the MQT rate is strongly suppressed in compared with the finite twist angle cases.

id: cond-mat/0405633
title: Pairing gap and in-gap excitations in trapped fermionic superfluids
authors: J. Kinnunen, M. Rodriguez, P. Torma
comments: Journal version
journal: Science (July 22 2004 Science Express 110782)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405633
abstract: We consider trapped atomic Fermi gases with Feshbach-resonance enhanced interactions in pseudogap and superfluid temperatures. We calculate the spectrum of RF(or laser)-excitations for transitions that transfer atoms out of the superfluid state. The spectrum displays the pairing gap and also the contribution of unpaired atoms, i.e. in-gap excitations. The results support the conclusion that a superfluid, where pairing is a many-body effect, was observed in recent experiments on RF spectroscopy of the pairing gap.

id: cond-mat/0405694
title: Studies of Short-Time Decoherence for Evaluation of Quantum Computer Designs
authors: Vladimir Privman, Denis Tolkunov
comments: 
journal: HAIT J. Sci. Eng. 1, 573-585 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0405694
abstract: We review our recent results on short time approximations, with emphasis on applications for which the system-environment interactions involve a general non-Hermitian system operator and its conjugate. We evaluate the onset of decoherence at low temperatures in open quantum systems. The developed approach is complementary to Markovian approximations and appropriate for evaluation of quantum computing schemes. Example of a spin system coupled to a bosonic heat bath is discussed.

id: gr-qc/0405012
title: Cosmological constant and vacuum energy
authors: G.E. Volovik
comments: 23 pages, accepted for special topic issue of Annalen der Physik related to Einstein's contributions to physics, references and figure added
journal: Annalen Phys. 14 (2005) 165-176
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0405012
abstract: The general thermodynamic analysis of the quantum vacuum, which is based on our knowledge of the vacua in condensed-matter systems, is consistent with the Einstein earlier view on the cosmological constant. In the equilibrium Universes the value of the cosmological constant is regulated by matter. In the empty Universe, the vacuum energy is exactly zero, lambda=0. The huge contribution of the zero point motion of the quantum fields to the vacuum energy is exactly cancelled by the higher-energy degrees of freedom of the quantum vacuum. In the equilibrium Universes homogeneously filled by matter, the vacuum is disturbed, and density of the vacuum energy becomes proportional to the energy density of matter. This consideration applies to any equilibrium vacuum irrespective of whether the vacuum is false or true, and is valid both in the Einstein general theory of relativity and within the special theory of relativity, i.e. in the world without gravity.

id: gr-qc/0405060
title: Simplification of the Spectral Analysis of the Volume Operator in Loop Quantum Gravity
authors: Johannes Brunnemann, Thomas Thiemann
comments: 56 pages, Latex2e, 15 pictures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 1289-1346
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0405060
abstract: The Volume Operator plays a crucial role in the definition of the quantum dynamics of Loop Quantum Gravity (LQG). Efficient calculations for dynamical problems of LQG can therefore be performed only if one has sufficient control over the volume spectrum. While closed formulas for the matrix elements are currently available in the literature, these are complicated polynomials in 6j symbols which in turn are given in terms of Racah's formula which is too complicated in order to perform even numerical calculations for the semiclassically important regime of large spins. Hence, so far not even numerically the spectrum could be accessed. In this article we demonstrate that by means of the Elliot -- Biedenharn identity one can get rid of all the 6j symbols for any valence of the gauge invariant vertex, thus immensely reducing the computational effort. We use the resulting compact formula to study numerically the spectrum of the gauge invariant 4 -- vertex. The techniques derived in this paper could be of use also for the analysis of spin -- spin interaction Hamiltonians of many -- particle problems in atomic and nuclear physics.

id: hep-ph/0405009
title: Spectrum of q-Deformed Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. B477 (2000) 361-366
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0405009
abstract: The energy spectrum of q-deformed Schr\"odinger equation is demonstrated. This spectrum includes an exponential factor with new quantum numbers--the $q$-exciting number and the scaling index. The pattern of quark and lepton masses is qualitatively explained by such a q-deformed spectrum in a composite model.

id: hep-ph/0405087
title: Baryonium with a phenomenological skyrmion-type potential
authors: Mu-Lin Yan, Si Li, Bin Wu, Bo-Qiang Ma
comments: 6 LaTex pages, 2 figures. Final version in journal publication
journal: Phys. Rev. D 72 (2005) 034027
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0405087
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the nucleon-antinucleon static energies in the Skyrme model with the product {\it Anzatz}. The calculation shows that in the ungroomed $S\bar S$ (skyrmion and antiskyrmion) channel, which leads to rapid annihilation, there exists a quasi-stable bound state which may give a natural explanation for the near-threshold enhancement in the proton-antiproton $(p\bar{p})$ mass spectrum reported by the BES Collaboration and the Belle Collaboration. Similar to the phenomenological well potential of the deuteron, we construct a phenomenological skyrmion-type potential to study this narrow $p\bar{p}$-resonance in $ J/\psi\to \gamma p\bar{p}$. By this potential model, a $p\bar{p}$ baryonium with small binding energies is suggested and the decay width of this state is calculated by WKB approximation. In this picture the decay is attributed to quantum tunnelling and $p\bar{p}$ annihilation. Prediction on the decay mode from the baryonium annihilation at rest is also pointed out.

id: hep-ph/0405143
title: Testing Spatial Noncommutativity via Rydberg Atoms
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages. Physical Review Letters (in press)
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.93:043002,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0405143
abstract: The possibility of testing spatial noncommutativity via Rydberg atoms is explored. An atomic dipole of a cold Rydberg atom is arranged in appropriate electric and magnetic field, so that the motion of the dipole is constrained to be planar and rotationally symmetric. Spatial noncommutativity leads to that the canonical angular momentum possesses fractional values. In the limit of vanishing kinetic energy, the dominate value of the lowest canonical angular momentum takes $\hbar/2$. Furthermore, in the limit of eliminating magnetic field, the dominate value of the lowest canonical angular momentum changes from $\hbar/2$ to $\hbar/4$. This result is a clear signal of spatial noncommutativity. An experimental verification of this prediction is suggested.

id: hep-th/0405008
title: Lagrangian quantum field theory in momentum picture. II. Free spinor fields
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 65 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405008
abstract: Free spinor fields, with spin 1/2, are explored in details in the momentum picture of motion in Lagrangian quantum field theory. The field equations are equivalently written in terms of creation and annihilation operators and on their base the anticommutation relations are derived. Some problems concerning the vacuum and state vectors of free spinor field are discussed. Several Lagrangians, describing free spinor fields, are considered and the basic consequences of them are investigated.

id: hep-th/0405013
title: Ladder operators for subtle hidden shape invariant potentials
authors: Elso Drigo Filho, Regina Maria Ricotta
comments: 9 pages, based on the talk given at International Conference Progress in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics (PSQM03), Valladolid, Spain, 15-19 July, 2003, to appear in a Special Issue of J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10057-10064
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405013
abstract: Ladder operators can be constructed for all potentials that present the integrability condition known as shape invariance, satisfied by most of the exactly solvable potentials. Using the superalgebra of supersymmetric quantum mechanics we construct the ladder operators for two exactly solvable potentials that present a subtle hidden shape invariance.

id: hep-th/0405033
title: Minimum Length from Quantum Mechanics and Classical General Relativity
authors: Xavier Calmet, Michael Graesser, Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 8 pages, latex, to appear in the Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 211101
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405033
abstract: We derive fundamental limits on measurements of position, arising from quantum mechanics and classical general relativity. First, we show that any primitive probe or target used in an experiment must be larger than the Planck length, $l_P$. This suggests a Planck-size {\it minimum ball} of uncertainty in any measurement. Next, we study interferometers (such as LIGO) whose precision is much finer than the size of any individual components and hence are not obviously limited by the minimum ball. Nevertheless, we deduce a fundamental limit on their accuracy of order $l_P$. Our results imply a {\it device independent} limit on possible position measurements.

id: hep-th/0405135
title: Fractional Angular Momentum in Noncommutative Space
authors: Jian-zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. B584 (2004) 204-209
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405135
abstract: In noncommutative space to maintain Bose-Einstein statistics for identical particles at the non-perturbation level described by deformed annihilation-creation operators when the state vector space of identical bosons is constructed by generalizing one-particle quantum mechanics it is explored that the consistent ansatz of commutation relations of phase space variables should simultaneously include space-space noncommutativity and momentum-momentum noncommutativity, and a new type of boson commutation relations at the deformed level is obtained. Consistent perturbation expansions of deformed annihilation-creation operators are obtained. The influence of the new boson commutation relations on dynamics is discussed. The non-perturbation and perturbation property of the orbital angular momentum of two-dimensional system are investigated. Its spectrum possesses fractional eigen values and fractional intervals.

id: hep-th/0405152
title: Entanglement Entropy and Quantum Field Theory
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures. Our results for more than one interval are in general incorrect. A note had been added discussing this
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0406:P06002,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405152
abstract: We carry out a systematic study of entanglement entropy in relativistic quantum field theory. This is defined as the von Neumann entropy S_A=-Tr rho_A log rho_A corresponding to the reduced density matrix rho_A of a subsystem A. For the case of a 1+1-dimensional critical system, whose continuum limit is a conformal field theory with central charge c, we re-derive the result S_A\sim(c/3) log(l) of Holzhey et al. when A is a finite interval of length l in an infinite system, and extend it to many other cases: finite systems,finite temperatures, and when A consists of an arbitrary number of disjoint intervals. For such a system away from its critical point, when the correlation length \xi is large but finite, we show that S_A\sim{\cal A}(c/6)\log\xi, where \cal A is the number of boundary points of A. These results are verified for a free massive field theory, which is also used to confirm a scaling ansatz for the case of finite-size off-critical systems, and for integrable lattice models, such as the Ising and XXZ models, which are solvable by corner transfer matrix methods. Finally the free-field results are extended to higher dimensions, and used to motivate a scaling form for the singular part of the entanglement entropy near a quantum phase transition.

id: hep-th/0405177
title: Wavepackets and Duality in Noncommutative Planar Quantum Mechanics
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: Latex, The first part on wave packets is expanded and rewritten, Results and conclusions are unchanged
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405177
abstract: Effects of noncommutativity are investigated in planar quantum mechanics in the coordinate representation. Generally these issues are addressed by converting to the momentum space. In the first part of the work we show noncommutative effects in a Gaussian wavepacket through the broadening of its width. We also rederive results on *-product of Gaussian wavepackets. In the second part, we construct a "Master" model for a noncommutative harmonic oscillator by embedding it in an extended space. Different gauge choices leading to different forms of noncommutativity, (such as between coordinates only, between momenta only or noncommutativity of a more general kind), can be studied in a unified and systematic manner. Thus the dual nature of these theories are also revealed.

id: hep-th/0405183
title: No black hole information puzzle in a relational universe
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, no figures, revtex
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D13 (2004) 2315-2320
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405183
abstract: The introduction of a relational time in quantum gravity naturally implies that pure quantum states evolve into mixed quantum states. We show, using a recently proposed concrete implementation, that the rate at which pure states naturally evolve into mixed ones is faster than that due to collapsing into a black hole that later evaporates. This is rather remarkable since the fundamental mechanism for decoherence is usually very weak. Therefore the ``black hole information puzzle'' is rendered de-facto unobservable.

id: hep-th/0405186
title: Self-Gravitational Corrections to the Cardy-Verlinde Formula and the FRW Brane Cosmology in SdS_5 Bulk
authors: Mohammad R. Setare, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX; (v2) references added and corrected
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 7219-7232
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405186
abstract: The semiclassical corrections to the Cardy-Verlinde entropy of a five-dimensional Schwarzschild de-Sitter black hole (SdS_5) are explicitly evaluated. These corrections are considered within the context of KKW analysis and arise as a result of the self-gravitation effect. In addition, a four-dimensional spacelike brane is considered as the boundary of the SdS_5 bulk background. It is already known that the induced geometry of the brane is exactly given by that of a radiation-dominated FRW universe. By exploiting the CFT/FRW-cosmology relation, we derive the self-gravitational corrections to the first Friedmann-like equation which is the equation of the brane motion. The additional term that arises due to the semiclassical analysis can be viewed as stiff matter where the self-gravitational corrections act as the source for it. This result is contrary to standard analysis that regards the charge of SdS_5 bulk black hole as the source for stiff matter. Furthermore, we rewrite the Friedmann-like equation in a such way that it represents the conservation equation of energy of a point particle moving in a one-dimensional effective potential. The self-gravitational corrections to the effective potential and, consequently, to the point particle's motion are obtained. A short analysis on the asymptotic behavior of the 4-dimensional brane is presented.

id: hep-th/0405207
title: Dirac Particle in an Aharonov-Bohm Potential: The Structure of the First Order S-matrix
authors: M.S.Shikakhwa
comments: 11 pages, to appear in IJTP. Title, abstract and introduction slightly modified
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405207
abstract: The structure of the interaction Hamiltonian in the first order $S-$matrix element of a Dirac particle in an Aharonov-Bohm (AB) field is analyzed and shown to have interesting algebraic properties. It is demonstrated that as a consequence of these properties, this interaction Hamiltonian splits both the incident and outgoing waves in the the first order $S-$matrix into their $\frac{\Sigma_3}{2}-$components (eigenstates of the third component of the spin). The matrix element can then be viewed as the sum of two transitions taking place in these two channels of the spin. At the level of partial waves, each partial wave of the conserved total angular momentum is split into two partial waves of the orbital angular momentum in a manner consistent with the conservation of the total angular momentum quantum number.

id: hep-th/0405212
title: Perturbative Study of Bremsstrahlung and Pair-Production by Spin-1/2 Particles in the Aharonov-Bohm Potential
authors: U. A. al-Binni, M. S. Shikakhwa
comments: 15 pages, RevTex 4, 2 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 44 (2005) 1399-1412
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405212
abstract: In the presence of an external Aharonov-Bohm potential, we investigate the two QED processes of the emission of a bremsstrahlung photon by an electron, and the production of an electron-positron pair by a single photon. Calculations are carried out using the Born approximation within the framework of covariant perturbation theory to lowest non-vanishing order in \alpha. The matrix element for each process is derived, and the corresponding differential cross-section is calculated. In the non-relativistic limit, the resulting angular and spectral distributions and some polarization properties are considered, and compared to results of previous works.

id: hep-th/0405235
title: High-Order Corrections to the Entropy and Area of Quantum Black Holes
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 3 pages
journal: Class. Quant. Grav., Letter to the Editor. Vol. 21, L97 (2004)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0405235
abstract: The celebrated area-entropy formula for black holes has provided the most important clue in the search for the elusive theory of quantum gravity. We explore the possibility that the (linear) area-entropy relation acquires some smaller corrections. Using the Boltzmann-Einstein formula, we rule out the possibility for a power-law correction, and provide severe constraints on the coefficient of a possible log-area correction. We argue that a non-zero logarithmic correction to the area-entropy relation, would also imply a modification of the area-mass relation for quantum black holes.

id: math-ph/0405025
title: Relativistic N-boson systems bound by pair potentials V(r_{ij}) = g(r_{ij}^2)
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha, Franz F. Schoeberl
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004) 3086-3094
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405025
abstract: We study the lowest energy E of a relativistic system of N identical bosons bound by pair potentials of the form V(r_{ij}) = g(r_{ij}^2) in three spatial dimensions. In natural units hbar = c = 1 the system has the semirelativistic `spinless-Salpeter' Hamiltonian H = \sum_{i=1}^N \sqrt{m^2 + p_i^2} + \sum_{j>i=1}^N g(|r_i - r_j|^2), where g is monotone increasing and has convexity g'' >= 0. We use `envelope theory' to derive formulas for general lower energy bounds and we use a variational method to find complementary upper bounds valid for all N >= 2. In particular, we determine the energy of the N-body oscillator g(r^2) = c r^2 with error less than 0.15% for all m >= 0, N >= 2, and c > 0.

id: math-ph/0405039
title: A lower bound to the spectral threshold in curved tubes
authors: P. Exner, P. Freitas, D. Krejcirik
comments: LaTeX, 13 pages; to appear in R. Soc. Lond. Proc. Ser. A Math. Phys. Eng. Sci
journal: R. Soc. Lond. Proc. Ser. A Math. Phys. Eng. Sci. 460 (2004), no. 2052, 3457-3467
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405039
abstract: We consider the Laplacian in curved tubes of arbitrary cross-section rotating together with the Frenet frame along curves in Euclidean spaces of arbitrary dimension, subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions on the cylindrical surface and Neumann conditions at the ends of the tube. We prove that the spectral threshold of the Laplacian is estimated from below by the lowest eigenvalue of the Dirichlet Laplacian in a torus determined by the geometry of the tube.

id: math-ph/0405042
title: Validity and failure of some entropy inequalities for CAR systems
authors: Hajime Moriya
comments: 14 pages, latex, to appear in JMP. Some typos are corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46. 033508 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405042
abstract: Basic properties of von Neumann entropy such as the triangle inequality and what we call MONO-SSA are studied for CAR systems. We show that both inequalities hold for any even state. We construct a certain class of noneven states giving counter examples of those inequalities. It is not always possible to extend a set of prepared states on disjoint regions to some joint state on the whole region for CAR systems. However, for every even state, we have its `symmetric purification' by which the validity of those inequalities is shown. Some (realized) noneven states have peculiar state correlations among subsystems and induce the failure of those inequalities.

id: math-ph/0405045
title: Representations of Coherent and Squeezed States in a $f$-deformed Fock Space
authors: R. Roknizadeh, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 13 pages, 4 Figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen 37 (2004) 5640-5660
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405045
abstract: We establish some of the properties of the states interpolating between number and coherent states denoted by $| n >_{\lambda}$; among them are the reproducing of these states by the action of an operator-valued function on $| n>$ (the standard Fock space) and the fact that they can be regarded as $f$-deformed coherent bound states. In this paper we use them, as the basis of our new Fock space which in this case are not orthogonal but normalized. Then by some special superposition of them we obtain new representations for coherent and squeezed states in the new basis. Finally the statistical properties of these states are studied in detail.

id: math-ph/0405046
title: Lieb-Thirring inequalities for geometrically induced bound states
authors: Pavel Exner, Helmut Linde, Timo Weidl
comments: LaTeX2e, 14 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 70 (2004), 83-95
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405046
abstract: We prove new inequalities of the Lieb-Thirring type on the eigenvalues of Schr\"odinger operators in wave guides with local perturbations. The estimates are optimal in the weak-coupling case. To illustrate their applications, we consider, in particular, a straight strip and a straight circular tube with either mixed boundary conditions or boundary deformations.

id: math-ph/0405065
title: Quantization Methods: A Guide for Physicists and Analysts
authors: S. Twareque Ali, Miroslav Engli?
comments: 72 pages, review article
journal: Rev.Math.Phys.17:391-490,2005
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0405065
abstract: In this review we attempt to present an overview of some of the better known quantization techniques found in the current literature and used both by physicists and mathematicians. The treatment is more descriptive than rigorous, for we aim to reach both physicists and mathematicians, including non-specialists in the field. It is our hope that an overview such as this will put into perspective the relative successes as well as shortcomings of the various techniques that have been developed and, besides delineating their usefulness in understanding the nature of the quantum regime, will also demonstrate the mathematical richness of the attendant structures.

id: math/0405032
title: Universal collective rotation channels and quantum error correction
authors: Marius Junge, Peter T. Kim, David W. Kribs
comments: 28 pages, preprint version. To appear in J. Math. Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys., 46 (2005), 022102.
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Combinatorics (math.CO); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405032
abstract: We present and investigate a new class of quantum channels, what we call `universal collective rotation channels', that includes the well-known class of collective rotation channels as a special case. The fixed point set and noise commutant coincide for a channel in this class. Computing the precise structure of this C*-algebra is a core problem in a particular noiseless subsystem method of quantum error correction. We prove that there is an abundance of noiseless subsystems for every channel in this class and that Young tableaux combinatorics can be used to explicitly compute these subsystems.

id: math/0405402
title: q,k-generalized gamma and beta functions
authors: Rafael Diaz, Carolina Teruel
comments: 17 pages
journal: J.Nonlin.Math.Phys. 12 (2005) 118-134
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405402
abstract: We introduce the q,k-generalized Pochhammer symbol. We construct $\Gamma_{q,k}$ and $B_{q,k}$, the q,k-generalized gamma and beta fuctions, and show that they satisfy properties that generalize those satisfied by the classical gamma and beta functions. Moreover, we provide integral representations for $\Gamma_{q,k}$ and $B_{q,k}.$

id: math/0405571
title: Asymptotics in Quantum Statistics
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: This is already a few years old but has been waiting all that time for math.ST
journal: State of the Art in Probability and Statistics, IMS Lecture Notes - Monograph Series 36 (2001), 255-285, eds A.W. van der Vaart, M. de Gunst, C.A.J. Klaassen
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405571
abstract: Observations or measurements taken of a quantum system (a small number of fundamental particles) are inherently random. If the state of the system depends on unknown parameters, then the distribution of the outcome depends on these parameters too, and statistical inference problems result. Often one has a choice of what measurement to take, corresponding to different experimental set-ups or settings of measurement apparatus. This leads to a design problem--which measurement is best for a given statistical problem. This paper gives an introduction to this field in the most simple of settings, that of estimating the state of a spin-half particle given n independent copies of the particle. We show how in some cases asymptotically optimal measurements can be constructed. Other cases present interesting open problems, connected to the fact that for some models, quantum Fisher information is in some sense non-additive. In physical terms, we have non-locality without entanglement.

id: math/0405572
title: Teleportation into Quantum Statistics
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Been waiting 3 years for math.ST
journal: Journal of the Korean Statistical Society 30 (2001), 291-325
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405572
abstract: The paper is a tutorial introduction to quantum information theory, developing the basic model and emphasizing the role of statistics and probability.

id: math/0405595
title: An invitation to quantum tomography (II)
authors: L.M. Artiles, R.D. Gill, M.I. Guta
comments: An earlier version of this paper with more mathematical background but less applied statistical content can be found on arXiv as quant-ph/0303020. An electronic version of the paper with high resolution figures (postscript instead of bitmaps) is available from the authors. v2: added cross-validation results, references
journal: Journal of the Royal Statistical Society (B) 67, 109-134 (2005)
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405595
abstract: The quantum state of a light beam can be represented as an infinite dimensional density matrix or equivalently as a density on the plane called the Wigner function. We describe quantum tomography as an inverse statistical problem in which the state is the unknown parameter and the data is given by results of measurements performed on identical quantum systems. We present consistency results for Pattern Function Projection Estimators as well as for Sieve Maximum Likelihood Estimators for both the density matrix of the quantum state and its Wigner function. Finally we illustrate via simulated data the performance of the estimators. An EM algorithm is proposed for practical implementation. There remain many open problems, e.g. rates of convergence, adaptation, studying other estimators, etc., and a main purpose of the paper is to bring these to the attention of the statistical community.

id: math/0405596
title: On hypergeometric functions and Pochhammer $k$-symbol
authors: Rafael Diaz, Eddy Pariguan
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Divulgaciones Matematicas. Vol.15. No.2 (2007), pp. 179-192
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0405596
abstract: We introduce the $k$-generalized gamma function $\Gamma_k$, beta function $B_k$, and Pochhammer $k$-symbol $(x)_{n,k}$. We prove several identities generalizing those satisfied by the classical gamma function, beta function and Pochhammer symbol. We provided integral representation for the $\Gamma_k$ and $B_k$ functions.

id: nlin/0405068
title: Phase shift analysis of PT-symmetric nonhermitian extension of A_{N-1} Calogero model without confining interaction
authors: B. Basu-Mallick, Tanaya Bhattacharyya, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Latex, 10 pages, no figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 543-552
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0405068
abstract: We discuss a many-particle quantum system, which is obtained by adding some nonhermitian but PT (i.e. combined parity and time reversal) invariant interaction to the $A_{N-1}$ rational Calogero model without confining potential. This model gives rise to scattering states with continuous real spectrum. The scattering phase shift is determined through the exchange statistics parameter. We find that, unlike the case of usual Calogero model, the exclusion and exchange statistics parameter differ from each other in the presence of PT invariant interaction.

id: nucl-th/0405011
title: Exactly solvable Richardson-Gaudin models for many-body quantum systems
authors: J. Dukelsky, S. Pittel, G. Sierra
comments: 49 pages, 13 figures
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.76:643-662,2004
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0405011
abstract: The use of exactly-solvable Richardson-Gaudin (R-G) models to describe the physics of systems with strong pair correlations is reviewed. We begin with a brief discussion of Richardson's early work, which demonstrated the exact solvability of the pure pairing model, and then show how that work has evolved recently into a much richer class of exactly-solvable models. We then show how the Richardson solution leads naturally to an exact analogy between such quantum models and classical electrostatic problems in two dimensions. This is then used to demonstrate formally how BCS theory emerges as the large-N limit of the pure pairing Hamiltonian and is followed by several applications to problems of relevance to condensed matter physics, nuclear physics and the physics of confined systems. Some of the interesting effects that are discussed in the context of these exactly-solvable models include: (1) the crossover from superconductivity to a fluctuation-dominated regime in small metallic grains, (2) the role of the nucleon Pauli principle in suppressing the effects of high spin bosons in interacting boson models of nuclei, and (3) the possibility of fragmentation in confined boson systems. Interesting insight is also provided into the origin of the superconducting phase transition both in two-dimensional electronic systems and in atomic nuclei, based on the electrostatic image of the corresponding exactly-solvable quantum pairing models.

id: nucl-th/0405043
title: Hidden evidence of non-exponential nuclear decay
authors: N. G. Kelkar, M. Nowakowski, K. P. Khemchandani
comments: 12 pages LaTex, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. C70 (2004) 024601
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0405043
abstract: The framework to describe natural phenomena at their basics being quantum mechanics, there exist a large number of common global phenomena occurring in different branches of natural sciences. One such global phenomenon is spontaneous quantum decay. However, its long time behaviour is experimentally poorly known. Here we show, that by combining two genuine quantum mechanical results, it is possible to infer on this large time behaviour, directly from data. Specifically, we find evidence for non-exponential behaviour of alpha decay of 8Be at large times from experiments.

id: physics/0405029
title: Quantum Mechanics Another Way
authors: J. Hancock, M. A. Walton, B. Wynder
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Eur. J. Phys
journal: Eur.J.Phys.25:525-534,2004
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0405029
abstract: Deformation quantization (sometimes called phase-space quantization) is a formulation of quantum mechanics that is not usually taught to undergraduates. It is formally quite similar to classical mechanics: ordinary functions on phase space take the place of operators, but the functions are multiplied in an exotic way, using the star product. Here we attempt a brief, pedagogical discussion of deformation quantization, that is suitable for inclusion in an undergraduate course.

id: physics/0405064
title: Optical fiber coupling to planar photonic crystal microcavities
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Kartik Srinivasan, Oskar Painter
comments: Superceded by physics/0412002 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0405064
abstract: A technique is demonstrated which efficiently transfers light between a tapered standard single-mode optical fiber and a resonant mode of a high-Q photonic crystal cavity with mode volume less than a cubic wavelength in size. Cavity mode quality factors of 4.7 x 10^4 are measured, and a total fiber-to-cavity coupling efficiency of 44% is demonstrated.

id: physics/0405095
title: Statistical characterization of the interchange-instability spectrum of a separable ideal-magnetohydrodynamic model system
authors: R.L. Dewar, T. Tatsuno, Z. Yoshida, C. Nuehrenberg, B. F. McMillan
comments: 11 pages (REVTeX, 2 column), 23 figures (.eps), to be submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 70, 066409 (2004)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0405095
abstract: A Suydam-unstable circular cylinder of plasma with periodic boundary conditions in the axial direction is studied within the approximation of linearized ideal magnetohydrodynamics (MHD). The normal mode equations are completely separable, so both the toroidal Fourier harmonic index n and the poloidal index m are good quantum numbers. The full spectrum of eigenvalues for m in the range 1 to m_max is analyzed quantitatively, using asymptotics for large m, numerics for all m, and graphics for qualitative understanding. The density of eigenvalues scales like the square of m_max for large m_max. Because finite-m corrections scale inversely as the square of m_max, their inclusion is essential in order to obtain the correct statistics for the distribution of eigenvalues. Near the largest growth rate only a single radial eigenmode contributes to the spectrum, so the eigenvalues there depend only on m and n, as in a two-dimensional system. However, unlike the generic separable two-dimensional system, the statistics of the ideal-MHD spectrum departs somewhat from the Poisson distribution, even for arbitrarily large m_max. This departure from Poissonian statistics may be understood qualitatively from the nature of the distribution of rational numbers in the rotational transform profile.

