id: quant-ph/0406001
title: Decoherence by a chaotic many-spin bath
authors: J. Lages, V. V. Dobrovitski, B. N. Harmon
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX, 5 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406001
abstract: We numerically investigate decoherence of a two-spin system (central system) by a bath of many spins 1/2. By carefully adjusting parameters, the dynamical regime of the bath has been varied from quantum chaos to regular, while all other dynamical characteristics have been kept practically intact. We explicitly demonstrate that for a many-body quantum bath, the onset of quantum chaos leads to significantly faster and stronger decoherence compared to an equivalent non-chaotic bath. Moreover, the non-diagonal elements of the system's density matrix decay differently for chaotic and non-chaotic baths. Therefore, knowledge of the basic parameters of the bath (strength of the system-bath interaction, bath's spectral density of states) is not always sufficient, and much finer details of the bath's dynamics can strongly affect the decoherence process.

id: quant-ph/0406002
title: Proposed experiment of which-way detection by longitudinal momentum transfer in Young's double slit experiment
authors: Masanori Sato
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annales de la Foundation Louis de Broglie, 30, 7, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406002
abstract: The momentum of a photon may reveal the answer to the "which way" problem of Young's double slit experiments. A photon passing through the boundary between two media, in which a photon travels at different velocities, undergoes a momentum change according to the law of conservation of momentum. The momentum of the photon is transferred locally to the medium, and the boundary between the media receives stress, which determines the photon trajectory. An experiment is performed using a crystal plate that can transform the stress to electric charge. We are able to detect the electric charge after the detection of the photon on the screen, and control the sensitivity of photon detection. By means of this proposed experiment it is determined whether or not an attempt to detect the "which way" of photon travel destroys the interference patterns.

id: quant-ph/0406003
title: Q-circuit Tutorial
authors: Bryan Eastin, Steven T. Flammia
comments: Only 6 pages, but with dozens of beautiful circuit diagrams! v2 New measurement gates added (Nielsen & Chuang "meter" style and "D" shape, a la Cleve). Support for centering and inserting in figures and circuit equations added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406003
abstract: Q-circuit is a list of macros that greatly simplifies the construction of quantum circuit diagrams (QCDs) in LaTeX with the help of the Xy-pic package. This tutorial should help the reader acquire the skill to render arbitrary QCDs in a matter of minutes. Q-circuit is available for free at this http URL

id: quant-ph/0406004
title: George Boole and the Bell inequalities
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406004
abstract: As shown by Pitowsky, the Bell inequalities are related to certain classes of probabilistic inequalities dealt with by George Boole, back in the 1850s. Here a short presentation of this relationship is given. Consequently, the Bell inequalities can be obtained without any assumptions of physical nature, and merely through mathematical argument.

id: quant-ph/0406005
title: Quantum Mechanics without amplitudes
authors: J. M. A. Figueiredo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406005
abstract: Amplitudes are the major logical object in Quantum Theory. Despite this fact they presents no physical reality and in consequence only observables can be experimetally checked. We discuss the possibility of a theory of Quantum Probabilities capable of give full account to quantum phenomena. Advanteges of this formulation are the evidence of physical processes not described by the orotodox formulation using amplitudes and the possibility of a full algoritimization of Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0406006
title: Characterization of entanglement of more than two qubits with Bell inequalities and global entanglement
authors: J. Endrejat, H. Buettner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables, revtex 4, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406006
abstract: It is shown that the entanglement-structure of 3- and 4-qubit states can be characterized by optimized operators of the Mermin-Klyshko type. It is possible to discriminate between pure 2-qubit entanglements and higher entanglements. A comparison with a global entanglement measure and the i-concurrence is made.

id: quant-ph/0406007
title: Could Energy Decoherence due to Quantum Gravity be observed?
authors: Christoph Simon, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 052104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406007
abstract: It has recently been proposed that quantum gravity might lead to the decoherence of superpositions in energy, corresponding to a discretization of time at the Planck scale. At first sight the proposal seems amenable to experimental verification with methods from quantum optics and atomic physics. However, we argue that the predicted decoherence is unobservable in such experiments if it acts globally on the whole experimental setup. This is related to the unobservability of the global phase in interference. We also show how local energy decoherence, which acts separately on system and phase reference, could be detected with remarkable sensitivity and over a wide range of length scales by long-distance Ramsey interferometry with metastable atomic states. The sensitivity of the experiments can be further enhanced using multi-atom entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0406008
title: An efficient quantum filter for multiphoton states
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, revised version, accepted for publication in J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52, 1073 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406008
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing a multipartite quantum filter that uses entangled photons as a resource. It is shown that the success probability for the 2-photon parity filter can be as high as 1/2, which is the highest that has so far been predicted without the help of universal two-qubit quantum gates. Furthermore, the required number of ancilla photons is the least of all current parity filter proposals. Remarkably, the quantum filter operates with probability 1/2 even in the N-photon case, irregardless of the number of photons in the input state.

id: quant-ph/0406009
title: Classical and Quantum Ensembles via Multiresolution. I. BBGKY Hierarchy
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, espcrc2.sty, Presented at IX International Workshop on Advanced Computing and Analysis Techniques in Physics Research, Section III "Simulations and Computations in Theoretical Physics and Phenomenology", ACAT 2003, December, 2003, KEK, Tsukuba
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406009
abstract: A fast and efficient numerical-analytical approach is proposed for modeling complex behaviour in the BBGKY hierarchy of kinetic equations. We construct the multiscale representation for hierarchy of reduced distribution functions in the variational approach and multiresolution decomposition in polynomial tensor algebras of high-localized states. Numerical modeling shows the creation of various internal structures from localized modes, which are related to localized or chaotic type of behaviour and the corresponding patterns (waveletons) formation. The localized pattern is a model for energy confinement state (fusion) in plasma.

id: quant-ph/0406010
title: Classical and Quantum Ensembles via Multiresolution. II. Wigner Ensembles
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, espcrc2.sty, Presented at IX International Workshop on Advanced Computing and Analysis Techniques in Physics Research, Section III "Simulations and Computations in Theoretical Physics and Phenomenology", ACAT 2003, December, 2003, KEK, Tsukuba
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406010
abstract: We present the application of the variational-wavelet analysis to the analysis of quantum ensembles in Wigner framework. (Naive) deformation quantization, the multiresolution representations and the variational approach are the key points. We construct the solutions of Wigner-like equations via the multiscale expansions in the generalized coherent states or high-localized nonlinear eigenmodes in the base of the compactly supported wavelets and the wavelet packets. We demonstrate the appearance of (stable) localized patterns (waveletons) and consider entanglement and decoherence as possible applications.

id: quant-ph/0406011
title: Gaussian Dynamics is Classical Dynamics
authors: Salman Habib
comments: 12 pages, no figures; a lot of discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406011
abstract: A direct comparison of quantum and classical dynamical systems can be accomplished through the use of distribution functions. This is useful for both fundamental investigations such as the nature of the quantum-classical transition as well as for applications such as quantum feedback control. By affording a clear separation between kinematical and dynamical quantum effects, the Wigner distribution is particularly valuable in this regard. Here we discuss some consequences of the fact that when closed-system classical and quantum dynamics are treated in Gaussian approximation, they are in fact identical. Thus, it follows that several results in the so-called `semiquantum' chaos actually arise from approximating the classical, and not the quantum dynamics. (Similarly, opposing claims of quantum suppression of chaos are also suspect.) As a simple byproduct of the analysis we are able to show how the Lyapunov exponent appears in the language of phase space distributions in a way that clearly underlines the difference between quantum and classical dynamical situations. We also informally discuss some aspects of approximations that go beyond the Gaussian approximation, such as the issue of when quantum nonlinear dynamical corrections become important compared to nonlinear classical corrections.

id: quant-ph/0406012
title: Casimir Force between a Small Dielectric Sphere and a Dielectric Wall
authors: V. Sopova, L.H. Ford
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 062109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406012
abstract: The possibility of repulsive Casimir forces between small metal spheres and a dielectric half-space is discussed. We treat a model in which the spheres have a dielectric function given by the Drude model, and the radius of the sphere is small compared to the corresponding plasma wavelength. The half-space is also described by the same model, but with a different plasma frequency. We find that in the retarded limit, the force is quasi-oscillatory. This leads to the prediction of stable equilibrium points at which the sphere could levitate in the Earth's gravitational field. This seems to lead to the possibility of an experimental test of the model. The effects of finite temperature on the force are also studied, and found to be rather small at room temperature. However, thermally activated transitions between equilibrium points could be significant at room temperature.

id: quant-ph/0406013
title: Entanglement of electron spins in superconductors
authors: Sangchul Oh, Jaewan Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Physical Review B 71, 144523 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406013
abstract: We investigate entanglement of two electron spins forming Cooper pairs in an s-wave superconductor. The two-electron space-spin density matrix is obtained from the BCS ground state using a two-particle Green's function. It is demonstrated that a two spin state is not given by a spin singlet state but by a Werner state. It is found that the entanglement length, within which two spins are entangled, is not the order of the coherence length but the order of the Fermi wave length.

id: quant-ph/0406014
title: On Counterfactuals and Contextuality
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 10 pages, presented at Foundations of Probability and Physics-3, Vaexjoe University, Sweden, June 7-12, 2004
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 750. Foundations of Probability and Physics-3, ed. by Andrei Khrennikov (American Institute of Physics,Melville, NY, 2005) pp. 351-360.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406014
abstract: Counterfactual reasoning and contextuality is defined and critically evaluated with regard to its nonempirical content. To this end, a uniqueness property of states, explosion views and link observables are introduced. If only a single context associated with a particular maximum set of observables can be operationalized, then a context translation principle resolves measurements of different contexts.

id: quant-ph/0406015
title: Negativity of the Wigner function as an indicator of nonclassicality
authors: Anatole Kenfack, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 396-404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406015
abstract: A measure of nonclassicality of quantum states based on the volume of the negative part of the Wigner function is proposed. We analyze this quantity for Fock states, squeezed displaced Fock states and cat-like states defined as coherent superposition of two Gaussian wave packets.

id: quant-ph/0406016
title: Quantal interferometry with dissipative internal motion
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Slight revision, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052109 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406016
abstract: In presence of dissipation, quantal states may acquire complex-valued phase effects. We suggest a notion of dissipative interferometry that accommodates this complex-valued structure and that may serve as a tool for analyzing the effect of certain kinds of external influences on quantal interference. The concept of mixed-state phase and concomitant gauge invariance is extended to dissipative internal motion. The resulting complex-valued mixed-state interference effects lead to well-known results in the unitary limit and in the case of dissipative motion of pure quantal states. Dissipative interferometry is applied to fault-tolerant geometric quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0406017
title: The equivalence of two approaches to the design of entanglement distillation protocols
authors: Erik Hostens, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406017
abstract: We show the equivalence of two approaches to the design of entanglement distillation protocols. The first approach is based on local unitary operations that yield permutations of tensor products of Bell states. The second approach is based on stabilizer codes.

id: quant-ph/0406018
title: Geometric phase for an adiabatically evolving open quantum system
authors: Ingo Kamleitner, James D. Cresser, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 0 figures
journal: Physical Review A 70, 044103 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406018
abstract: We derive an elegant solution for a two-level system evolving adiabatically under the influence of a driving field with a time-dependent phase, which includes open system effects such as dephasing and spontaneous emission. This solution, which is obtained by working in the representation corresponding to the eigenstates of the time-dependent Hermitian Hamiltonian, enables the dynamic and geometric phases of the evolving density matrix to be separated and relatively easily calculated.

id: quant-ph/0406019
title: Scattering, trapped modes and guided waves in waveguides and diffraction gratings
authors: Valery E. Grikurov
comments: 8 pages, 13 Postscript figures
journal: 1st East-West Workshop on Adv. Tech. in Electromagnetics, Warsaw, May 20-21, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406019
abstract: We suggest the numerical approach to detect eigenfrequencies of trapped modes in waveguides or guided waves in diffraction gratings. At the same time, the approach works perfectly for computation of systems with finitely many scattering channels. The most attractive example concerns the possibility of control on electron transport in nano-dimensions system consisting of a resonator and finitely many adjoined channels due to external variable electric field.

id: quant-ph/0406020
title: A Single Atom Transistor in a 1D Optical Lattice
authors: A. Micheli, A. J. Daley, D. Jaksch, P. Zoller
comments: RevTeX 4, 5 Figures, 4 Pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 140408 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406020
abstract: We propose a scheme utilising a quantum interference phenomenon to switch the transport of atoms in a 1D optical lattice through a site containing an impurity atom. The impurity represents a qubit which in one spin state is transparent to the probe atoms, but in the other acts as a single atom mirror. This allows a single-shot quantum non-demolition measurement of the qubit spin.

id: quant-ph/0406021
title: On extremal quantum states of composite systems with fixed marginals
authors: Oliver Rudolph
comments: 6 pages, to appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: J.Math.Phys. 45 (2004), 4035-4041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406021
abstract: We study the convex set of all bipartite quantum states with fixed marginal states. The extremal states in this set have recently been characterized by Parthasarathy [Ann. Henri Poincar\'e (to appear), quant-ph/0307182, [1]]. Here we present an alternative necessary and sufficient condition for a state with given marginals to be extremal. Our approach is based on a canonical duality between bipartite states and a certain class of completely positive maps and has the advantage that it is easier to check and to construct explicit examples of extremal states. In dimension 2 x 2 we give a simple new proof for the fact that all extremal states with maximally mixed marginals are precisely the projectors onto maximally entangled wave functions. We also prove that in higher dimension this does not hold and construct an explicit example of an extremal state with maximally mixed marginals in dimension 3 x 3 that is not maximally entangled. Generalizations of this result to higher dimensions are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0406022
title: Field Theory reformulated without Self-energy Parts. The dressing Operator
authors: Michel de Haan
comments: 55 pages. Revised version for Annals of Physics. Typos and English corrections, references and precisions added
journal: Annals Phys. 314 (2004) 10-53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406022
abstract: The reformulation of field theory for avoiding self-energy parts in the dynamical evolution has been applied successfully in the framework of the Lee model, [M. de Haan. Ann. Phys., 311, 314-349 (2004)] enabling a kinetic extension of the description. The basic ingredient is the recognition of these self-energy parts. [M. de Haan and C. George. Trends in Statistical Physics 3 (2000), 115] The original reversible description is embedded in the new one and appears now as a restricted class of initial conditions. [M. de Haan and C. George. Prog. Theor. Phys.,109, 881-909 (2003)] This program is realized here in the reduced formalism for a scalar field, interacting with a two-level atom, beyond the usual rotating wave approximation. The kinetic evolution operator, previously surmised, [M. de Haan. Physica, A171 (1991), 159] is here derived from first principles, justifying the usual practice in optics where the common use of the so-called pole approximation should no longer be viewed as an approximation but as an alternative description in the appropriate formalism. That model illustrates how some dressing of the atomic levels (and vertices), through an appropriate operator, finds its place naturally into the new formalism since the bare and dressed ground states do no longer coincide. Moreover, finite velocity for field propagation is now possible in all cases, without the presence of precursors for multiple detections.

id: quant-ph/0406023
title: Non-full rank bound entangled states satisfying the range criterion
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Sibasish Ghosh, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 6 pages, Latex. Minor corrections and additions. More references added. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 71, 012316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406023
abstract: A systematic method for generating bound entangled states in any bipartite system, with ranks ranging from five to full rank, is presented. These states are constructed by mixing separable states with UPB (Unextendible Product Basis) - generated PPT bound entangled states. A subset of this class of PPT bound entangled states, having less than full rank, is shown to satisfy the range criterion [Phys. Lett. A, vol. 232 (1997) 333].

id: quant-ph/0406024
title: Measurement of an integral of a classical field with a single quantum particle
authors: Lev Vaidman, Amir Kalev
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406024
abstract: A method for measuring an integral of a classical field via local interaction of a single quantum particle in a superposition of 2^N states is presented. The method is as efficient as a quantum method with N qubits passing through the field one at a time and it is exponentially better than any known classical method that uses N bits passing through the field one at a time. A related method for searching a string with a quantum particle is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0406025
title: Improved ancilla preparation scheme increases fault-tolerant threshold
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406025
abstract: We demonstrate an improved concatenated encoded ancilla preparation procedure. Simulations show that this procedure significantly increases the error threshold beneath which arbitrarily long quantum computations are possible.

id: quant-ph/0406026
title: Phase-space approach to Berry's phases
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 13 (2006) 67-74
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406026
abstract: We propose a new formula for the adiabatic Berry phase which is based on phase-space formulation of quantum mechanics. This approach sheds a new light into the correspondence between classical and quantum adiabatic phases -- both phases are related with the averaging procedure: Hannay's angle with averaging over the classical torus and Berry's phase with averaging over the entire classical phase space with respect to the corresponding Wigner function. Generalizations to the non-abelian Wilczek--Zee case and mixed states are also included.

id: quant-ph/0406027
title: A relaxationless demonstration of the Quantum Zeno Paradox on an individual atom
authors: Chr. Balzer, Th. Hannemann, D. Rei?, Chr. Wunderlich, W. Neuhauser, P.E.Toschek
comments: 7 pages
journal: Optics Communications Vol. 211, 235-241 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406027
abstract: The driven evolution of the spin of an individual atomic ion on the ground-state hyperfine resonance is impeded by the observation of the ion in one of the pertaining eigenstates. Detection of resonantly scattered light identifies the ion in its upper ``bright'' state. The lower ``dark'' ion state is free of relaxation and correlated with the detector by a null signal. Null events represent the straightforward demonstration of the quantum Zeno paradox. Also, high probability of survival was demonstrated when the ion, driven by a fractionated $\pi $ pulse, was probed {\em and monitored} during the intermissions of the drive, such that the ion's evolution is completely documented.

id: quant-ph/0406028
title: Geometric Dequantization
authors: A. A. Abrikosov Jr, E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 50+1 pages, Latex
journal: Annals Phys. 317 (2005) 24-71
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406028
abstract: Dequantization is a set of rules which turn quantum mechanics (QM) into classical mechanics (CM). It is not the WKB limit of QM. In this paper we show that, by extending time to a 3-dimensional "supertime", we can dequantize the system in the sense of turning the Feynman path integral version of QM into the functional counterpart of the Koopman-von Neumann operatorial approach to CM. Somehow this procedure is the inverse of geometric quantization and we present it in three different polarizations: the Schroedinger, the momentum and the coherent states ones.

id: quant-ph/0406029
title: Coadjoint Orbits, Spin and Dequantization
authors: D. Mauro
comments: 13 pages, Latex, title changed
journal: Phys.Lett. B597 (2004) 94-104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406029
abstract: In this Letter we propose two path integral approaches to describe the classical mechanics of spinning particles. We show how these formulations can be derived from the associated quantum ones via a sort of geometrical dequantization procedure proposed in a previous paper.

id: quant-ph/0406030
title: Degaussification of twin-beam and nonlocality in the phase space
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 70, 032112 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406030
abstract: We show that inconclusive photon subtraction (IPS) on twin-beam produces non-Gaussian states that violate Bell's inequality in the phase-space. The violation is larger than for the twin-beam itself irrespective of the IPS quantum efficiency. The explicit expression of IPS map is given both for the density matrix and the Wigner function representations.

id: quant-ph/0406031
title: Sub-shot-noise heterodyne polarimetry
authors: Sheng Feng, Olivier Pfister
comments: 3 pages, 2 figs, some clarifications and one reference added
journal: Opt. Lett. 29, 2800 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406031
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a heterodyne polarization rotation measurement with a noise floor 4.8 dB below the optical shot noise, by use of the classically phase-locked quantum twin beams emitted above threshold by an ultrastable type-II Na:KTP CW optical parametric oscillator. We believe this is the largest noise reduction achieved to date on optical phase-difference measurements.

id: quant-ph/0406032
title: Quantum measurements and finite geometry
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 18 pages; for a festschrift honoring Asher Peres; minor corrections and added references in v2 and v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406032
abstract: A complete set of mutually unbiased bases for a Hilbert space of dimension N is analogous in some respects to a certain finite geometric structure, namely, an affine plane. Another kind of quantum measurement, known as a symmetric informationally complete positive-operator-valued measure, is, remarkably, also analogous to an affine plane, but with the roles of points and lines interchanged. In this paper I present these analogies and ask whether they shed any light on the existence or non-existence of such symmetric quantum measurements for a general quantum system with a finite-dimensional state space.

id: quant-ph/0406033
title: Relativistic Aharonov--Bohm effect in the presence of two-dimensional Coulomb potential
authors: Vladislav Khalilov
comments: Revtex4, 7 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406033
abstract: We obtain exact solutions to the Dirac equation and the relevant binding energies in the combined Aharonov--Bohm--Coulomb potential in 2+1 dimensions. By means of solutions obtained the quantum Aharonov--Bohm effect is studied for free and bound electron states. We show that the total scattering amplitude in the combined Aharonov--Bohm--Coulomb potential is a sum of the Aharonov--Bohm and the Coulomb scattering amplitudes. This modifies expression for the standard Aharonov--Bohm cross section due to the interference these two amplitudes with each other.

id: quant-ph/0406034
title: Photon Statistics of a Non-Stationary Periodically Driven Single-Photon Source
authors: M. Hennrich, T. Legero, A. Kuhn, G. Rempe
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 6, 86 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406034
abstract: We investigate the photon statistics of a single-photon source that operates under non-stationary conditions. The photons are emitted by shining a periodic sequence of laser pulses on single atoms falling randomly through a high-finesse optical cavity. Strong antibunching is found in the intensity correlation of the emitted light, demonstrating that a single atom emits photons one-by-one. However, the number of atoms interacting with the cavity follows a Poissonian statistics so that, on average, no sub-Poissonian photon statistics is obtained, unless the measurement is conditioned on the presence of single atoms.

id: quant-ph/0406035
title: Transition from antibunching to bunching in cavity QED
authors: M. Hennrich, A. Kuhn, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 94:053604, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406035
abstract: The photon statistics of the light emitted from an atomic ensemble into a single field mode of an optical cavity is investigated as a function of the number of atoms. The light is produced in a Raman transition driven by a pump laser and the cavity vacuum [M.Hennrich et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4672 (2000)], and a recycling laser is employed to repeat this process continuously. For weak driving, a smooth transition from antibunching to bunching is found for about one intra-cavity atom. Remarkably, the bunching peak develops within the antibunching dip. For saturated driving and a growing number of atoms, the bunching amplitude decreases and the bunching duration increases, indicating the onset of Raman lasing.

id: quant-ph/0406036
title: A new general approximation scheme(NGAS) in quantum theory:application to the anharmonic- and double well oscillators
authors: B.P.Mahapatra, N.Santi, N.B.Pradhan
comments: 41 Pages, 1 Figure, pdf-format
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A20:2687-2714,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406036
abstract: A new scheme of approximation in quantum theory is proposed which is potentially applicable to arbtrary interacting systems. The method consists in in approximating the original Hamiltonian by one corresponding to a suitable exactly solvable system (with interaction) such that the "quantum average" of both are equal, thus forcing self-consistency.The method transcends the limitations of the variational method and the perturbation theory.The results are systematically improvable by the construction of a improved perturbation theory (IPT) which automatically satisfies the condition of convergence. Uniformly accurate results are obtained for the case of the quartic-,sextic- and octic anharmonic oscillators as well as the quartic and sextic double well oscillators. The leading order results reproduce earlier results by different methods using different input assumptions.The results for the sextic oscillators agree well with exact prediction of supersymmetry. We also discuss the stability and structure of the effective vacuum state of the approximation.

id: quant-ph/0406037
title: Interference Phenomena in Spontaneous Emission from Driven Multilevel Atoms
authors: V.O.Chaltykyan, A.D. Gazazyan, Y.T.Pashayan
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406037
abstract: We study spontaneous emission from an atom under the action of laser fields. We consider two different energy level diagrams. The first one consists of two levels resonantly driven by laser radiation where either of levels may decay to a separate level. For such a system we show that the presence of the second decay channel may deteriorate the destructive interference occurring in case of one decay channel because of Autler-Townes effect. The second diagram represents two two-level resonantly driven systems with the upper levels decaying to a common level. For this diagram we show that there is no interference between the two decay channels when the laser fields are described in the Fock representation, while in case of definite-phase classical fields such interference takes place and is partially or completely destructive or constructive depending on the initial conditions and on the mutual orientation of the spontaneous emission dipole moments.

id: quant-ph/0406038
title: Exact solutions of the isoholonomic problem and the optimal control problem in holonomic quantum computation
authors: Shogo Tanimura, Mikio Nakahara, Daisuke Hayashi
comments: 19 pages, no figures, LaTeX2e
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46 (2005) 022101, 1-15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406038
abstract: The isoholonomic problem in a homogeneous bundle is formulated and solved exactly. The problem takes a form of a boundary value problem of a variational equation. The solution is applied to the optimal control problem in holonomic quantum computer. We provide a prescription to construct an optimal controller for an arbitrary unitary gate and apply it to a $ k $-dimensional unitary gate which operates on an $ N $-dimensional Hilbert space with $ N \geq 2k $. Our construction is applied to several important unitary gates such as the Hadamard gate, the CNOT gate, and the two-qubit discrete Fourier transformation gate. Controllers for these gates are explicitly constructed.

id: quant-ph/0406039
title: Stroboscopic quantum walks
authors: O. Buerschaper, K. Burnett
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406039
abstract: Discrete time (coined) quantum walks are produced by the repeated application of a constant unitary transformation to a quantum system. By recasting these walks into the setting of periodic perturbations to an otherwise freely evolving system we introduce the concept of a stroboscopic quantum walk. Through numerical simulation, we establish the link between families of stroboscopic walks and quantum resonances. These are observed in the nonlinear systems of quantum chaos theory such as the delta-kicked rotator or the delta-kicked accelerator.

id: quant-ph/0406040
title: Macroscopic Thermodynamical Witnesses of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Caslav Brukner, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406040
abstract: We show that macroscopic thermodynamical properties - such as functions of internal energy and magnetization - can detect quantum entanglement in solids at nonzero temperatures in the thermodynamical limit. We identify the parameter regions (critical values of magnetic field and temperature) within which entanglement is witnessed by these thermodynamical quantities.

id: quant-ph/0406041
title: Casimir Effects: An Optical Approach I. Foundations and Examples
authors: A. Scardicchio, R. L. Jaffe
comments: Minor corrections. Submitted to Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys. B704 (2005) 552-582
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406041
abstract: We present the foundations of a new approach to the Casimir effect based on classical ray optics. We show that a very useful approximation to the Casimir force between arbitrarily shaped smooth conductors can be obtained from knowledge of the paths of light rays that originate at points between these bodies and close on themselves. Although an approximation, the optical method is exact for flat bodies, and is surprisingly accurate and versatile. In this paper we present a self-contained derivation of our approximation, discuss its range of validity and possible improvements, and work out three examples in detail. The results are in excellent agreement with recent precise numerical analysis for the experimentally interesting configuration of a sphere opposite an infinite plane.

id: quant-ph/0406042
title: Complete Correlation, Detection loophole and Bell's Theorem
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Mehdi Golshani
comments: 15 pages, 2 tables, no figure. Last version, to appear in Fortschritte der Physik
journal: A. Shafiee and M. Golshani, Fortschritte der Physik, 53, 105, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406042
abstract: Two new formulations of Bell's theorem are given here. First, we consider a definite set of two entangled photons with only two polarization directions, for which Bell's locality assumption is violated for the case of perfect correlation. Then, using a different approach, we prove an efficient Bell-type inequality which is violated by some quantum mechanical predictions, independent of the efficiency factors.

id: quant-ph/0406043
title: Soliton Atom Laser with Quantum State Transfer Property
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406043
abstract: We propose a scheme to obtain soliton atom laser with nonclassical atoms based on quantum state transfer process from light to matter waves in nonlinear case, which may find novel applications in, e.g., an atom interferometer. The dynamics of the atomic gray solitons and the accompanied frequency chirp effect are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0406044
title: Implementation of NMR quantum computation with para-hydrogen derived high purity quantum states
authors: M. S. Anwar, J. A. Jones, D. Blazina, S. B. Duckett, H. A. Carteret
comments: 7 pages RevTex including 6 figures. Figures 4-6 are low quality to save space. Submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032324 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406044
abstract: We demonstrate the first implementation of a quantum algorithm on a liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer using almost pure states. This was achieved using a two qubit device where the initial state is an almost pure singlet nuclear spin state of a pair of 1H nuclei arising from a chemical reaction involving para-hydrogen. We have implemented Deutsch's algorithm for distinguishing between constant and balanced functions with a single query.

id: quant-ph/0406045
title: Bohmian transmission and reflection dwell times without trajectory sampling
authors: Sabine Kreidl
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures; v2: published version, significantly revised and shortened (former sections 2 and 3 omitted, appendix A added, simplified mathematics)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 5293-5303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406045
abstract: Within the framework of Bohmian mechanics dwell times find a straightforward formulation. The computation of associated probabilities and distributions however needs the explicit knowledge of a relevant sample of trajectories and therefore implies formidable numerical effort. Here a trajectory free formulation for the average transmission and reflection dwell times within static spatial intervals [a,b] is given for one-dimensional scattering problems. This formulation reduces the computation time to less than 5% of the computation time by means of trajectory sampling.

id: quant-ph/0406046
title: The hidden subgroup problem and permutation group theory
authors: Julia Kempe, Aner Shalev
comments: 12 pages
journal: Proc. 16th ACM-SIAM SODA, p. 1118-1125 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406046
abstract: We employ concepts and tools from the theory of finite permutation groups in order to analyse the Hidden Subgroup Problem via Quantum Fourier Sampling (QFS) for the symmetric group. We show that under very general conditions both the weak and the random-strong form (strong form with random choices of basis) of QFS fail to provide any advantage over classical exhaustive search. In particular we give a complete characterisation of polynomial size subgroups, and of primitive subgroups, that can be distinguished from the identity subgroup with the above methods. Furthermore, assuming a plausible group theoretic conjecture for which we give supporting evidence, we show that weak and random-strong QFS for the symmetric group have no advantage whatsoever over classical search.

id: quant-ph/0406047
title: Multiphoton entanglement through a Bell multiport beam splitter
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, carefully revised version, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062311 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406047
abstract: Multiphoton entanglement is an important resource for linear optics quantum computing. Here we show that a wide range of highly entangled multiphoton states, including W-states, can be prepared by interfering single photons inside a Bell multiport beam splitter and using postselection. A successful state preparation is indicated by the collection of one photon per output port. An advantage of the Bell multiport beam splitter is that it redirects the photons without changing their inner degrees of freedom. The described setup can therefore be used to generate polarisation, time-bin and frequency multiphoton entanglement, even when using only a single photon source.

id: quant-ph/0406048
title: Experimental Bell Inequality Violation with an Atom and a Photon
authors: D. L. Moehring, M. J. Madsen, B. B. Blinov, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 090410 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406048
abstract: We report the measurement of a Bell inequality violation with a single atom and a single photon prepared in a probabilistic entangled state. This is the first demonstration of such a violation with particles of different species. The entanglement characterization of this hybrid system may also be useful in quantum information applications.

id: quant-ph/0406049
title: Entangling flux qubits with a bipolar dynamic inductance
authors: B. L. T. Plourde, J. Zhang, K. B. Whaley, F. K. Wilhelm, T. L. Robertson, T. Hime, S. Linzen, P. A. Reichardt, C.-E. Wu, John Clarke
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406049
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement variable coupling between two flux qubits using the screening current response of a dc Superconducting QUantum Interference Device (SQUID). The coupling strength is adjusted by the current bias applied to the SQUID and can be varied continuously from positive to negative values, allowing cancellation of the direct mutual inductance between the qubits. We show that this variable coupling scheme permits efficient realization of universal quantum logic. The same SQUID can be used to determine the flux states of the qubits.

id: quant-ph/0406050
title: Temporal Dynamics of Photon Pairs Generated by an Atomic Ensemble
authors: S.V. Polyakov, C.W. Chou, D. Felinto, H.J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406050
abstract: The time dependence of nonclassical correlations is investigated for two fields (1,2) generated by an ensemble of cold Cesium atoms via the protocol of Duan et al. [Nature Vol. 414, p. 413 (2001)]. The correlation function R(t1,t2) for the ratio of cross to auto-correlations for the (1,2) fields at times (t1,t2) is found to have a maximum value Rmax=292(+-)57, which significantly violates the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality R<=1 for classical fields. Decoherence of quantum correlations is observed over 175 ns, and is described by our model, as is a new scheme to mitigate this effect.

id: quant-ph/0406051
title: Violation of time symmetry
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: Journal of Mathematical Physics, (2008), (accepted for publication)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406051
abstract: Recently, [{arXiv:0810.3134}] is accepted and published. We would like to study the relation between a local realistic theory and commutativity of observables in a finite-dimensional space. We would like to conjecture that a realistic theory of the Bell type (a local realistic theory) for events would not imply the commutative algebraic structure into the set of all observables if all experimental events would be reproduced by a local realistic theory. We would like to suggest that a violation of Bell locality would be derived within a realistic theory of the Kochen-Specker type within quantum events.

id: quant-ph/0406052
title: Generalized master equation with nonhermitian operators
authors: C. F. Huang, K.-N. Huang
comments: 17 pages
journal: Chinese J. Phys. 42, 221 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406052
abstract: By extending the mean-field Hamiltonian to include nonhermitian operators, the master equations for fermions and bosons can be derived. The derived equations reduce to the Markoff master equation in the low-density limit and to the quasiclassical master equation for homogeneuos systems.

id: quant-ph/0406053
title: Quantification and scaling of multipartite entanglement in continuous variable systems
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 220504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406053
abstract: We present a theoretical method to determine the multipartite entanglement between different partitions of multimode, fully or partially symmetric Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. For such states, we determine the exact expression of the logarithmic negativity and show that it coincides with that of equivalent two--mode Gaussian states. Exploiting this reduction, we demonstrate the scaling of the multipartite entanglement with the number of modes and its reliable experimental estimate by direct measurements of the global and local purities.

id: quant-ph/0406054
title: Incompleteness of trajectory-based interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: Latex, 13 pages, no figures, refs and clarifications added, to appear in J Phys A
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) 9549 (www.iop.org)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406054
abstract: Trajectory-based approaches to quantum mechanics include the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation and Nelson's stochastic interpretation. It is shown that the usual route to establishing the validity of such interpretations, via a decomposition of the Schroedinger equation into a continuity equation and a modified Hamilton-Jacobi equation, fails for some quantum states. A very simple example is provided by a quantum particle in a box, described by a wavefunction initially uniform over the interior of the box. For this example there is no corresponding continuity or modified Hamilton-Jacobi equation, and the spacetime dependence of the wavefunction has a known fractal structure. Examples with finite average energies are also constructed.

id: quant-ph/0406055
title: Stochastic Schrodinger equations as limit of discrete filtering
authors: John Gough, Andrei Sobolev
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 11: 1-21, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406055
abstract: We consider an open model possessing a Markovian quantum stochastic limit and derive the limit stochastic Schrodinger equations for the wave function conditioned on indirect observations using only the von Neumann projection postulate. We show that the diffusion (Gaussian) situation is universal as a result of the central limit theorem with the quantum jump (Poissonian) situation being an exceptional case. It is shown that, starting from the correponding limiting open systems dynamics, the theory of quantum filtering leads to the same equations, therefore establishing consistency of the quantum stochastic approach for limiting Markovian models.

id: quant-ph/0406056
title: On the classical-quantum correspondence for the scattering dwell time
authors: Caio H. Lewenkopf, Raul O. Vallejos
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406056
abstract: Using results from the theory of dynamical systems, we derive a general expression for the classical average scattering dwell time, tau_av. Remarkably, tau_av depends only on a ratio of phase space volumes. We further show that, for a wide class of systems, the average classical dwell time is not in correspondence with the energy average of the quantum Wigner time delay.

id: quant-ph/0406057
title: Quantum Dynamics of a Particle with a Spin-dependent Velocity
authors: Claude Aslangul
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406057
abstract: We study the dynamics of a particle in continuous time and space, the displacement of which is governed by an internal degree of freedom (spin). In one definite limit, the so-called quantum random walk is recovered but, although quite simple, the model possesses a rich variety of dynamics and goes far beyond this problem. Generally speaking, our framework can describe the motion of an electron in a magnetic sea near the Fermi level when linearisation of the dispersion law is possible, coupled to a transverse magnetic field. Quite unexpected behaviours are obtained. In particular, we find that when the initial wave packet is fully localized in space, the $J_{z}$ angular momentum component is frozen; this is an interesting example of an observable which, although it is not a constant of motion, has a constant expectation value. For a non-completely localized wave packet, the effect still occurs although less pronounced, and the spin keeps for ever memory of its initial state. Generally speaking, as time goes on, the spatial density profile looks rather complex, as a consequence of the competition between drift and precession, and displays various shapes according to the ratio between the Larmor period and the characteristic time of flight. The density profile gradually changes from a multimodal quickly moving distribution when the scatttering rate is small, to a unimodal standing but flattening distribution in the opposite cas case.

id: quant-ph/0406058
title: Preparation of macroscopic quantum superposition states of a cavity field via coupling to a superconducting charge qubit
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 063820 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406058
abstract: We propose how to generate macroscopic quantum superposition states using a microwave cavity containing a superconducting charge qubit. Based on the measurement of charge states, we show that the superpositions of two macroscopically distinguishable coherent states of a single-mode cavity field can be generated by a controllable interaction between a cavity field and a charge qubit. After such superpositions of the cavity field are created, the interaction can be switched off by the classical magnetic field, and there is no information transfer between the cavity field and the charge qubit. We also discuss the generation of the superpositions of two squeezed coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0406059
title: Photon-induced entanglement of distant mesoscopic SQUID rings
authors: A. Vourdas, D.I. Tsomokos, C.C. Chong
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; Kluwer Academic Proceedings; presented in IV international workshop on "Macroscopic Quantum Coherence and Computing" (Napoli, Italy, 2004)
journal: "Quantum Computing in Solid State Systems", Springer New York (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406059
abstract: An experiment that involves two distant mesoscopic SQUID rings is studied. The superconducting rings are irradiated with correlated photons, which are produced by a single microwave source. Classically correlated (separable) and quantum mechanically correlated (entangled) microwaves are considered, and their effect on the Josephson currents is quantified. It is shown that the currents tunnelling through the Josephson junctions in the distant rings, are correlated.

id: quant-ph/0406060
title: Casimir force between eccentric cylinders
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Roberto Onofrio
comments: To be published in Europhysics Letters. 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters, Vol. 67, Number 4, 517-523 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406060
abstract: We consider the Casimir interaction between a cylinder and a hollow cylinder, both conducting, with parallel axis and slightly different radii. The Casimir force, which vanishes in the coaxial situation, is evaluated for both small and large eccentricities using the proximity approximation. The cylindrical configuration offers various experimental advantages with respect to the parallel planes or the plane-sphere geometries, leading to favourable conditions for the search of extra-gravitational forces in the micrometer range and for the observation of finite temperature corrections.

id: quant-ph/0406061
title: Entanglement Witnesses in Spin Models
authors: Geza Toth
comments: 5 pages including 3 figures, revtex4; some typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A 71, 010301(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406061
abstract: We construct entanglement witnesses using fundamental quantum operators of spin models which contain two-particle interactions and posses a certain symmetry. By choosing the Hamiltonian as such an operator, our method can be used for detecting entanglement by energy measurement. We apply this method to the cubic Heisenberg lattice model in a magnetic field, the XY model and other familiar spin systems. Our method is used to obtain a temperature bound for separable states for systems in thermal equilibrium. We also study the Bose-Hubbard model and relate its energy minimum for separable states to the minimum obtained from the Gutzwiller ansatz.

id: quant-ph/0406062
title: Stochastic Quantization of the Time-Dependent Harmonic Oscillator
authors: F. Haas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406062
abstract: We extend the stochastic quantization method recently developed by Haba and Kleinert to non-autonomous mechanical systems, in the case of the time-dependent harmonic oscillator. In comparison with the autonomous case, the quantization procedure involves the solution of a nonlinear, auxiliary equation.

id: quant-ph/0406063
title: Probabilities of failure for quantum error correction
authors: A. J. Scott
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures. Quantum Inf. Process., to appear
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 4, 399 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406063
abstract: We investigate the performance of a quantum error-correcting code when pushed beyond its intended capacity to protect information against errors, presenting formulae for the probability of failure when the errors affect more qudits than that specified by the code's minimum distance. Such formulae provide a means to rank different codes of the same minimum distance. We consider both error detection and error correction, treating explicit examples in the case of stabilizer codes constructed from qubits and encoding a single qubit.

id: quant-ph/0406064
title: Stability of global entanglement in thermal states of spin chains
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Stephen S. Bullock
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. v.2 includes minor corrections and an added section treating the quantum XX model with open boundaries
journal: Physical Review A, 70, 052303 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406064
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of a one dimensional chain of spin qubits coupled via nearest neighbor interactions. The entanglement measure used is the n-concurrence, which is distinct from other measures on spin chains such as bipartite entanglement in that it can quantify "global" entanglement across the spin chain. Specifically, it computes the overlap of a quantum state with its time-reversed state. As such this measure is well suited to study ground states of spin chain Hamiltonians that are intrinsically time reversal symmetric. We study the robustness of n-concurrence of ground states when the interaction is subject to a time reversal antisymmetric magnetic field perturbation. The n-concurrence in the ground state of the isotropic XX model is computed and it is shown that there is a critical magnetic field strength at which the entanglement experiences a jump discontinuity from the maximum value to zero. The n-concurrence for thermal mixed states is derived and a threshold temperature is computed below which the system has non zero entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0406065
title: Multiplicativity of maximal output purities of Gaussian channels under Gaussian inputs
authors: A. Serafini, J. Eisert, M.M. Wolf
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406065
abstract: We address the question of the multiplicativity of the maximal p-norm output purities of bosonic Gaussian channels under Gaussian inputs. We focus on general Gaussian channels resulting from the reduction of unitary dynamics in larger Hilbert spaces. It is shown that the maximal output purity of tensor products of single-mode channels under Gaussian inputs is multiplicative for any p>1 for products of arbitrary identical channels as well as for a large class of products of different channels. In the case of p=2 multiplicativity is shown to be true for arbitrary products of generic channels acting on any number of modes.

id: quant-ph/0406066
title: Simple quantum model for light depolarization
authors: A. B. Klimov, J. L. Romero, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: Improved version. Accepted for publication in the Journal of the Optical Society of America B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 23, 126 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406066
abstract: Depolarization of quantum fields is handled through a master equation of the Lindblad type. The specific feature of the proposed model is that it couples dispersively the field modes to a randomly distributed atomic reservoir, much in the classical spirit of dealing with this problem. The depolarizing dynamics resulting from this model is analyzed for relevant states.

id: quant-ph/0406067
title: Entanglement in a Valence-Bond-Solid State
authors: Heng Fan, Vladimir Korepin, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 4pages, no figures
journal: PRL, vol 93, issue 22, 227203, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406067
abstract: We study entanglement in Valence-Bond-Solid state. It describes the ground state of Affleck, Kennedy, Lieb and Tasaki quantum spin chain. The AKLT model has a gap and open boundary conditions. We calculate an entropy of a subsystem (continuous block of spins). It quantifies the entanglement of this block with the rest of the ground state. We prove that the entanglement approaches a constant value exponentially fast as the size of the subsystem increases. Actually we proved that the density matrix of the continuous block of spins depends only on the length of the block, but not on the total size of the chain [distance to the ends also not essential]. We also study reduced density matrices of two spins both in the bulk and on the boundary. We evaluated concurrencies.

id: quant-ph/0406068
title: Lower entropy bounds and particle number fluctuations in a Fermi sea
authors: Israel Klich
comments: shorter version, typos fixed
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) L85-L92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406068
abstract: We demonstrate, in an elementary manner, that given a partition of the single particle Hilbert space into orthogonal subspaces, a Fermi sea may be factored into pairs of entangled modes, similar to a BCS state. We derive expressions for the entropy and for the particle number fluctuations of a subspace of a fermi sea, at zero and finite temperatures, and relate these by a lower bound on the entropy. As an application we investigate analytically and numerically these quantities for electrons in the lowest Landau level of a quantum Hall sample.

id: quant-ph/0406069
title: Exact norm-conserving stochastic time-dependent Hartree-Fock
authors: L. Tessieri, J. Wilkie, M. Cetinbas
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX file
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., vol. 38, pag. 943-956 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406069
abstract: We derive an exact single-body decomposition of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation for N pairwise-interacting fermions. Each fermion obeys a stochastic time-dependent norm-preserving wave equation. As a first test of the method we calculate the low energy spectrum of Helium. An extension of the method to bosons is outlined.

id: quant-ph/0406070
title: Optimal estimation of one parameter quantum channels
authors: Mohan Sarovar, G. J. Milburn
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 8487-8505
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406070
abstract: We explore the task of optimal quantum channel identification, and in particular the estimation of a general one parameter quantum process. We derive new characterizations of optimality and apply the results to several examples including the qubit depolarizing channel and the harmonic oscillator damping channel. We also discuss the geometry of the problem and illustrate the usefulness of using entanglement in process estimation.

id: quant-ph/0406071
title: Aperiodic Quantum Random Walks
authors: Pedro Ribeiro, Perola Milman, Remy Mosseri
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406071
abstract: We generalize the quantum random walk protocol for a particle in a one-dimensional chain, by using several types of biased quantum coins, arranged in aperiodic sequences, in a manner that leads to a rich variety of possible wave function evolutions. Quasiperiodic sequences, following the Fibonacci prescription, are of particular interest, leading to a sub-ballistic wavefunction spreading. In contrast, random sequences leads to diffusive spreading, similar to the classical random walk behaviour. We also describe how to experimentally implement these aperiodic sequences.

id: quant-ph/0406072
title: Convergence of coined quantum walks on d-dimensional Euclidean space
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Svante Janson, Petra F. Scudo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406072
abstract: Coined quantum walks may be interpreted as the motion in position space of a quantum particle with a spin degree of freedom; the dynamics are determined by iterating a unitary transformation which is the product of a spin transformation and a translation conditional on the spin state. Coined quantum walks on the d-dimensional lattice can be treated as special cases of coined quantum walks on d-dimensional Euclidean space. We study quantum walks on d-dimensional Euclidean space and prove that the sequence of rescaled probability distributions in position space associated to the unitary evolution of the particle converges to a limit distribution.

id: quant-ph/0406073
title: Quantum computation in optical lattices via global laser addressing
authors: Alastair Kay, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, REVTEX. Initialisation and measurement procedures are added
journal: New J. Phys. 6 126 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406073
abstract: A scheme for globally addressing a quantum computer is presented along with its realisation in an optical lattice setup of one, two or three dimensions. The required resources are mainly those necessary for performing quantum simulations of spin systems with optical lattices, circumventing the necessity for single qubit addressing. We present the control procedures, in terms of laser manipulations, required to realise universal quantum computation. Error avoidance with the help of the quantum Zeno effect is presented and a scheme for globally addressed error correction is given. The latter does not require measurements during the computation, facilitating its experimental implementation. As an illustrative example, the pulse sequence for the factorisation of the number fifteen is given.

id: quant-ph/0406074
title: A numerical study of the spectrum and eigenfunctions on a tubular arc
authors: Lonnie Mott, Mario Encinosa, Babak Etemadi
comments: 14 pages, 5 tables, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406074
abstract: The Hamiltonian for a particle constrained to move on the surface of a curved nanotube is derived using the methods of differential forms. A two-dimensional Gram-Schmidt orthonormalization procedure is employed to calculate basis functions for determining the eigenvalues and eigenstates of a tubular arc (a nanotube in the shape of a hyperbolic cosine) with several hundred scattering centers. The curvature of the tube is shown to induce bound states that are dependent on the curvature parameters and bend location of the tube.

id: quant-ph/0406075
title: Symmetric Triple Well with Non-Equivalent Vacua: Simple Quantum Mechanical Approach
authors: H. A. Alhendi, E. I. Lashin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406075
abstract: The structure of the energy levels in a deep triple well is analyzed using simple quantum mechanical considerations. The resultant spectra of the first three energy levels are found to be composed of a ground state localized at the central well and the two other states are distributed only among the left and right well in anti-symmetric and symmetric way respectively. Due to the tunneling effects the energy eigenvalue of the ground state is approximately equal to the ground state energy for a harmonic oscillator localized at the central well, while the two others are nearly degenerate with approximate values equal to the ground state energy of a harmonic oscillator localized at the left or right well. The resulting pattern of the spectra are confirmed numerically. The failure of the instantonic approach recently applied for predicting the correct spectra is commented

id: quant-ph/0406076
title: Resonances for coupled Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: H. L. Haroutyunyan, G. Nienhuis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406076
abstract: We study some effects arising from periodic modulation of the asymmetry and the barrier height of a two-well potential containing a Bose-Einstein condensate. At certain modulation frequencies the system exhibits resonances, which may lead to enhancement of the tunneling rate between the wells and which can be used to control the particle distribution among the wells. Some of the effects predicted for a two-well system can be carried over to the case of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice.

id: quant-ph/0406077
title: On the realization of Bell observables
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 9 pages, elsart, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 329/3 pp 188-192 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406077
abstract: We show how Bell observables on a bipartite quantum system can be obtained by local observables via a controlled-unitary transformation. For continuous variables this result holds for the Bell observable corresponding to the non-conventional heterodyne measurement on two radiation modes, which is connected through a 50-50 beam-splitter to two local observables given by single-mode homodyne measurements. A simple scheme for a controlled-unitary transformation of continuous variables is also presented, which needs only two squeezers, a parametric downconverter and two beam splitters.

id: quant-ph/0406078
title: Fermionic concurrence in the extended Hubbard dimer
authors: Shu-Sa Deng, Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 22, 804 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406078
abstract: In this paper, we introduce and study the fermionic concurrence in a two-site extended Hubbard model. Its behaviors both at the ground state and finite temperatures as function of Coulomb interaction $U$ (on-site) and $V$ (nearest-neighbor) are obtained analytically and numerically. We also investigate the change of the concurrence under a nonuniform field, including local potential and magnetic field, and find that the concurrence can be modulated by these fields.

id: quant-ph/0406079
title: Quantum mechanics as kinetics
authors: L.V. Prokhorov
comments: minor changes, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406079
abstract: Relations between Hamiltonian mechanics and quantum mechanics are studied. It is stressed that classical mechanics possesses all the specific features of quantum theory: operators, complex variables, probabilities (in case of ergodic systems). The Planck constant and the Fock space appear after putting a dynamical system in a thermal bath. For harmonic oscillator in a thermal bath, the probability amplitudes can be identified with the complex valued phase functions $f(q+ip)$ describing small deviations from the equilibrium state, when the time of relaxation is large. A chain of such oscillators models both the one-dimensional space (or string), and one-dimensional quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0406080
title: Method of convex rigid frames and applications in studies of multipartite quNit pure-states
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L41-L48
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406080
abstract: In this Letter we suggest a method of convex rigid frames in the studies of the multipartite quNit pure-states. We illustrate what are the convex rigid frames and what is the method of convex rigid frames. As the applications we use this method to solve some basic problems and give some new results (three theorems): The problem of the partial separability of the multipartite quNit pure-states and its geometric explanation; The problem of the classification of the multipartite quNit pure-states, and give a perfect explanation of the local unitary transformations; Thirdly, we discuss the invariants of classes and give a possible physical explanation.

id: quant-ph/0406081
title: Steady state entanglement of two atoms created by classical driving field
authors: Ozgur Cakir, Alexander A Klyachko, Alexander S Shumovsky
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406081
abstract: The stabilization of steady state entanglement caused by action of a classical driving field in the system of two-level atoms with the dipole interaction accompanied by spontaneous emission is discussed. An exact solution shows that the maximum amount of concurrence that can be achieved in Lamb-Dicke limit is 0.43, which corresponds to the entanglement $\mathcal{E}_{max}=0.285$ ebit. Dependence of entanglement on interatomic distance and classical driving field is examined numerically.

id: quant-ph/0406082
title: Deterministic secure direct communication using GHZ states and swapping quantum entanglement
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 38 (2005) 5761-5770
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406082
abstract: We present a deterministic secure direct communication scheme via entanglement swapping, where a set of ordered maximally entangled three-particle states (GHZ states), initially shared by three spatially separated parties, Alice, Bob and Charlie, functions as a quantum information channel. After ensuring the safety of the quantum channel, Alice and Bob apply a series local operations on their respective particles according to the tripartite stipulation and the secret message they both want to send to Charlie. By three Alice, Bob and Charlie's Bell measurement results, Charlie is able to infer the secret messages directly. The secret messages are faithfully transmitted from Alice and Bob to Charlie via initially shared pairs of GHZ states without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper. Since there is not a transmission of the qubits carrying the secret message between any two of them in the public channel, it is completely secure for direct secret communication if perfect quantum channel is used.

id: quant-ph/0406083
title: Quantum secure direct communication by Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs and entanglement swapping
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Il Nuovo Cimento, 119B (2004) 313
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406083
abstract: We present a quantum secure direct communication scheme achieved by swapping quantum entanglement. In this scheme a set of ordered Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs is used as a quantum information channel for sending secret messages directly. After insuring the safety of the quantum channel, the sender Alice encodes the secret messages directly by applying a series local operations on her particles sequence according to their stipulation. Using three EPR pairs, three bits of secret classical information can be faithfully transmitted from Alice to remote Bob without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper. By both Alice and Bob's GHZ state measurement results, Bob is able to read out the encoded secret messages directly. The protocol is completely secure if perfect quantum channel is used, because there is not a transmission of the qubits carrying the secret message between Alice and Bob in the public channel.

id: quant-ph/0406084
title: Bremsstrahlung from Charged Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406084
abstract: Low energy bremsstrahlung formulae are derived for a particle beam of charged bosons forming a Bose-Einsten condensate. The expression for energy radiated consists of two terms in this case. One of them, the larger one in the limit of large numbers of Bosons in the state, is proportional to the number of bosons squared and has the same form as one obtains in a hydrodynamic model of quantum wave mechanics. This term is sensitive to the size and shape of the wave packet especially when the force field causing acceleration is localized in extent. The second term, identical to the single particle scattering formula, is less sensitive to the wave packet size and shape and is proportional to the number of bosons in the condensate. The conclusion is that for a Bose-Einstein condensate the radiated bremsstrahlung is a sensitive function of the wave packet shape which is quite different than for a beam of incoherent particles which do not show very much dependence on the wave packet. Only lowest order radiation is calculated. It is also found that to lowest order there does not exist any situation in which the radiation loss from a coherent state of bosons vanishes completely, so that there is no analog of superconductivity in a particle beam of this type at least within the net of assumptions made in this paper. The amount of radiation can be greatly suppressed however, as it is a sensitive function of the form of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0406085
title: P-wave Feshbach resonances of ultra-cold $^6$Li
authors: J. Zhang, E.G.M. Van Kempen, T. Bourdel, L. Khaykovich, J. Cubizolles, F. Chevy, M. Teichmann, L. Tarruell, S.J.J.M.F. Kokkelmans, C. Salomon
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406085
abstract: We report the observation of three p-wave Feshbach resonances of $^6$Li atoms in the lowest hyperfine state $f=1/2$. The positions of the resonances are in good agreement with theory. We study the lifetime of the cloud in the vicinity of the Feshbach resonances and show that depending on the spin states, 2- or 3-body mechanisms are at play. In the case of dipolar losses, we observe a non-trivial temperature dependence that is well explained by a simple model.

id: quant-ph/0406086
title: Inequalities and separations among assisted capacities of quantum channels
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Igor Devetak, Peter W. Shor, John A. Smolin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406086
abstract: We exhibit discrete memoryless quantum channels whose quantum capacity assisted by two-way classical communication, $Q_2$, exceeds their unassisted one-shot Holevo capacity $C_H$. These channels may be thought of as having a data input and output, along with a control input that partly influences, and a control output that partly reveals, which of a set of unitary evolutions the data undergoes en route from input to output. The channel is designed so that the data's evolution can be exactly inferred by a classically coordinated processing of 1) the control output, and 2) a reference system entangled with the control input, but not from either of these resources alone. Thus a two-way classical side channel allows the otherwise noisy evolution of the data to be corrected, greatly increasing the capacity. The same family of channels provides examples where the classical capacity assisted by classical feedback, $C_B$, and the quantum capacity assisted by classical feedback $Q_B$, both exceed $C_H$. A related channel, whose data input undergoes dephasing before interacting with the control input, has a classical capacity $C=C_H$ strictly less than its $C_2$, the classical capacity assisted by independent classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0406087
title: Sub shot noise phase quadrature measurement of intense light beams
authors: O. Gl?ckl, U. L. Andersen, S. Lorenz, Ch. Silberhorn, N. Korolkova, G. Leuchs
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters, 29, 1936 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406087
abstract: We present a setup to perform sub shot noise measurements of the phase quadrature for intense pulsed light without the use of a separate local oscillator. A Mach--Zehnder interferometer with an unbalanced arm length is used to detect the fluctuations of the phase quadrature at a single side band frequency. Using this setup, the non--separability of a pair of quadrature entangled beams is demonstrated experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0406088
title: Reconstruction of superoperators from incomplete measurements
authors: Mario Ziman, Martin Plesch, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406088
abstract: We present strategies how to reconstruct (estimate) properties of a quantum channel described by the map E based on incomplete measurements. In a particular case of a qubit channel a complete reconstruction of the map E can be performed via complete tomography of four output states E[rho_j ] that originate from a set of four linearly independent test states j (j = 1, 2, 3, 4) at the input of the channel. We study the situation when less than four linearly independent states are transmitted via the channel and measured at the output. We present strategies how to reconstruct the channel when just one, two or three states are transmitted via the channel. In particular, we show that if just one state is transmitted via the channel then the best reconstruction can be achieved when this state is a total mixture described by the density operator rho = I/2. To improve the reconstruction procedure one has to send via the channel more states. The best strategy is to complement the total mixture with pure states that are mutually orthogonal in the sense of the Bloch-sphere representation. We show that unitary transformations (channels) can be uniquely reconstructed (determined) based on the information of how three properly chosen input states are transformed under the action of the channel.

id: quant-ph/0406089
title: The Fraunhofer Quantum Computing Portal - www.qc.fraunhofer.de - A web-based Simulator of Quantum Computing Processes
authors: Helge Rose', Torsten Asselmeyer-Maluga, Matthias Kolbe, Falk Niehoerster, Andreas Schramm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406089
abstract: Fraunhofer FIRST develops a computing service and collaborative workspace providing a convenient tool for simulation and investigation of quantum algorithms. To broaden the twenty qubit limit of workstation-based simulations to the next qubit decade we provide a dedicated high memorized Linux cluster with fast Myrinet interconnection network together with a adapted parallel simulator engine. This simulation service supplemented by a collaborative workspace is usable everywhere via web interface and integrates both hardware and software as collaboration and investigation platform for the quantum community. The beta test version realizes all common one, two and three qubit gates, arbitrary one and two bit gates, orthogonal measurements as well as special gates like Oracle, Modulo function, Quantum Fourier Transformation and arbitrary Spin-Hamiltonians up to 31 qubits. For a restricted gate set it feasible to investigate circuits with up to sixty qubits. URL: this http URL

id: quant-ph/0406090
title: Tomographic reconstruction of the single-photon Fock state by high-frequency homodyne detection
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Silvia Viciani, Marco Bellini
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053821 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406090
abstract: A single-photon Fock state has been generated by means of conditional preparation from a two-photon state emitted in the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion. A recently developed high-frequency homodyne tomography technique has been used to completely characterize the Fock state by means of a pulse-to-pulse analysis of the detectors' difference photocurrent. The density matrix elements of the generated state have been retrieved with a final detection efficiency of about 57%. A comparison has been performed between the phase-averaged tomographic reconstructions of the Wigner function as obtained from the measured density-matrix elements and from a direct Abel transform of the homodyne data. The ability of our system to work at the full repetition rate of the pulsed laser (82 MHz) substantially simplifies the detection scheme, allowing for more ``exotic'' quantum states to be generated and analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0406091
title: Spintronic single qubit gate based on a quantum ring with spin-orbit interaction
authors: Peter Foldi, Balazs Molnar, Mihaly G. Benedict, F. M. Peeters
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71 (3), 033309 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406091
abstract: In a quantum ring connected with two external leads the spin properties of an incoming electron are modified by the spin-orbit interaction resulting in a transformation of the qubit state carried by the spin. The ring acts as a one qubit spintronic quantum gate whose properties can be varied by tuning the Rashba parameter of the spin-orbit interaction, by changing the relative position of the junctions, as well as by the size of the ring. We show that a large class of unitary transformations can be attained with already one ring -- or a few rings in series -- including the important cases of the Z, X, and Hadamard gates. By choosing appropriate parameters the spin transformations can be made unitary, which corresponds to lossless gates.

id: quant-ph/0406092
title: Variable stepsize Runge-Kutta methods for stochastic wave equations
authors: Joshua Wilkie, Murat Cetinbas
comments: 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 337, Issue 3, 4 April 2005, Pages 166-182
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406092
abstract: We show that existing Runge-Kutta methods for ordinary differential equations (odes) can be modified to solve stochastic differential equations (sdes) with strong solutions provided that appropriate changes are made to the way stepsizes are selected. The order of the resulting sde scheme is half the order of the ode scheme. Specifically, we show that an explicit 9th order Runge-Kutta method (with an embedded 8th order method) for odes yields an order 4.5 method for sdes which can be implemented with variable stepsizes. This method is tested by solving systems of sdes originating from stochastic wave equations arising from master equations and the many-body Schroedinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0406093
title: Shaping quantum pulses of light via coherent atomic memory
authors: M. D. Eisaman, L. Childress, A. Andre, F. Massou, A. S. Zibrov, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 233602 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406093
abstract: We describe a technique for generating pulses of light with controllable photon numbers, propagation direction, timing, and pulse shapes. The technique is based on preparation of an atomic ensemble in a state with a desired number of atomic spin excitations, which is later converted into a photon pulse. Spatio-temporal control over the pulses is obtained by exploiting long-lived coherent memory for photon states and electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an optically dense atomic medium. Using photon counting experiments we observe generation and shaping of few-photon sub-Poissonian light pulses. We discuss prospects for controlled generation of high-purity n-photon Fock states using this technique.

id: quant-ph/0406094
title: A Relativistic Version of the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber Model
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 19 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: J. Statist. Phys. 125 (2006) 821-840
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406094
abstract: Carrying out a research program outlined by John S. Bell in 1987, we arrive at a relativistic version of the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (GRW) model of spontaneous wavefunction collapse. The GRW model was proposed as a solution of the measurement problem of quantum mechanics and involves a stochastic and nonlinear modification of the Schr\"odinger equation. It deviates very little from the Schr\"odinger equation for microscopic systems but efficiently suppresses, for macroscopic systems, superpositions of macroscopically different states. As suggested by Bell, we take the primitive ontology, or local beables, of our model to be a discrete set of space-time points, at which the collapses are centered. This set is random with distribution determined by the initial wavefunction. Our model is nonlocal and violates Bell's inequality though it does not make use of a preferred slicing of space-time or any other sort of synchronization of spacelike separated points. Like the GRW model, it reproduces the quantum probabilities in all cases presently testable, though it entails deviations from the quantum formalism that are in principle testable. Our model works in Minkowski space-time as well as in (well-behaved) curved background space-times.

id: quant-ph/0406095
title: On interacting fermions and bosons with definite total momentum
authors: Ofir E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 125113 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406095
abstract: Any {\it exact} eigenstate with a definite momentum of a many-body Hamiltonian can be written as an integral over a {\it symmetry-broken} function $\Phi$. For two particles, we solve the problem {\it exactly} for all energy levels and any inter-particle interaction. Especially for the ground-state, $\Phi$ is given by the simple Hartree-Fock/Hartree ansatz for fermions/bosons. Implications for several and many particles as well as a numerical example are provided.

id: quant-ph/0406096
title: Quantum Beat of Two Single Photons
authors: Thomas Legero, Tatjana Wilk, Markus Hennrich, Gerhard Rempe, Axel Kuhn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 070503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406096
abstract: The interference of two single photons impinging on a beam splitter is measured in a time-resolved manner. Using long photons of different frequencies emitted from an atom-cavity system, a quantum beat with a visibility close to 100% is observed in the correlation between the photodetections at the output ports of the beam splitter. The time dependence of the beat amplitude reflects the coherence properties of the photons. Most remarkably, simultaneous photodetections are never observed, so that a temporal filter allows one to obtain perfect two-photon coalescence even for non-perfect photons.

id: quant-ph/0406097
title: Counterfactual errors and state reduction in relativistic quantum physics
authors: Jon Eakins, George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406097
abstract: We use the laws of relativistic physics to show that classically motivated counterfactual statements are inadequate when discussing the principles of quantum physics and that EPR style arguments against state reduction are incorrect.

id: quant-ph/0406098
title: Why are probabilistic laws governing quantum mechanics and neurobiology?
authors: H. Kroger
comments: 40 pages, 8 figs
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 25 (2005) 815-834.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406098
abstract: We address the question: Why are dynamical laws governing in quantum mechanics and in neuroscience of probabilistic nature instead of being deterministic? We discuss some ideas showing that the probabilistic option offers advantages over the deterministic one.

id: quant-ph/0406099
title: Quantum key distribution with asymmetric channel noise
authors: X.B. Wang
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406099
abstract: We show that one may take advantages in both robusty and key rate of asymmetric channel noise.

id: quant-ph/0406100
title: Fault tolerant quantum key distribution protocol with collective random unitary noise
authors: X.B. Wang
comments: Accepted by PRA as a Rapid Communication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406100
abstract: We propose an easy implementable prepare-and-measure protocol for robust quantum key distribution with photon polarization. The protocol is fault tolerant against collective random unitary channel noise. The protocol does not need any collective quantum measurement or quantum memory. A security proof and a specific linear optical realization using spontaneous parametric down conversion are given.

id: quant-ph/0406101
title: Proposed Test of Quantum Nonlocality for Continuous Variables
authors: Hyunchul Nha, H. J. Carmichael
comments: published version, typo corrected for the equation in the text before Eq.(11)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 93, 020401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406101
abstract: We propose a test of nonlocality for continuous variables using a two-mode squeezed state as the source of nonlocal correlations and a measurement scheme based on conditional homodyne detection. Both the CHSH- and the CH-inequality are constructed from the conditional homodyne data and found to be violated for a squeezing parameter larger than $r\approx0.48$.

id: quant-ph/0406102
title: Vacuum fluctuations and the conditional homodyne detection of squeezed light
authors: H J Carmichael, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, to appear in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., vol. 6, S645 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406102
abstract: Conditional homodyne detection of quadrature squeezing is compared with standard nonconditional detection. Whereas the latter identifies nonclassicality in a quantitative way, as a reduction of the noise power below the shot noise level, conditional detection makes a qualitative distinction between vacuum state squeezing and squeezed classical noise. Implications of this comparison for the realistic interpretation of vacuum fluctuations (stochastic electrodynamics) are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0406103
title: Multiparty Quantum Secret Sharing Based on Entanglement Swapping
authors: Z. J. Zhang, Z. X. Man
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406103
abstract: A multiparty quantum secret sharing (QSS) protocol is proposed by using swapping quantum entanglement of Bell states. The secret messages are imposed on Bell states by local unitary operations. The secret messages are split into several parts and each part is distributed to a party so that no action of a subset of all the parties but their entire cooperation is able to read out the secret messages. In addition, the dense coding is used in this protocol to achieve a high efficiency. The security of the present multiparty QSS against eavesdropping has been analyzed and confirmed even in a noisy quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0406104
title: Probabilistically Cloning and Quantum Computation
authors: Gao Ting, Yan Feng-Li, Wang Zhi-Xi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 21 (2004) 995
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406104
abstract: We discuss the usefulness of quantum cloning and present examples of quantum computation tasks for which cloning offers an advantage which cannot be matched by any approach that does not resort to it. In these quantum computations, we need to distribute quantum information contained in states about which we have some partial information. To perform quantum computations, we use state-dependent probabilistic quantum cloning procedure to distribute quantum information in the middle of a quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0406105
title: Searching for degeneracies of real Hamiltonians using homotopy classification of loops in SO($n$)
authors: Niklas Johansson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406105
abstract: Topological tests to detect degeneracies of Hamiltonians have been put forward in the past. Here, we address the applicability of a recently proposed test [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 060406 (2004)] for degeneracies of real Hamiltonian matrices. This test relies on the existence of nontrivial loops in the space of eigenbases SO$(n)$. We develop necessary means to determine the homotopy class of a given loop in this space. Furthermore, in cases where the dimension of the relevant Hilbert space is large the application of the original test may not be immediate. To remedy this deficiency, we put forward a condition for when the test is applicable to a subspace of Hilbert space. Finally, we demonstrate that applying the methodology of [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 060406 (2004)] to the complex Hamiltonian case does not provide any new information.

id: quant-ph/0406106
title: From Quantum State Targeting to Bell Inequalities
authors: H. Bechmann-Pasquinucci
comments: 19 pages. To appear in Foundations of Physics, special issue in honor of Asher Peres
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406106
abstract: Quantum state targeting is a quantum game which results from combining traditional quantum state estimation with additional classical information. We consider a particular version of the game and show how it can be played with maximally entangled states. The optimal solution of the game is used to derive a Bell inequality for two entangled qutrits. We argue that the nice properties of the inequality are direct consequences of the method of construction.

id: quant-ph/0406107
title: Quantum correlations and Nash equilibria of a bi-matrix game
authors: Azhar Iqbal
comments: minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) L353-L359
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406107
abstract: Playing a symmetric bi-matrix game is usually physically implemented by sharing pairs of 'objects' between two players. A new setting is proposed that explicitly shows effects of quantum correlations between the pairs on the structure of payoff relations and the 'solutions' of the game. The setting allows a re-expression of the game such that the players play the classical game when their moves are performed on pairs of objects having correlations that satisfy the Bell's inequalities. If players receive pairs having quantum correlations the resulting game cannot be considered another classical symmetric bi-matrix game. Also the Nash equilibria of the game are found to be decided by the nature of the correlations.

id: quant-ph/0406108
title: Towards Quantum Superpositions of a Mirror: an Exact Open Systems Analysis
authors: A. Bassi, E. Ippoliti, Stephen L. Adler
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX. Substantial changes made
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 94 (2005) 030401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406108
abstract: We analyze the recently proposed mirror superposition experiment of Marshall, Simon, Penrose, and Bouwmeester, assuming that the mirror's dynamics contains a non-unitary term of the Lindblad type proportional to -[q,[q,\rho]], with q the position operator for the center of mass of the mirror, and \rho the statistical operator. We derive an exact formula for the fringe visibility for this system. We discuss the consequences of our result for tests of environmental decoherence and of collapse models. In particular, we find that with the conventional parameters for the CSL model of state vector collapse, maintenance of coherence is expected to within an accuracy of at least 1 part in 10^{8}. Increasing the apparatus coupling to environmental decoherence may lead to observable modifications of the fringe visibility, with time dependence given by our exact result.

id: quant-ph/0406109
title: Comparison of classical chaos with quantum chaos
authors: L.A. Caron, D. Huard, H. Kr?ger, G. Melkonyan, K.J.M. Moriarty, L.P. Nadeau
comments: 25 pages, 10 figs
journal: J.Phys.A37:6251-6265,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406109
abstract: We investigate chaotic behavior in a 2-D Hamiltonian system - oscillators with anharmonic coupling. We compare the classical system with quantum system. Via the quantum action, we construct Poincar\'e sections and compute Lyapunov exponents for the quantum system. We find that the quantum system is globally less chaotic than the classical system. We also observe with increasing energy the distribution of Lyapunov exponts approaching a Gaussian with a strong correlation between its mean value and energy.

id: quant-ph/0406110
title: How quantum correlations enhance prediction of complementary measurements
authors: R. Filip, M. Gavenda, J. Soubusta, A. Cernoch, M. Dusek
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406110
abstract: If there are correlations between two qubits then the results of the measurement on one of them can help to predict measurement results on the other one. It is an interesting question what can be predicted about the results of two complementary projective measurements on the first qubit. To quantify these predictions the complementary \emph{knowledge excesses} are used. A non-trivial constraint restricting them is derived. For any mixed state and for arbitrary measurements the knowledge excesses are bounded by a factor depending only on the maximal violation of Bell's inequalities. This result is experimentally verified on two-photon Werner states prepared by means of spontaneous parametric down-conversion.

id: quant-ph/0406111
title: Inequalities for quantum channels assisted by limited resources
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures (references updated, minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062332 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406111
abstract: The information capacities and ``distillability'' of a quantum channel are studied in the presence of auxiliary resources. These include prior entanglement shared between the sender and receiver and free classical bits of forward and backward communication. Inequalities and trade-off curves are derived. In particular an alternative proof is given that in the absence of feedback and shared entanglement, forward classical communication does not increase the quantum capacity of a channel.

id: quant-ph/0406112
title: Conclusive and arbitrarily perfect quantum state transfer using parallel spin chain channels
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Sougato Bose
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures ; expanded version inluding discussion of transmission time
journal: Physical Review A 71, 052315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406112
abstract: We suggest a protocol for perfect quantum communication through spin chain channels. By combining a dual-rail encoding with measurements only at the receiving end, we can get conclusively perfect state transfer, whose probability of success can be made arbitrarily close to unity. As an example of such an amplitude delaying channel, we show how two parallel Heisenberg spin chains can be used as quantum wires. Perfect state transfer with a probability of failure lower than P in a Heisenberg chain of N spin-1/2 particles can be achieved in a timescale of the order of N^1.7|ln(P)|. We demonstrate that our scheme is more robust to decoherence and non-optimal timing than any scheme using single spin chains.

id: quant-ph/0406113
title: Generation of twin beams from an optical parametric oscillator pumped by a frequency-doubled diode laser
authors: Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Yun Zhang, Katsuyuki Kasai
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Opt. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406113
abstract: Quantum-correlated twin beams were generated from a triply resonant optical parametric oscillator with an a-cut KTP crystal pumped by a frequency-doubled diode laser. A total output of 5.1 mW was obtained in the classical-to-nonclassical-light conversion system driven by a 50-mW diode laser at 1080 nm. Quantum noise reduction of 4.3 dB (63%) in the intensity difference between the twin beams was successfully observed at the detection frequency of 3 MHz.

id: quant-ph/0406114
title: Generalized GHZ-class and W-class concurrence and entanglement vectors of the multipartite systems consisting of qubits
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4 pages, Revtex. Adding: to show how to exactly back to the usual Wootters' concurrence
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406114
abstract: We propose two classes of the generalized concurrence vectors of the multipartite systems consisting of qubits. Making use of them, we are able to, respectively, describe and quantify GHZ-class and W-class entanglement both in total and between arbitrary two partite in the multipartite system consisting of qubits. In the case of pure state of three qubits that one partite is separable, it is shown to exactly back to the usual Wootters' concurrence after introduce a whole concurrence vector. In principle, our method is applicable to any $N$-partite systems consisting of $N$ qubits.

id: quant-ph/0406115
title: Comment on "Secure direct communication with a quantum one-time pad"
authors: H. Hoffmann, K. Bostroem, T. Felbinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406115
abstract: In the paper [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{69}, 052319 (2004)], a quantum direct communication protocol is proposed which is claimed to be unconditionally secure even for the case of a noisy channel. We show that this is not the case by giving an undetectable attack scheme.

id: quant-ph/0406116
title: Casimir interaction between cylinders
authors: Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 7 pages, LateX, uses Rinton-P9x6.cls
journal: Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions, K. Milton editor, Paramus, NJ2004, Rinton Press
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406116
abstract: We compute the Casimir interaction energy between two perfectly conducting, concentric cylinders, using the mode-by-mode summation technique. Then we compare it with the approximate results obtained using the proximity theorem and a semiclassical approximation based on classical periodic orbits. We show that the proximity theorem with a particular choice for the effective area coincides with the semiclassical approximation and reproduces the exact result far beyond its expected range of validity. We also compute the force between slightly eccentric cylinders and discuss the advantages of using a cylindrical geometry to measure the Casimir force.

id: quant-ph/0406117
title: Quantum computing with magnetically interacting atoms
authors: Andrei Derevianko, Caleb C. Cannon
comments: fixed bibliography and eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062319 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406117
abstract: We propose a scalable quantum-computing architecture based on cold atoms confined to sites of a tight optical lattice. The lattice is placed in a non-uniform magnetic field and the resulting Zeeman sublevels define qubit states. Microwave pulses tuned to space-dependent resonant frequencies are used for individual addressing. The atoms interact via magnetic-dipole interactions allowing implementation of a universal controlled-NOT gate. The resulting gate operation times for alkalis are on the order of milliseconds, much faster then the anticipated decoherence times. Single qubit operations take about 10 microseconds. Analysis of motional decoherence due to NOT operations is given. We also comment on the improved feasibility of the proposed architecture with complex open-shell atoms, such as Cr, Eu and metastable alkaline-earth atoms with larger magnetic moments.

id: quant-ph/0406118
title: Robust Quantum Communication Using A Polarization-Entangled Photon Pair
authors: J.-C. Boileau, R. Laflamme, M. Laforest, C. R. Myers
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 220501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406118
abstract: Noise and imperfection of realistic devices are major obstacles for implementing quantum cryptography. In particular birefringence in optical fibers leads to decoherence of qubits encoded in polarization of photon. We show how to overcome this problem by doing single qubit quantum communication without a shared spatial reference frame and precise timing. Quantum information will be encoded in pair of photons using ``tag'' operations which corresponds to the time delay of one of the polarization modes. This method is robust against the phase instability of the interferometers despite the use of time-bins. Moreover synchronized clocks are not required in the ideal situation no photon loss case as they are only necessary to label the different encoded qubits.

id: quant-ph/0406119
title: On Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX (amsmath, amssymb, graphicx packages) 17 pages, 22 eps figures; v2: misspelling corrected, +2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406119
abstract: In recent work [quant-ph/0405174] by Schumacher and Werner was discussed an abstract algebraic approach to a model of reversible quantum cellular automata (CA) on a lattice. It was used special model of CA based on partitioning scheme and so there is a question about quantum CA derived from more general, standard model of classical CA. In present work is considered an approach to definition of a scheme with "history", valid for quantization both irreversible and reversible classical CA directly using local transition rules. It is used language of vectors in Hilbert spaces instead of C*-algebras, but results may be compared in some cases. Finally, the quantum lattice gases, quantum walk and "bots" are also discussed briefly.

id: quant-ph/0406120
title: Comment on: "Measuring a Photonic Qubit without Destroying It"
authors: Pieter Kok, William J. Munro
comments: one page, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 048901 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406120
abstract: Recently, Pryde et al reported the demonstration of a quantum non-demolition scheme for single-photon polarization states with linear optics and projective measurements [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 190402 (2004)]. Here, we argue that their interpretation of the experiment is inconsistent with the fidelity measure they use.

id: quant-ph/0406121
title: The time evolution of the Bohmian Pilot Wave
authors: Miroslaw Kozlowski, Janina Marciak-Kozlowska
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406121
abstract: In this paper the Newton-Schrodinger-Bohm equation is solved for particles with m>M_P. It is shown that the Bohmian pilot wave for particles with m>M_P oscillates with frequency omega=tau^{-1}_P, where tau_P is the Planck time. Key words: Macroscopic particles; Pilot wave.

id: quant-ph/0406122
title: Vacuum fluctuations and Brownian motion of a charged test particle near a reflecting boundary
authors: Hongwei Yu, L. H. Ford
comments: 8 pages, no figures, discussions added, version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 065009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406122
abstract: We study the Brownian motion of a charged test particle coupled to electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations near a perfectly reflecting plane boundary. The presence of the boundary modifies the quantum fluctuations of the electric field, which in turn modifies the motion of the test particle. We calculate the resulting mean squared fluctuations in the velocity and position of the test particle. In the case of directions transverse to the boundary, the results are negative. This can be interpreted as reducing the quantum uncertainty which would otherwise be present.

id: quant-ph/0406123
title: Creating excitonic entanglement in quantum dots through the optical Stark effect
authors: A. Nazir, B. W. Lovett, G. A. D. Briggs
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; published version, figure 3 improved, corrections to RWA derived
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406123
abstract: We show that two initially non-resonant quantum dots may be brought into resonance by the application of a single detuned laser. This allows for control of the inter-dot interactions and the generation of highly entangled excitonic states on the picosecond timescale. Along with arbitrary single qubit manipulations, this system would be sufficient for the demonstration of a prototype excitonic quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0406124
title: Stability of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: PhD thesis, University of Ljubljana, June 2004; 142 pages ; version with higher resolution figures can be obtained from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406124
abstract: The stability of quantum systems to perturbations of the Hamiltonian is studied. This stability is quantified by the fidelity. Dependence of fidelity on the initial state as well as on the dynamical properties of the system is considered. In particular, systems having a chaotic or regular classical limit are analysed. The fidelity decay rate is given by an integral of the correlation function of the perturbation and is thus smaller the faster correlation function decays. If the perturbation can be written as a time derivative of another operator, meaning that the time averaged perturbation vanishes, fidelity freezes at a constant value and starts to decay only after a long time inversely proportional to the perturbation strength. In composite systems stability of entanglement to perturbations of the Hamiltonian is analysed in terms of purity. For regular systems purity decay is shown to be independent of Planck's constant for coherent initial states in the semiclassical limit. The accelerated decoherence of macroscopic superpositions is also explained. The theory of fidelity decay is applied to the stability of quantum computation and an improved quantum Fourier transform algorithm is designed.

id: quant-ph/0406125
title: Energy level statistics for models of coupled single-mode Bose--Einstein condensates
authors: Silvio R. Dahmen, Jon Links, Ross H. McKenzie, Huan-Qiang Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406125
abstract: We study the distribution of energy level spacings in two models describing coupled single-mode Bose-Einstein condensates. Both models have a fixed number of degrees of freedom, which is small compared to the number of interaction parameters, and is independent of the dimensionality of the Hilbert space. We find that the distribution follows a universal Poisson form independent of the choice of coupling parameters, which is indicative of the integrability of both models. These results complement those for integrable lattice models where the number of degrees of freedom increases with increasing dimensionality of the Hilbert space. Finally, we also show that for one model the inclusion of an additional interaction which breaks the integrability leads to a non-Poisson distribution.

id: quant-ph/0406126
title: Quantum Positioning System
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406126
abstract: A quantum positioning system (QPS) is proposed that can provide a user with all four of his space-time coordinates. The user must carry a corner cube reflector, a good clock, and have a two-way classical channel of communication with the origin of the reference frame. Four pairs of entangled photons (biphotons) are sent through four interferometers: three interferometers are used to determine the user's spatial position, and an additional interferometer is used to synchronize the user's clock to coordinate time in the reference frame. The spatial positioning part of the QPS is similar to a classical time-of-arrival (TOA) system, however, a classical TOA system (such as GPS) must have synchronized clocks that keep coordinate time and therefore the clocks must have long-term stability, whereas in the QPS only a photon coincidence counter is needed and the clocks need only have short-term stability. Several scenarios are considered for a QPS: one is a terrestrial system and another is a space-based-system composed of low-Earth orbit (LEO) satellites. Calculations indicate that for a space-based system, neglecting atmospheric effects, a position accuracy below the 1 cm-level is possible for much of the region near the Earth. The QPS may be used as a primary system to define a global 4-dimensional reference frame.

id: quant-ph/0406127
title: Permanents in linear optical networks
authors: Stefan Scheel
comments: 6 pages, typeset using RevTeX
journal: results are contained in Acta Physica Slovaca 58, 675 (2008) and in Chap.28 of Beth/Leuchs (eds.) 'Quantum Information Processing' (Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406127
abstract: We develop an abstract look at linear optical networks from the viewpoint of combinatorics and permanents. In particular we show that calculation of matrix elements of unitarily transformed photonic multi-mode states is intimately linked to the computation of permanents. An implication of this remarkable fact is that all calculations that are based on evaluating matrix elements are generically computationally hard. Moreover, quantum mechanics provides simpler derivations of certain matrix analysis results which we exemplify by showing that the permanent of any unitary matrix takes its values across the unit disk in the complex plane.

id: quant-ph/0406128
title: Continuous variable entanglement of phase locked light beams
authors: H.H. Adamyan, G.Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A69, 053814 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406128
abstract: We explore in detail the possibility of intracavity generation of continuous-variable (CV) entangled states of light beams under mode phase-locked conditions. We show that such quantum states can be generated in self-phase locked nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator (NOPO) based on a type-II phase-matched down-conversion combined with linear mixer of two orthogonally polarized modes of the subharmonics in a cavity. A quantum theory of this device, recently realized in the experiment, is developed for both sub-threshold and above-threshold operational regimes. We show that the system providing high level phase coherence between two generated modes, unlike to the ordinary NOPO, also exhibits different types of quantum correlations between photon numbers and phases of these modes. We quantify the CV entanglement as two-mode squeezing and show that the maximal degree of the integral two-mode squeezing(that is 50% relative to the level of vacuum fluctuations) is achieved at the pump field intensity close to the generation threshold of self-phase locked NOPO, provided that the constant of linear coupling between the two polarizations is much less than the mode detunings. The peculiarities of CV entanglement for the case of unitary, non-dissipative dynamics of the system under consideration is also cleared up.

id: quant-ph/0406129
title: Quantum Game Theory in Finance
authors: Edward W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski
comments: 18 pages; a solicited paper for Quantitative Finance
journal: Abbreviated version was published in Quantitative Finance 4 (2004) 1-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406129
abstract: This is a short review of the background and recent development in quantum game theory and its possible application in economics and finance. The intersection of science and society is also discussed. The review is addressed to non--specialists.

id: quant-ph/0406130
title: Quantum dialogue
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: 4 pages, Revtex4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 328, 6 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406130
abstract: We propose an entanglement-based protocol for two people to simultaneously exchange their messages. We show that the protocol is asymptotically secure against the disturbance attack, the intercept-and-resend attack and the entangle-and-measure attack. Our protocol is experimentally feasible within current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0406131
title: Quantum chaos viewed from quantum action
authors: D. Huard, H. Kr?ger, G. Melkonyan, L.P. Nadeau, K.J.M. Moriarty
comments: talk by Helmut Kr\"oger at Conf. on Found. of Quant. Mech., Vaxjo (Sweden) 2003
journal: Vaxjo Univ. Press, Ser. Math. Modeling in Phys., Vol.10 (2004), p.287-299.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406131
abstract: We consider a mixed chaotic Hamiltonian system and compare classical with quantum chaos. As alternative to the methods of enegy level spacing statistics and trace formulas, we construct a quantum action and a quantum analogue phase space to analyse quantum chaos.

id: quant-ph/0406132
title: The complementarity of quantum observables: theory and experiment
authors: P. Busch, P.J. Lahti
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures in pdf format. This review paper, which appeared in 1995, is being made available here in view of the renewed strong interest in complementarity during recent years
journal: Rivista del Nuovo Cimento 18(4) (1995) 1-27
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406132
abstract: Three notions of complementarity - operational, probabilistic, and value complementarity - are reanalysed with respect to the question of joint measurements and compared with reference to some examples of canonically conjugate observables. It is shown that the joint measurability of noncommuting observables is a consequence of the quantum formalism if unsharp observables are taken into account; a fact not in conflict with the idea of complementarity, which, in its strongest version, was originally formulated only for sharp observables. As an illustration of the general theory, the wave-particle duality of photons is analysed in terms of complementary path and interference observables and their unsharp joint measurability.

id: quant-ph/0406133
title: Quantum Information Processing in Nanostructures
authors: Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 36 pages, 9 figures. Review article to appear in "Handbook of Theoretical and Computational Nanotechnology"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406133
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots integrated with ultrafast spectroscopy technology are prime candidates for building scalable architectures for Quantum Information Processing. In this review paper we survey the current state of theoretical proposals concerning all-optical control of nanostructure qubits and their interactions. These schemes offer potential for ultrafast optical manipulation of quantum information in time scales within the coherence time.

id: quant-ph/0406134
title: A Newtonian Hidden Variable Theory
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406134
abstract: A new hidden variable theory is proposed, according to which particles follows definite trajectories, as in Bohmian Mechanics or Nelson's stochastic mechanics; in the new theory, however, the trajectories are classical, i.e. Newtonian. This result is obtained by developing the following concepts: (i) the essential elements of a hidden variable theory are a set of trajectories and a measure defined on it; the Newtonian HCT will be defined by giving these two elements. (ii) The universal wave function has a tree structure, whose branches are generated by the measurement processes and are spatially disjoined. (iii) The branches have a classical structure, i.e. classical paths go along them; this property derives from the fact that the paths close to the classical ones give the main contribution to the Feynman propagator. (iv) Classical trajectories can give rise to quantum phenomena, like for instance the interference phenomena of the two-slit experiment, by violating the so called Independence Assumption, which is always implicitely made in the conceptual analysis of these phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0406135
title: A combinatorial approach for studying LOCC transformations of multipartite states
authors: Sudhir Kumar Singh, Sudebkumar Prasant Pal, Somesh Kumar, R. Srikanth
comments: To appear in the Journal of Mathematical Physics, 33 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406135
abstract: We develop graph theoretic methods for analysing maximally entangled pure states distributed between a number of different parties. We introduce a technique called {\it bicolored merging}, based on the monotonicity feature of entanglement measures, for determining combinatorial conditions that must be satisfied for any two distinct multiparticle states to be comparable under local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We present several results based on the possibility or impossibility of comparability of pure multipartite states. We show that there are exponentially many such entangled multipartite states among $n$ agents. Further, we discuss a new graph theoretic metric on a class of multi-partite states, and its implications.

id: quant-ph/0406136
title: Normal-mode spectroscopy of a single bound atom-cavity system
authors: P. Maunz, T. Puppe, I. Schuster, N. Syassen, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 94, 033002 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406136
abstract: The energy-level structure of a single atom strongly coupled to the mode of a high-finesse optical cavity is investigated. The atom is stored in an intracavity dipole trap and cavity cooling is used to compensate for inevitable heating. Two well-resolved normal modes are observed both in the cavity transmission and the trap lifetime. The experiment is in good agreement with a Monte Carlo simulation, demonstrating our ability to localize the atom to within $\lambda/10$ at a cavity antinode.

id: quant-ph/0406137
title: A possible hypercomputational quantum algorithm
authors: Andrs Sicard, Mario Vlez, Juan Ospina
comments: Title changed. Updated to the published version. Oral contribution to Quantum Information and Computation III, part of the SPIE Defense and Security Symposium 2005. 8 pages
journal: In E. J. Donkor, A. R. Pirich, and H. E. Brandt, editors, "Quantum Information and Computation III", volume 5815 of Proc. of SPIE. SPIE, Bellingham, WA, 2005. p. 219-226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406137
abstract: The term `hypermachine' denotes any data processing device (theoretical or that can be implemented) capable of carrying out tasks that cannot be performed by a Turing machine. We present a possible quantum algorithm for a classically non-computable decision problem, Hilbert's tenth problem; more specifically, we present a possible hypercomputation model based on quantum computation. Our algorithm is inspired by the one proposed by Tien D. Kieu, but we have selected the infinite square well instead of the (one-dimensional) simple harmonic oscillator as the underlying physical system. Our model exploits the quantum adiabatic process and the characteristics of the representation of the dynamical Lie algebra su(1,1) associated to the infinite square well.

id: quant-ph/0406138
title: Ultralong coherence times in the purely electronic zero-phonon line emission of single molecules
authors: Alper Kiraz, Moritz Ehrl, Christoph Br?uchle, Andreas Zumbusch
comments: to appear in Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406138
abstract: We report the observation of ultralong coherence times in the purely electronic zero-phonon line emission of single terrylenediimide molecules at 1.4 K. Vibronic excitation and spectrally resolved detection with a scanning Fabry-Perot spectrum analyzer were used to measure a linewidth of 65 MHz. This is within a factor of 1.6 of the transform limit. It therefore indicates that single molecule emission may be suited for applications in linear optics quantum computation. Additionally it is shown that high resolution spectra taken with the spectrum analyzer allow for the investigation of fast spectral dynamics in the emission of a single molecule.

id: quant-ph/0406139
title: Quantum states satisfying classical probability constraints
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: v.2: 13 pages, reorganized and shortened version (most examples removed); one reference added; the results not changed
journal: Banach Center Publ. vol. 73, 325-337 (2006) Proc. 25th QP Conf., June 2004, Poland
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406139
abstract: For linear combinations of quantum product averages in an arbitrary bipartite state, we derive new quantum Bell-form and CHSH-form inequalities with the right-hand sides expressed in terms of a bipartite state. This allows us to specify in a general setting bipartite state properties sufficient for the validity of a classical CHSH-form inequality and the perfect correlation form of the original Bell inequality for any bounded quantum observables. We also introduce a new general condition on a bipartite state and quantum observables sufficient for the validity of the original Bell inequality, in its perfect correlation or anticorrelation forms. Under this general sufficient condition, a bipartite quantum state does not necessarily exhibit perfect correlations or anticorrelations.

id: quant-ph/0406140
title: Entanglement-assisted classical information capacity of the amplitude damping channel
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 17 (2003) 1547-1552
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406140
abstract: In this paper, we calculate the entanglement-assisted classical information capacity of amplitude damping channel and compare it with the particular mutual information which is considered as the entanglement-assisted classical information capacity of this channel in Ref. 6. It is shown that the difference between them is very small. In addition, we point out that using partial symmetry and concavity of mutual information derived from dense coding scheme one can simplify the calculation of entanglement-assisted classical information capacities for non-unitary-covariant quantum noisy channels.

id: quant-ph/0406141
title: Entanglement convertibility for infinite dimensional pure bipartite states
authors: Masaki Owari, Keiji Matsumoto, Mio Murao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 050301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406141
abstract: It is shown that the order property of pure bipartite states under SLOCC (stochastic local operations and classical communications) changes radically when dimensionality shifts from finite to infinite. In contrast to finite dimensional systems where there is no pure incomparable state, the existence of infinitely many mutually SLOCC incomparable states is shown for infinite dimensional systems even under the bounded energy and finite information exchange condition. These results show that the effect of the infinite dimensionality of Hilbert space, the ``infinite workspace'' property, remains even in physically relevant infinite dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0406142
title: A logarithmic-depth quantum carry-lookahead adder
authors: Thomas G. Draper, Samuel A. Kutin, Eric M. Rains, Krysta M. Svore
comments: 21 pages, 4 color figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 6, No. 4-5, pp. 351-369 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406142
abstract: We present an efficient addition circuit, borrowing techniques from the classical carry-lookahead arithmetic circuit. Our quantum carry-lookahead (QCLA) adder accepts two n-bit numbers and adds them in O(log n) depth using O(n) ancillary qubits. We present both in-place and out-of-place versions, as well as versions that add modulo 2^n and modulo 2^n - 1. Previously, the linear-depth ripple-carry addition circuit has been the method of choice. Our work reduces the cost of addition dramatically with only a slight increase in the number of required qubits. The QCLA adder can be used within current modular multiplication circuits to reduce substantially the run-time of Shor's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0406143
title: Quantum Adaptive Protocol and its Application in Image Storage and Retrieval
authors: S. E. Venegas-Andraca, S. Bose
comments: This paper has been temporarily withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406143
abstract: This paper has been temporarily withdrawn by the authors.

id: quant-ph/0406144
title: Quantum computation with cold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice
authors: J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A 361, 1537-1548 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406144
abstract: We analyse an implementation of a quantum computer using bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. We show that, even though the number of atoms per site and the tunneling rate between neighbouring sites is unknown, one may perform a universal set of gates by means of adiabatic passage.

id: quant-ph/0406145
title: A precise estimation of the computational complexity in Shor's factoring algorithm
authors: K. Kuriyama, S. Sano, S. Furuichi
comments: 
journal: Applied Mathematics and Information Science, Vol.1(2007),pp.313-322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406145
abstract: A precise estimation of the computational complexity in Shor's factoring algorithm under the condition that the large integer we want to factorize is composed by the product of two prime numbers, is derived by the results related to number theory. Compared with Shor's original estimation, our estimation shows that one can obtain the solution under such a condition, by less computational complexity.

id: quant-ph/0406146
title: Spin squeezing and precision probing with light and samples of atoms in the gaussian approximation
authors: Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 70, 052324 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406146
abstract: We consider an ensemble of trapped atoms interacting with a continuous wave laser field. For sufficiently polarized atoms and for a polarized light field, we may approximate the non-classical components of the collective spin angular momentum operator for the atoms and the Stokes vectors of the field by effective position and momentum variables for which we assume a gaussian state. Within this approximation, we present a theory for the squeezing of the atomic spin by polarization rotation measurements on the probe light. We derive analytical expressions for the squeezing with and without inclusion of the noise effects introduced by atomic decay and by photon absorption. The theory is readily adapted to the case of inhomogeneous light-atom coupling [A. Kuzmich and T.A.B. Kennedy, Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 92, 030407 (2004)]. As a special case, we show how to formulate the theory for an optically thick sample by slicing the gas into pieces each having only small photon absorption probability. Our analysis of a realistic probing and measurement scheme shows that it is the maximally squeezed component of the atomic gas that determines the accuracy of the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0406147
title: Quantum cryptography: a practical information security perspective
authors: Kenneth G. Paterson, Fred Piper, Ruediger Schack
comments: 5 pages, new title, published version, minor changes only
journal: Published in Quantum Communication and Security, Proceedings, NATO Advanced Research Workshop, edited by M. Zukowski, S. Kilin and J. Kowalik, p. 175-180 (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406147
abstract: Quantum Key Exchange (QKE, also known as Quantum Key Distribution or QKD) allows communicating parties to securely establish cryptographic keys. It is a well-established fact that all QKE protocols require that the parties have access to an authentic channel. Without this authenticated link, QKE is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Overlooking this fact results in exaggerated claims and/or false expectations about the potential impact of QKE. In this paper we present a systematic comparison of QKE with traditional key establishment protocols in realistic secure communication systems.

id: quant-ph/0406148
title: Experimental realization of hyper-entangled two-photon states
authors: C. Cinelli, M. Barbieri, F. De Martini, P. Mataloni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406148
abstract: We report on the the experimental realization of hyper-entangled two photon states, entangled in polarization and momentum. These states are produced by a high brilliance parametric source of entangled photon pairs with peculiar characteristics of flexibility in terms of state generation. The quality of the entanglement in the two degrees of freedom has been tested by multimode Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0406149
title: A new perturbation method in quantum mechanics
authors: F.M. Fernandez
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406149
abstract: We investigate the convergence properties of a perturbation method proposed some time ago and reveal some of it most interesting features. Anharmonic oscillators in the strong--coupling limit prove to be appropriate illustrative examples and benchmark.

id: quant-ph/0406150
title: Efficient generation of graph states for quantum computation
authors: S.R. Clark, C. Moura Alves, D. Jaksch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTex 4; v2 - Major changes and new results
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 124 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406150
abstract: We present an entanglement generation scheme which allows arbitrary graph states to be efficiently created in a linear quantum register via an auxiliary entangling bus. The dynamics of the entangling bus is described by an effective non-interacting fermionic system undergoing mirror-inversion in which qubits, encoded as local fermionic modes, become entangled purely by Fermi statistics. We discuss a possible implementation using two species of neutral atoms stored in an optical lattice and find that the scheme is realistic in its requirements even in the presence of noise.

id: quant-ph/0406151
title: A Subexponential Time Algorithm for the Dihedral Hidden Subgroup Problem with Polynomial Space
authors: Oded Regev
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406151
abstract: In a recent paper, Kuperberg described the first subexponential time algorithm for solving the dihedral hidden subgroup problem. The space requirement of his algorithm is super-polynomial. We describe a modified algorithm whose running time is still subexponential and whose space requirement is only polynomial.

id: quant-ph/0406152
title: Non-conditioned generation of Schroedinger cat states in a cavity
authors: P.P.Munhoz, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: REVTeX4, 8 pages, 7 figures, link to an external animation file
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52(11), 1557 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406152
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a two-level atom in a cavity filled with a nonlinear medium. We show that the atom-field detuning $\delta$ and the nonlinear parameter $\chi^{(3)}$ may be combined to yield a periodic dynamics and allowing the generation of almost exact superpositions of coherent states ({\sl Schr\"odinger} cats). By analysing the atomic inversion and the field purity, we verify that any initial atom-field state is recovered at each revival time, and that a coherent field interacting with an excited atom evolves to a superposition of coherent states at each collapse time. We show that a mixed field state (statistical mixture of two coherent states) evolves towards a pure field state ({\sl Schr\"odinger} cat) as well. We discuss the validity of those results by using the field fidelity and the {\sl Wigner} function.

id: quant-ph/0406153
title: The Theory of Two-Photon Interference in an EIT System
authors: Jianming Wen, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406153
abstract: We examine the possibility of storing and retrieving a single photon using electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We consider the theory of a proof of principle two-photon interference experiment, in which an atomic vapor cell is placed in one arm of a two-photon interferometer. Since the two-photon state is entangled, we can examine the degree to which entanglement survives. We show that while the experiment might be difficult, it should be possible to perform. We also show that the two-photon interference pattern has oscillatory behavior. pacs 42.50.Ct, 42.50.Dv, 42.50.Gy, 42.50.St

id: quant-ph/0406154
title: Qubits and Quantum Spaces
authors: Paola A. Zizzi
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX. Contributed paper at Foundations of Quantum Information, 16-19 April 2004, Camerino, Italy. Shorter, final version for the Proceedings, submitted to a special issue of IJQI
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 3, N.1 (2005):287-291
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406154
abstract: We consider the quantum computational process as viewed by an insider observer: this is equivalent to an isomorphism between the quantum computer and a quantum space, namely the fuzzy sphere. The result is the formulation of a reversible quantum measurement scheme, with no hidden information.

id: quant-ph/0406155
title: Less eavesdropping losses induce more eavesdropping information gain
authors: Zhanjun Zhang, Zhongxiao Man, Yong Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406155
abstract: The eavesdropping scheme proposed by W\'{o}jcik [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90},157901(2003)] on the quantum communication protocol of Bostr\"{o}m and Felbinger [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 89}, 187902(2002)] is improved by constituting a new set of attack operations. The improved scheme only induces half of the eavesdropping losses in W\'{o}jcik's scheme, therefore, in a larger domain of the quantum channel transmission efficiency $\eta$, i.e., [0,75%], the eavesdropper Eve can attack all the transmitted bits. Comparing to W\'{o}jcik's scheme, in the improved scheme the eavesdropping (legitimate) information gain does not vary in the $\eta$ domain of [0, 50%], while in the $\eta$ domain of (50%, 75%] the less eavesdropping losses induce more eavesdropping information gains, for Eve can attack {\it all} the transmitted bits and accordingly eavesdropping information gains do {\it not} decrease. Moreover, for the Bostr\"{o}m-Felbinger protocol, the insecurity upper bound of $\eta$ presented by W\'{o}jcik is pushed up in the this paper, that is, according to W\'{o}jcik's eavesdropping scheme, the Bostr\"{o}m-Felbinger protocol is not secure for transmission efficiencies lower than almost 60%, while according to the improved scheme, it is not secure for transmission efficiencies lower than almost 80%.

id: quant-ph/0406156
title: Nonlocality tests of Bell Inequalities and of Hardy's "ladder theorem" without "supplementary assumptions"
authors: M. Barbieri, F. De Martini, G. Di Nepi, P. Mataloni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406156
abstract: We have experimentally tested the non local properties of the states generated by a high brilliance source of entanglement which virtually allows the direct measurement of the full set of photon pairs created by the basic QED process implied by the parametric quantum scattering. Standard Bell measurements and Bell's inequality violation test have been realized over the entire cone of emission of the degenerate pairs. By the same source we have verified the Hardy's ladder theory up to the 20th step and the contradiction between the standard quantum theory and the local realism has been tested for 41% of entangled pairs. PACS: 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Mn, 42.65.Lm

id: quant-ph/0406157
title: Altruistic Contents of Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: Revised according to publisher's request: 4 pgs, 2 fgs, ReVTeX4. For more info, go to this http URL
journal: Europhysics Letters 69 (2005) 149-155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406157
abstract: We examine the classical contents of quantum games. It is shown that a quantum strategy can be interpreted as a classical strategies with effective density-dependent game matrices composed of transposed matrix elements. In particular, successful quantum strategies in dilemma games are interpreted in terms of a symmetrized game matrix that corresponds to an altruistic game plan.

id: quant-ph/0406158
title: Gauge fields, point interactions and few-body problems in one dimension
authors: S.Albeverio, S.M.Fei, P.Kurasov
comments: 7 pages
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 53 (2004) 363-370
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406158
abstract: Point interactions for the second derivative operator in one dimension are studied. Every operator from this family is described by the boundary conditions which include a $ 2 \times 2 $ real matrix with the unit determinant and a phase. The role of the phase parameter leading to unitary equivalent operators is discussed in the present paper. In particular it is shown that the phase parameter is not redundant (contrary to previous studies) if non stationary problems are concerned. It is proven that the phase parameter can be interpreted as the amplitude of a singular gauge field. Considering the few-body problem we extend the range of parameters for which the exact solution can be found using the Bethe Ansatz.

id: quant-ph/0406159
title: Quantum state transmission via a spin ladder as a robust data bus
authors: Y.Li, T.Shi, B.Chen, Z.Song, C.P.Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406159
abstract: We explore the physical mechanism to coherently transfer the quantum information of spin by connecting two spins to an isotropic antiferromagnetic spin ladder system as data bus. Due to a large spin gap existing in such a perfect medium, the effective Hamiltonian of the two connected spins can be archived as that of Heisenberg type, which possesses a ground state with maximal entanglement. We show that the effective coupling strength is inversely proportional to the distance of the two spins and thus the quantum information can be transferred between the two spins separated by a longer distance, i.e. the characteristic time of quantum state transferring linearly depends on the distance.

id: quant-ph/0406160
title: When is the two-level approximation untenable in issues of Decoherence?
authors: Kerim Savran, Tugrul Hakioglu, Emine Mese
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406160
abstract: We examine the conditions in favor and necessity of a realistic multileveled description of a decohering quantum system. Under these conditions approximate techniques to simplify a multileveled system by its first two levels is unreliable and a realistic multilevel description in the formulation of decoherence is unavoidable. In this regard, our first crucial observation is that, the validity of the two level approximation of a multileveled system is not controlled purely by {\it sufficiently low temperatures}. We demonstrate using three different environmental spectral models that the type of system-environment coupling and the environmental spectrum have a dominant role over the temperature. Particularly, zero temperature quantum fluctuations induced by the Caldeira-Leggett type linear coordinate coupling can be influential in a wide energy range in the systems allowed transitions. The second crucial observation against the validity of the two level approximation is that the decoherence times being among the system's short time scales are found to be dominated not by the resonant but {\it non-resonant} processes. We demonstrate this in three stages. Firstly, our zero temperature numerical calculations reveal that, the calculated decoherence rates including relaxation, dephasing and leakage phenomena show, a linear dependence on the spectral area for all spectral models used, independent from the spectral shape within a large environmental spectral range compared to the quantum system's energies. Secondly, within the same range, the decoherence times only have a marginal dependence on the translations of the entire frequency spectrum. Finally, the same decoherence rates show strong dependence on the number of coupled levels by the system-environment coupling.

id: quant-ph/0406161
title: Quantum noise induced entanglement and chaos in the dissipative quantum model of brain
authors: Eliano Pessa, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 14 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 18 (2004) 841-858
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406161
abstract: We discuss some features of the dissipative quantum model of brain in the frame of the formalism of quantum dissipation. Such a formalism is based on the doubling of the system degrees of freedom. We show that the doubled modes account for the quantum noise in the fluctuating random force in the system-environment coupling. Remarkably, such a noise manifests itself through the coherent structure of the system ground state. The entanglement of the system modes with the doubled modes is shown to be permanent in the infinite volume limit. In such a limit the trajectories in the memory space are classical chaotic trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0406162
title: A new inequality for the von Neumann entropy
authors: Noah Linden, Andreas Winter
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: Commun Math Phys, vol 259, pp 129-138 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406162
abstract: Strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy, proved in 1973 by Lieb and Ruskai, is a cornerstone of quantum coding theory. All other known inequalities for entropies of quantum systems may be derived from it. Here we prove a new inequality for the von Neumann entropy which we prove is independent of strong subadditivity: it is an inequality which is true for any four party quantum state, provided that it satisfies three linear relations (constraints) on the entropies of certain reduced states.

id: quant-ph/0406163
title: A note on the geometric phase in adiabatic approximation
authors: D. M. Tong, K. Singh, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 11 pages, no figure, modified and Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 339(2005)288
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406163
abstract: The adiabatic theorem shows that the instantaneous eigenstate is a good approximation of the exact solution for a quantum system in adiabatic evolution. One may therefore expect that the geometric phase calculated by using the eigenstate should be also a good approximation of exact geometric phase. However, we find that the former phase may differ appreciably from the latter if the evolution time is large enough.

id: quant-ph/0406164
title: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information: Are They Related to Quantum Paradoxology?
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos, Michael R. von Spakovsky
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406164
abstract: We review both the Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen (EPR) paper about the completeness of quantum theory, and Schrodinger's responses to the EPR paper. We find that both the EPR paper and Schrodinger's responses, including the cat paradox, are not consistent with the current understanding of quantum theory and thermodynamics. Because both the EPR paper and Schrodinger's responses play a leading role in discussions of the fascinating and promising fields of quantum computation and quantum information, we hope our review will be helpful to researchers in these fields.

id: quant-ph/0406165
title: The laplacian of a graph as a density matrix: a basic combinatorial approach to separability of mixed states
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Sibasish Ghosh, Simone Severini
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: Annals of Combinatorics, Volume 10, No 3, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406165
abstract: We study entanglement properties of mixed density matrices obtained from combinatorial Laplacians. This is done by introducing the notion of the density matrix of a graph. We characterize the graphs with pure density matrices and show that the density matrix of a graph can be always written as a uniform mixture of pure density matrices of graphs. We consider the von Neumann entropy of these matrices and we characterize the graphs for which the minimum and maximum values are attained. We then discuss the problem of separability by pointing out that separability of density matrices of graphs does not always depend on the labelling of the vertices. We consider graphs with a tensor product structure and simple cases for which combinatorial properties are linked to the entanglement of the state. We calculate the concurrence of all graph on four vertices representing entangled states. It turns out that for some of these graphs the value of the concurrence is exactly fractional.

id: quant-ph/0406166
title: Contextuality for preparations, transformations, and unsharp measurements
authors: R. W. Spekkens
comments: 16 pages, REVTEX, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406166
abstract: An operational definition of contextuality is introduced which generalizes the standard notion in three ways: (1) it applies to arbitrary operational theories rather than just quantum theory, (2) it applies to arbitrary experimental procedures, rather than just sharp measurements, and (3) it applies to a broad class of ontological models of quantum theory, rather than just deterministic hidden variable models. We derive three no-go theorems for ontological models, each based on an assumption of noncontextuality for a different sort of experimental procedure; one for preparation procedures, another for unsharp measurement procedures (that is, measurement procedures associated with positive-operator valued measures), and a third for transformation procedures. All three proofs apply to two-dimensional Hilbert spaces, and are therefore stronger than traditional proofs of contextuality.

id: quant-ph/0406167
title: The conformally invariant Laplace-Beltrami operator and factor ordering
authors: Michael P. Ryan, Jr., Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 7 pages, extra paraghraph and two references are added
journal: Phys.Lett. A333 (2004) 30-34
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406167
abstract: In quantum mechanics the kinetic energy term for a single particle is usually written in the form of the Laplace-Beltrami operator. This operator is a factor ordering of the classical kinetic energy. We investigate other relatively simple factor orderings and show that the {\it only} other solution for a conformally flat metric is the conformally invariant Laplace-Beltrami operator. For non-conformally-flat metrics this type of factor ordering fails, by just one term, to give the conformally invariant Laplace-Beltrami operator.

id: quant-ph/0406168
title: Entanglement in the stabilizer formalism
authors: David Fattal, Toby S. Cubitt, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Sergey Bravyi, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406168
abstract: We define a multi-partite entanglement measure for stabilizer states, which can be computed efficiently from a set of generators of the stabilizer group. Our measure applies to qubits, qudits and continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0406169
title: A New Relation between post and pre-optimal measurement states
authors: Chirag Dhara, N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 4 pages in REVTEX
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 024102(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406169
abstract: When an optimal measurement is made on a qubit and what we call an Unbiased Mixture of the resulting ensembles is taken, then the post measurement density matrix is shown to be related to the pre-measurement density matrix through a simple and linear relation. It is shown that such a relation holds only when the measurements are made in Mutually Unbiased Bases- MUB. For Spin-1/2 it is also shown explicitly that non-orthogonal measurements fail to give such a linear relation no matter how the ensembles are mixed. The result has been proved to be true for arbitrary quantum mechanical systems of finite dimensional Hilbert spaces. The result is true irrespective of whether the initial state is pure or mixed.

id: quant-ph/0406170
title: Purification of Single Qubits and reconstruction from Post-Measurement State
authors: Chirag Dhara, N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 6 pages in REVTEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406170
abstract: Purification of mixed states in Quantum Mechanics, by which we mean the transformation into pure states, has been viewed as an {\it Operation} in the sense of Kraus et al and explicit {\it Kraus Operators} \cite{kra1,kra2,kra3} have been constructed for two seperate purification protocols. The first one, initially due to Schrodinger \cite{sch} and subsequently elaborated by Sudarshan et al \cite{sudar}, is based on the {\it preservation of probabilities}. We have constructed a second protocol here based on {\it optimization of fidelities}. Both purification protocols have been implemented on a single qubit in an attempt to improve the fidelity of the purified post measurement state of the qubit with the initial pure state. We have considered both {\it complete} and {\it partial} measurements and have established bounds and inequalities for various fidelities. We show that our purification protocol leads to better state reconstruction, most explicitly so, when partial measurements are made.

id: quant-ph/0406171
title: Comment on 'quantum dialogue'
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: PACS:03.67.Hk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406171
abstract: In this comment, we want to emphasize that when the state of the two qubit is $|0>_{B}|1>_{A}$ or $|1>_{A}|0>_{B}$, Bob's Bell basis measurement outcome can not be $|\phi ^{\pm}>$. Also, when the product state is $|0> |0>$ or $|1> |1>$, Bob's measurement outcome can not be $|\psi ^{\pm}>$.

id: quant-ph/0406172
title: Violation of Bell's inequality for continuous variables
authors: L. Praxmeyer, B.-G. Englert, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: An article based on a talk given at the EU QUEST network conference "Quantum Information with Atoms, Ions and Photons" (La Tuile, Italy, March 2004)
journal: EPJ D 32, 227-231, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406172
abstract: We construct a wide class of bounded continuous variables observables that lead to violations of Bell inequalities for the EPR state and give an intuitive Wigner function explanation how to predetermine which operators won't ever exceed the bounds given by local theories.

id: quant-ph/0406173
title: Relativistic quantum mechanics and the Bohmian interpretation
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 10 pages, revised, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.18:549-561,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406173
abstract: Conventional relativistic quantum mechanics, based on the Klein-Gordon equation, does not possess a natural probabilistic interpretation in configuration space. The Bohmian interpretation, in which probabilities play a secondary role, provides a viable interpretation of relativistic quantum mechanics. We formulate the Bohmian interpretation of many-particle wave functions in a Lorentz-covariant way. In contrast with the nonrelativistic case, the relativistic Bohmian interpretation may lead to measurable predictions on particle positions even when the conventional interpretation does not lead to such predictions.

id: quant-ph/0406174
title: MUBs, polytopes, and finite geometries
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 15 pages; talk at the Vaxjo conference on probability and physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406174
abstract: A complete set of N+1 mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) exists in Hilbert spaces of dimension N = p^k, where p is a prime number. They mesh naturally with finite affine planes of order N, that exist when N = p^k. The existence of MUBs for other values of N is an open question, and the same is true for finite affine planes. I explore the question whether the existence of complete sets of MUBs is directly related to the existence of finite affine planes. Both questions can be shown to be geometrical questions about a convex polytope, but not in any obvious way the same question.

id: quant-ph/0406175
title: On SIC-POVMs and MUBs in Dimension 6
authors: Markus Grassl
comments: Results on maximal sets of MUBs in dimension 4 together with an appendix with the 48 vectors in dimension 6 are added. Omission in Lemma 2 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406175
abstract: We provide a partial solution to the problem of constructing mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) and symmetric informationally complete POVMs (SIC-POVMs) in non-prime-power dimensions. An algebraic description of a SIC-POVM in dimension six is given. Furthermore it is shown that several sets of three mutually unbiased bases in dimension six are maximal, i.e., cannot be extended.

id: quant-ph/0406176
title: Synthesis of Quantum Logic Circuits
authors: Vivek V. Shende, Stephen S. Bullock, Igor L. Markov
comments: 18 pages; v5 fixes minor bugs; v4 is a complete rewrite of v3, with 6x more content, a theory of quantum multiplexors and Quantum Shannon Decomposition. A key result on generic circuit synthesis has been improved to ~23/48*4^n CNOTs for n qubits
journal: IEEE Trans. on Computer-Aided Design, vol. 25, no. 6, June 2006, pp.1000 - 1010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406176
abstract: We discuss efficient quantum logic circuits which perform two tasks: (i) implementing generic quantum computations and (ii) initializing quantum registers. In contrast to conventional computing, the latter task is nontrivial because the state-space of an n-qubit register is not finite and contains exponential superpositions of classical bit strings. Our proposed circuits are asymptotically optimal for respective tasks and improve published results by at least a factor of two. The circuits for generic quantum computation constructed by our algorithms are the most efficient known today in terms of the number of expensive gates (quantum controlled-NOTs). They are based on an analogue of the Shannon decomposition of Boolean functions and a new circuit block, quantum multiplexor, that generalizes several known constructions. A theoretical lower bound implies that our circuits cannot be improved by more than a factor of two. We additionally show how to accommodate the severe architectural limitation of using only nearest-neighbor gates that is representative of current implementation technologies. This increases the number of gates by almost an order of magnitude, but preserves the asymptotic optimality of gate counts.

id: quant-ph/0406177
title: Time Ordering in Kicked Qubits
authors: L. Kaplan, Kh. Kh. Shakov, A. Chalastaras, M. Maggio, A. L. Burin, J. H. McGuire
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 063401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406177
abstract: We examine time ordering effects in strongly, suddenly perturbed two-state quantum systems (kicked qubits) by comparing results with time ordering to results without time ordering. Simple analytic expressions are given for state occupation amplitudes and probabilities for singly and multiply kicked qubits. We investigate the limit of no time ordering, which can differ in different representations.

id: quant-ph/0406178
title: The field inside a random distribution of parallel dipoles
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg, Klaus Molmer
comments: RevTeX, 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 143903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406178
abstract: We determine the probability distribution for the field inside a random uniform distribution of electric or magnetic dipoles. For parallel dipoles, simulations and an analytical derivation show that although the average contribution from any spherical shell around the probe position vanishes, the Levy stable distribution of the field is symmetric around a non-vanishing field amplitude. In addition we show how omission of contributions from a small volume around the probe leads to a field distribution with a vanishing mean, which, in the limit of vanishing excluded volume, converges to the shifted distribution.

id: quant-ph/0406179
title: The average detection probability of the quantum dialogue protocol under the disturbance attack is 3/4
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: 3 pages, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406179
abstract: We prove explicitly that the detection probability of the disturbance attack in the recently proposed quantum dialogue protocol is 3/4 in average. The purpose is not only to reply a comment but also to provide a deeper understanding of a kind of tampering in an unauthorized communication.

id: quant-ph/0406180
title: The Complexity of the Local Hamiltonian Problem
authors: Julia Kempe, Alexei Kitaev, Oded Regev
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures, replaced with revised version, numerous improvements to readability and expanded adiabatic section
journal: SIAM Journal of Computing, Vol. 35(5), p. 1070-1097 (2006), conference version in Proc. 24th FSTTCS, p. 372-383 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406180
abstract: The k-local Hamiltonian problem is a natural complete problem for the complexity class QMA, the quantum analog of NP. It is similar in spirit to MAX-k-SAT, which is NP-complete for k<=2. It was known that the problem is QMA-complete for any k <= 3. On the other hand 1-local Hamiltonian is in P, and hence not believed to be QMA-complete. The complexity of the 2-local Hamiltonian problem has long been outstanding. Here we settle the question and show that it is QMA-complete. We provide two independent proofs; our first proof uses only elementary linear algebra. Our second proof uses a powerful technique for analyzing the sum of two Hamiltonians; this technique is based on perturbation theory and we believe that it might prove useful elsewhere. Using our techniques we also show that adiabatic computation with two-local interactions on qubits is equivalent to standard quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0406181
title: Economically Improving Message-Unilaterally-Transmitted Quantum Secure Direct Communication to Realize Two-Way Communication
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Zhong-xiao Man, Yong Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406181
abstract: We present a subtle idea to economically improve message-unilaterally-transmitted quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) protocols to realize two-way secure direct communication.

id: quant-ph/0406182
title: Entanglement versus energy in quantum spin models
authors: XiaoGuang Wang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406182
abstract: We study entanglement properties of all eigenstates of the Heisenberg XXX model, and find that the entanglement and mixedness for a pair of nearest-neighbor qubits are completely determined by the corresponding eigenenergies. Specifically, the negativity of the eigenenergy implies pairwise entanglement. From the relation between entanglement and eigenenergy, we obtain finite-size behaviors of the entanglement. We also study entanglement and mixedness versus energy in the quantum Heisenberg XY model.

id: quant-ph/0406183
title: Giant Lamb Shift in Photonic Crystals
authors: Xue-Hua Wang, Yuri S Kivshar, Ben-Yuan Gu
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406183
abstract: We obtain a general result for the Lamb shift of excited states of multi-level atoms in inhomogeneous electromagnetic structures and apply it to study atomic hydrogen in inverse-opal photonic crystals. We find that the photonic-crystal environment can lead to very large values of the Lamb shift, as compared to the case of vacuum. We also predict that the position-dependent Lamb shift should extend from a single level to a mini-band for an assemble of atoms with random distribution in space, similar to the velocity-dependent Doppler effect in atomic/molecular gases.

id: quant-ph/0406184
title: Explicit Form of the Evolution Operator for the Four Atoms Tavis-Cummings Model
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Tatsuo Suzuki, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file, 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406184
abstract: In this letter the explicit form of evolution operator for the four atoms Tavis-Cummings model is given.

id: quant-ph/0406185
title: General formalism of Hamiltonians for realizing a prescribed evolution of a qubit
authors: D. M. Tong, Jing-Ling Chen, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 062307 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406185
abstract: We investigate the inverse problem concerning the evolution of a qubit system, specifically we consider how one can establish the Hamiltonians that account for the evolution of a qubit along a prescribed path in the projected Hilbert space. For a given path, there are infinite Hamiltonians which can realize the same evolution. A general form of the Hamiltonians is constructed in which one may select the desired one for implementing a prescribed evolution. This scheme can be generalized to higher dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0406186
title: Geometric quantum gate for trapped ions based on optical dipole forces induced by Gaussian laser beams
authors: Peter Staanum, Michael Drewsen, Klaus Moelmer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052327 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406186
abstract: We present an implementation of quantum logic gates via internal state dependent displacements of ions in a linear Paul trap caused by optical dipole forces. Based on a general quantum analysis of the system dynamics we consider specific implementations with alkaline earth ions. For experimentally realistic parameters gate infidelities as low as $10^{-4}$ can be obtained.

id: quant-ph/0406187
title: Conditional Density Matrix in the Context of Noncontextuality
authors: V.Belokurov, O.Khrustalev, V.Sadovnichy, O.Timofeevskaya
comments: 10 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406187
abstract: Conditional density matrix represents a quantum state of subsystem in different schemes of quantum communication. Here we discuss some properties of conditional density matrix and its place in general scheme of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0406188
title: Towards measuring variations of Casimir energy by a superconducting cavity
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Enrico Calloni, Giampiero Esposito, Leopoldo Milano, Luigi Rosa
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Substantial improvement of presentation, choice of a more convenient cavity geometry. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.94:180402,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406188
abstract: We consider a Casimir cavity, one plate of which is a thin superconducting film. We show that when the cavity is cooled below the critical temperature for the onset of superconductivity, the sharp variation (in the far infrared) of the reflection coefficient of the film engenders a variation in the value of the Casimir energy. Even though the relative variation in the Casimir energy is very small, its magnitude can be comparable to the condensation energy of the superconducting film, and this gives rise to a number of testable effects, including a significant increase in the value of the critical magnetic field, required to destroy the superconductivity of the film. The theoretical ground is therefore prepared for the first experiment ever aimed at measuring variations of the Casimir energy itself.

id: quant-ph/0406189
title: On the existence of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Channels
authors: B. C. Sanctuary
comments: Five pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406189
abstract: A physical theory without interpretation is mathematics. Since there are no paradoxes in science, only incorrect interpretations of phenomena or inadequate theories, it is necessary to use a consistent interpretation of quantum mechanics that makes physical sense and satisfies the experimental facts. Quantum "teleportation" provides such an example because the current treatments rely on unexplained connections between separated correlated particles. In this comment, a mechanism is suggested that avoids the instantaneous wave function collapse between non-interacting entangled particles at space like separations. This mechanism requires a statistical ensemble interpretation of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0406190
title: Phase-Modulus Relations for a Reflected Particle
authors: A. Yahalom, R. Englman
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A, 107(37), 7170 - 7174 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406190
abstract: We formulate analytically the reflection of a one dimensional, expanding free wave-packet (wp) from an infinite barrier. Three types of wp's are considered, representing an electron, a molecule and a classical object. We derive a threshold criterion for the values of the dynamic parameters so that reciprocal (Kramers-Kronig) relations hold {\it in the time domain} between the log-modulus of the wp and the (analytic part of its) phase acquired during the reflection. For an electron, in a typical case, the relations are shown to be satisfied. For a molecule the modulus-phase relations take a more complicated form, including the so called Blaschke term. For a classical particle characterized by a large mean momentum ($\hbar K >> \frac{\hbar trajectory length} {(size of wave-packet)^2} >>> \frac{\hbar}{size of wave-packet}$) the rate of acquisition of the relative phase between different wp components is enormous (for a bullet it is typically $10^{14}$ GHertz) with also a very large value for the phase maximum.

id: quant-ph/0406191
title: Quantum Zeno effect by indirect measurement: The effect of the detector
authors: M.G. Makris, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A, 70, 044101 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406191
abstract: We study the quantum Zeno effect in the case of indirect measurement, where the detector does not interact directly with the unstable system. Expanding on the model of Koshino and Shimizu [Phys. Rev. Lett., 92, 030401, (2004)] we consider a realistic Hamiltonian for the detector with a finite bandwidth. We also take explicitly into account the position, the dimensions and the uncertainty in the measurement of the detector. Our results show that the quantum Zeno effect is not expected to occur, except for the unphysical case where the detector and the unstable system overlap.

id: quant-ph/0406192
title: Quantum Computing using Linear Optics
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C. Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: JHU-APL internal review article
journal: Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest Vol. 25, 84-90 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406192
abstract: Quantum computers are expected to be able to solve mathematical problems that cannot be solved using conventional computers. Many of these problems are of practical importance, especially in the areas of cryptography and secure communications. APL is developing an optical approach to quantum computing in which the bits, or "qubits", are represented by single photons. Our approach allows the use of ordinary (linear) optical elements that are available for the most part as off-the-shelf components. Recent experimental demonstrations of a variety of logic gates for single photons, a prototype memory device, and other devices will be described.

id: quant-ph/0406193
title: Quantum Chaos: Reduced Density Matrix Fluctuations in Coupled Systems
authors: Sankhasubhra Nag, Gautam Ghosh, Avijit Lahiri
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures, elsart style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406193
abstract: Following a recent work (briefly reviewed below) we consider temporal fluctuations in the reduced density matrix elements for a coupled system involving a pair of kicked rotors as also one made up of a pair of Harper Hamiltonians. These dynamical fluctuations are found to constitute a reliable indicator of the degree of chaos in the quantum dynamics, and are related to stationary features like the eigenvalue and eigenvector distributions of the system under consideration. A brief comparison is made with the evolution of the reduced distribution function in the classical phase space.

id: quant-ph/0406194
title: Signed Phases and Fields Associated with Degeneracies
authors: R. Englman, A. Yahalom
comments: 34 pages, 1 figure
journal: Acta Phys. et Chim., 34-35, 283 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406194
abstract: In the first part, expressions are given for the {\it sign} of the topological angle that is acquired upon making a loop around a degeneracy ("conical intersection") point of two molecular energy surfaces. The expressions involve the partial derivatives (with respect to the nuclear coordinates) of the matrix elements of the coupling Hamiltonian. Examples are given of a few studied cases, such as of excited states that have topological angles with a sign opposite to those in the ground states. In the second part, the two dimensional (or two parameter) situation that characterizes a conical intersection (ci) between potential surfaces in a polyatomic molecule is constructed as a limiting case of the three dimensional Dirac-monopole situation. For an electron occupying a twofold state, we obtain both the "magnetic-field" (or curl-field) and the tensorial (or Yang-Mills-) field (which is the sum of a curl and of a vector- product term). These pseudo- fields represent the reaction of the electron on the nuclear motion via the nonadiabatic coupling terms (NACTs). We find that both fields are aligned with the orthogonal, (so called) seam directions of the ci and are zero everywhere outside the seam, but they differ as regards the flux that they produce. In a two-state situation, the fields are representation dependent and the values of, e.g., the fluxes depend on the state that the electron occupies. The angular dependence of the NACTs and the fields calculated from a general linearly coupled model agrees with recently computed results for $C_2 H$ [A.M. Mebel, M. Baer and S.H. Lin, J.Chem. Phys. {\bf 115} 3673 (2001)]. An effective-Hamiltonian formalism is proposed for experimentally observing and distinguishing between the different fields.

id: quant-ph/0406195
title: Phase Evolution in a Multi-Component System
authors: Robert Englman Asher Yahalom
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A, 67, 5, 054103-054106 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406195
abstract: We derive a general expression for the expectation value of the phase acquired by a time dependent wave function in a multi component system, as excursions are made in its coordinate space. We then obtain the mean phase for the (linear dynamic $E \otimes \epsilon$) Jahn-Teller situation in an electronically degenerate system. We interpret the phase-change as an observable measure of the {\it effective} nodal structure of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0406196
title: Improved Simulation of Stabilizer Circuits
authors: Scott Aaronson, Daniel Gottesman
comments: 15 pages. Final version with some minor updates and corrections. Software at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052328 (2004) (14 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406196
abstract: The Gottesman-Knill theorem says that a stabilizer circuit -- that is, a quantum circuit consisting solely of CNOT, Hadamard, and phase gates -- can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer. This paper improves that theorem in several directions. First, by removing the need for Gaussian elimination, we make the simulation algorithm much faster at the cost of a factor-2 increase in the number of bits needed to represent a state. We have implemented the improved algorithm in a freely-available program called CHP (CNOT-Hadamard-Phase), which can handle thousands of qubits easily. Second, we show that the problem of simulating stabilizer circuits is complete for the classical complexity class ParityL, which means that stabilizer circuits are probably not even universal for classical computation. Third, we give efficient algorithms for computing the inner product between two stabilizer states, putting any n-qubit stabilizer circuit into a "canonical form" that requires at most O(n^2/log n) gates, and other useful tasks. Fourth, we extend our simulation algorithm to circuits acting on mixed states, circuits containing a limited number of non-stabilizer gates, and circuits acting on general tensor-product initial states but containing only a limited number of measurements.

id: quant-ph/0406197
title: Adiabatic and non-adiabatic merging of independent Bose condensates
authors: W. Yi, L.-M. Duan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Replaced with the final published version with considerable modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 71, 043607 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406197
abstract: Motivated by a recent experiment [Chikkatur, et al. Science, 296, 2193 (2002)] on the merging of atomic condensates, we investigate how two independent condensates with random initial phases can develop a unique relative phase when we move them together. In the adiabatic limit, the uniting of independent condensates can be understood from the eigenstate evolution of the governing Hamiltonian, which maps degenerate states (corresponding to fragmented condensates) to a single state (corresponding to a united condensate) . In the non-adiabatic limit corresponding to the practical experimental configurations, we give an explanation on why we can still get a large condensate fraction with a unique relative phase. Detailed numerical simulations are then performed for the non-adiabatic merging of the condensates, which confirm our explanation and qualitative estimation. The results may have interesting implications for realizing a continuous atom laser based on merging of condensates.

id: quant-ph/0406198
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation via Exchange interactions
authors: M. Mohseni, D.A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, including 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 040507 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406198
abstract: Quantum computation can be performed by encoding logical qubits into the states of two or more physical qubits, and controlling a single effective exchange interaction and possibly a global magnetic field. This "encoded universality" paradigm offers potential simplifications in quantum computer design since it does away with the need to perform single-qubit rotations. Here we show that encoded universality schemes can be combined with quantum error correction. In particular, we show explicitly how to perform fault-tolerant leakage correction, thus overcoming the main obstacle to fault-tolerant encoded universality.

id: quant-ph/0406199
title: Nonlocality and the Correlation of Measurement Bases
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 6 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 684 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406199
abstract: Nonlocal nature apparently shown in entanglement is one of the most striking features of quantum theory. We examine the locality assumption in Bell-type proofs for entangled qubits, i.e. the outcome of a qubit at one end is independent of the basis choice at the other end. It has recently been claimed that in order to properly incorporate the phenomenon of self-observation, the Heisenberg picture with time going backwards provides a consistent description. We show that, if this claim holds true, the assumption in nonlocality proofs that basis choices at two ends are independent of each other may no longer be true, and may pose a threat to the validity of Bell-type proofs.

id: quant-ph/0406200
title: Symmetric Triple Well with Non-Equivalent Vacua: Instantonic Approach
authors: H. A. Alhendi, E. I. Lashin
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables; minor changes; added references
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 2103-2112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406200
abstract: We show that for the triple well potential with non-equivalent vacua, instantons generate for the low lying energy states a singlet and a doublet of states rather than a triplet of equal energy spacing. Our energy splitting formulae are also confirmed numerically. This splitting property is due to the presence of non-equivalent vacua. A comment on its generality to multi-well is presented.

id: quant-ph/0406201
title: A Quantum Theoretical Formulation of Proper Time for Spin 1/2 Particles
authors: Shoju Kudaka, Shuichi Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406201
abstract: We find a quantum mechanical formulation of proper time for spin 1/2 particles within the framework of the Dirac theory. It is shown that an operator corresponds to the rate of the proper time and that the operator contains terms which oscillate with a very high frequency. We deduce, as an effect of these terms, the existence of an interference between the magnetic field and the rate of proper time. There is a possibility that the conclusion derived in this letter has some implications for astrophysics.

id: quant-ph/0406202
title: Ground state entanglement and geometric entropy in the Kitaev's model
authors: A.Hamma, R.Ionicioiu, P.Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, one fig, ReVTeX 4; updated to the published version
journal: Phys.Lett. A 337, 22 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406202
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of the ground state in Kitaev's model. This is a two-dimensional spin system with a torus topology and nontrivial four-body interactions between its spins. For a generic partition $(A,B)$ of the lattice we calculate analytically the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix $\rho_A$ in the ground state. We prove that the geometric entropy associated with a region $A$ is linear in the length of its boundary. Moreover, we argue that entanglement can probe the topology of the system and reveal topological order. Finally, no partition has zero entanglement and we find the partition that maximizes the entanglement in the given ground state.

id: quant-ph/0406203
title: Fisher, Kaehler, Weyl and the quantum potential
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: 17 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406203
abstract: Connections between Fisher information, Kaehler geometry of a quantum projective Hilbert space, and the Weyl-Ricci scalar curvature of a Riemannian flat spacetime with quantum matter are sketched.

id: quant-ph/0406204
title: Double-EIT ground-state laser cooling without blue-sideband heating
authors: Joerg Evers, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 68, 370 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406204
abstract: We discuss a laser cooling scheme for trapped atoms or ions which is based on double electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and makes use of a four-level atom in tripod configuration. The additional fourth atomic state is coupled by a strong coupling laser field to the usual three-level setup of single-EIT cooling. This effectively allows to create two EIT structures in the absorption spectrum of the system to be cooled, which may be controlled by the coupling laser field parameters to cancel both the carrier- and the blue-sideband excitations. In leading order of the Lamb-Dicke expansion, this suppresses all heating processes. As a consequence, the double-EIT scheme can be used to lower the cooling limit by almost two powers of the Lamb-Dicke parameter as compared to single-EIT cooling.

id: quant-ph/0406205
title: Almost Certain Escape from Black Holes
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 9 Pages, TeX
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 061302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406205
abstract: This paper examines how black holes might compute in light of recent models of the black-hole final state. These models suggest that quantum information can escape from the black hole by a process akin to teleportation. They require a specific final state and restrictions on the interaction between the collapsing matter and the incoming Hawking radiation for quantum information to escape. This paper shows that for an arbitrary final state and for generic interactions between matter and Hawking radiation, the quantum information about how the hole was formed and the results of any computation performed by the matter inside the hole escapes with fidelity exponentially close to 1.

id: quant-ph/0406206
title: Recursive Calculation of Effective Potential and Variational Resummation
authors: Sebastian F. Brandt, Hagen Kleinert, Axel Pelster
comments: Author Information under this http URL Latest update of paper (including all PS fonts) at this http URL
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46, 032101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406206
abstract: We set up a method for a recursive calculation of the effective potential which is applied to a cubic potential with imaginary coupling. The result is resummed using variational perturbation theory (VPT), yielding an exponentially fast convergence.

id: quant-ph/0406207
title: Quantum Searching via Entanglement and Partial Diffusion
authors: Ahmed Younes, Jon Rowe, Julian Miller
comments: 19 pages. Submitted to IJQI. Please forward comments/enquires for the first author to ayounes2@yahoo.com
journal: Physica D. Vol. 237(8) pp. 1074-1078 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406207
abstract: In this paper, we will define a quantum operator that performs the inversion about the mean only on a subspace of the system (Partial Diffusion Operator). This operator is used in a quantum search algorithm that runs in O(sqrt{N/M}) for searching an unstructured list of size N with M matches such that 1<= M<=N. We will show that the performance of the algorithm is more reliable than known {fixed operators quantum search algorithms} especially for multiple matches where we can get a solution after a single iteration with probability over 90% if the number of matches is approximately more than one-third of the search space. We will show that the algorithm will be able to handle the case where the number of matches M is unknown in advance such that 1<=M<=N in O(sqrt{N/M}). A performance comparison with Grover's algorithm will be provided.

id: quant-ph/0406208
title: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Implementation of a Quantum Clock Synchronization Algorithm
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Guilu Long, Zhiwei Deng, Wenzhang Liu, Zhiheng Lu
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 70, 062322 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406208
abstract: The quantum clock synchronization algorithm proposed by I. L. Chuang (Phys. Rev. Lett, 85, 2006(2000)) has been implemented in a three qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum system. The effective-pure state is prepared by the spatial averaging approach. The time difference between two separated clocks can be determined by reading out directly through the NMR spectra.

id: quant-ph/0406209
title: Modularization of multi-qubit controlled phase gate and its NMR implementation
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Wenzhang Liu, Zhiwei Deng, Zhiheng Lu, Gui Lu Long
comments: to appear in Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, 22(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406209
abstract: Quantum circuit network is a set of circuits that implements a certain computation task. Being at the center of the quantum circuit network, the multi-qubit controlled phase shift is one of the most important quantum gates. In this paper, we apply the method of modular structuring in classical computer architecture to quantum computer and give a recursive realization of the multi-qubit phase gate. This realization of the controlled phase shift gate is convenient in realizing certain quantum algorithms. We have experimentally implemented this modularized multi-qubit controlled phase gate in a three qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum system. The network is demonstrated experimentally using line selective pulses in nuclear magnetic resonance technique. The procedure has the advantage of being simple and easy to implement.

id: quant-ph/0406210
title: Computational Methods for Simulating Quantum Computers
authors: H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: To appear in: Handbook of Theoretical and Computational Nanotechnology (American Scientific Publishers)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406210
abstract: This review gives a survey of numerical algorithms and software to simulate quantum computers.It covers the basic concepts of quantum computation and quantum algorithms and includes a few examples that illustrate the use of simulation software for ideal and physical models of quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0406211
title: Numerical simulations of mixed states quantum computation
authors: P. Gawron, J. A. Miszczak
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, presented at Foundations of Quantum Information, 16th-19th April 2004, Camerino, Italy
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf, Vol. 3, No. 1 (March 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Digital Libraries (cs.DL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406211
abstract: We describe quantum-octave package of functions useful for simulations of quantum algorithms and protocols. Presented package allows to perform simulations with mixed states. We present numerical implementation of important quantum mechanical operations - partial trace and partial transpose. Those operations are used as building blocks of algorithms for analysis of entanglement and quantum error correction codes. Simulation of Shor's algorithm is presented as an example of package capabilities.

id: quant-ph/0406212
title: On Cyclic Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Kenichi Konishi, Giampiero Paffuti
comments: Latex file, 14 pages, 3 figures, minor correction made in Section 1
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A21 (2006) 3199-3211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406212
abstract: It is proven that the energy of a quantum mechanical harmonic oscillator with a generically time-dependent but cyclic frequency, $\omega_{0}(t_{0})= \omega_{0}(0)$, cannot decrease on the average if the system is originally in a stationary state, after the system goes through a full cycle. The energy exchange always takes place in the direction from the macroscopic system (environment) to the quantum microscopic system.

id: quant-ph/0406213
title: A Pathwise Ergodic Theorem for Quantum Trajectories
authors: Burkhard Kuemmerer, Hans Maassen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406213
abstract: If the time evolution of an open quantum system approaches equilibrium in the time mean, then on any single trajectory of any of its unravelings the time averaged state approaches the same equilibrium state with probability 1. In the case of multiple equilibrium states the quantum trajectory converges in the mean to a random choice from these states.

id: quant-ph/0406214
title: Quantum Algorithm for SAT Problem and Quantum Mutual Entropy
authors: Masanori Ohya
comments: 19 pages, Proceedings of the von Neumann Centennial Conference: Linear Operators and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics, Budapest, Hungary, 15-20 October, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406214
abstract: It is von Neumann who opened the window for today's Information epoch. He defined quantum entropy including Shannon's information more than 20 years ahead of Shannon, and he introduced a concept what computation means mathematically. In this paper I will report two works that we have recently done, one of which is on quantum algorithum in generalized sense solving the SAT problem (one of NP complete problems) and another is on quantum mutual entropy properly describing quantum communication processes.

id: quant-ph/0406215
title: On Quantum Capacity and its Bound
authors: Masanori Ohya, Igor V. Volovich
comments: 10 pages
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis and Quantum Probability, Vol. 6,No.2 301-310, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406215
abstract: The quantum capacity of a pure quantum channel and that of classical-quantum-classical channel are discussed in detail based on the fully quantum mechanical mutual entropy. It is proved that the quantum capacity generalizes the so-called Holevo bound.

id: quant-ph/0406216
title: New quantum algorithm for studying NP-complete problems
authors: Masanori Ohya, Igor V. Volovich
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Rep.Math.Phys.,52, No.1,25-33, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406216
abstract: Ordinary approach to quantum algorithm is based on quantum Turing machine or quantum circuits. It is known that this approach is not powerful enough to solve NP-complete problems. In this paper we study a new approach to quantum algorithm which is a combination of the ordinary quantum algorithm with a chaotic dynamical system. We consider the satisfiability problem as an example of NP-complete problems and argue that the problem, in principle, can be solved in polynomial time by using our new quantum algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0406217
title: Reciprocity between Moduli and Phases in Time-Dependent Wave-Functions
authors: R. Englman, A. Yahalom, M. Baer
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 60, 3, 1802-1810 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406217
abstract: For time (t) dependent wave functions we derive rigorous conjugate relations between analytic decompositions (in the complex t-plane) of the phases and of the log moduli. We then show that reciprocity, taking the form of Kramers-Kronig integral relations (but in the time domain), holds between observable phases and moduli in several physically important instances. These include the nearly adiabatic (slowly varying) case, a class of cyclic wave-functions, wave packets and non-cyclic states in an "expanding potential". The results exhibit the interdependence of geometric-phases and related decay probabilities. Several known quantum mechanical theories possess the reciprocity property obtained in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0406218
title: Phase-Modulus Relations in Cyclic Wave Functions
authors: R. Englman, A. Yahalom, M. Baer
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 251, 223-228 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406218
abstract: We derive reciprocal integral relations between phases and amplitude moduli for a class of wave functions that are cyclically varying in time. The relations imply that changes of a certain kind (e.g. not arising from the dynamic phase) obligate changes in the other. Numerical results indicate the approximate validity of the relationships for arbitrarily (non-cyclically) varying states in the adiabatic (slowly changing) limit.

id: quant-ph/0406219
title: Communicating continuous quantum variables between different Lorentz frames
authors: Pieter Kok, Timothy C. Ralph, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. Vol. 5, 239-246 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406219
abstract: We show how to communicate Heisenberg-limited continuous (quantum) variables between Alice and Bob in the case where they occupy two inertial reference frames that differ by an unknown Lorentz boost. There are two effects that need to be overcome: the Doppler shift and the absence of synchronized clocks. Furthermore, we show how Alice and Bob can share Doppler-invariant entanglement, and we demonstrate that the protocol is robust under photon loss.

id: quant-ph/0406220
title: On superselection rules for macroscopic objects
authors: Lev Prokhorov
comments: 6 pages, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406220
abstract: It is shown that for "ideal" macroscopic objects there are superselection rules forbidding superpositions of macroscopically distinguishable states of the objects. For real macroscopic bodies the notion of "weak" superselection rules is introduced. Some other aspects of the measurement problem are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0406221
title: Atoms near magnetodielectric bodies: van-der-Waals energy and Casimir-Polder force
authors: S. Y. Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung, T. Kampf, L. Kn?ll, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, presented at: X International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, Belarus, May 30 - June 3, 2004
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy (USSR) 99 (3), 466 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406221
abstract: Based on macroscopic QED in linear, causal media, we present a consistent theory for the Casimir-Polder force acting on an atom positioned near dispersing and absorbing magnetodielectric bodies. The perturbative result for the van-der-Waals energy is shown to exhibit interesting new features in the presence of magnetodielectric bodies. To go beyond perturbation theory, we start with the center-of-mass equation of motion and derive a dynamical expression for the Casimir-Polder force acting on an atom prepared in an arbitrary electronic state. For a non-driven atom in the weak coupling regime, the force as a function of time is shown to be a superposition of force components that are related to the electronic density matrix elements at chosen time. These force components depend on the position-dependent polarizability of the atom that correctly accounts for the body-induced level shifts and broadenings.

id: quant-ph/0406222
title: Canonical and kinetic forms of the electromagnetic momentum in an ad hoc quantization scheme for a dispersive dielectric
authors: J. C. Garrison, R. Y. Chiao
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, aip style, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406222
abstract: An ad hoc quantization scheme for the electromagnetic field in a weakly dispersive, transparent dielectric leads to the definition of canonical and kinetic forms for the momentum of the electromagnetic field in a dispersive medium. The canonical momentum is uniquely defined as the operator that generates spatial translations in a uniform medium, but the quantization scheme suggests two possible choices for the kinetic momentum operator, corresponding to the Abraham or the Minkowski momentum in classical electrodynamics. Another implication of this procedure is that a wave packet containing a single dressed photon travels at the group velocity through the medium. The physical significance of the canonical momentum has already been established by considerations of energy and momentum conservation in the atomic recoil due to spontaneous emission, the Cerenkov effect, the Doppler effect, and phase matching in nonlinear optical processes. In addition, the data of the Jones and Leslie radiation pressure experiment is consistent with the assignment of one ?k unit of canonical momentum to each dressed photon. By contrast, experiments in which the dielectric is rigidly accelerated by unbalanced electromagnetic forces require the use of the Abraham momentum.

id: quant-ph/0406223
title: Locality and information transfer in quantum operations
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406223
abstract: We investigate the situation in which no information can be transferred from a quantum system B to a quantum system A, even though both interact with a common system C.

id: quant-ph/0406224
title: Quantum decoherence in a supersymmetric mechanical system
authors: T. Shi, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406224
abstract: We make a novel observation about the decoherence phenomenon of the fermion in the Witten's supersymmetric (SUSY) quantum mechanical model. It is shown that, when the bosonic partner in the SUNY model is unobservable in a certain energy scale, the quantum coherence meant by the superposition of fermion states can not be preserved for a long time due to the quantum decoherence induced by the overlooked boson. This refers to a supercharge superselection rule similar to the charge superselection. We numerically calculate the decoherence factor characterizing the extent of decoherence . The obtained result shows the periodic decoherence with finite quantum jump. Some analytic results under the harmonic approximation for the superpotential can be obtained to confirm the numerical calculations.

id: quant-ph/0406225
title: Complexity in Quantum System and Its Application to Brain Function
authors: Masanori Ohya
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: QUANTUM INFORMATION II, edited by T Hida & K Sait, Meijo University, 149-160, 1999
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406225
abstract: The complexity and the chaos degree can be used to examine the chaotic aspects of not only several nonlinear classical and quantum physical physics but also life sciences. We will construct a model describing the function of brain in the context of Quantum Information Dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0406226
title: Recognition and Teleportation
authors: K.-H. Fichtner, W. Freudenberg, M. Ohya
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Probability and White Noise analysis, 85-106, N.J., 2003. World Scientific
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406226
abstract: We study a possible function of brain, in particular, we try to describe several aspects of the process of recognition. In order to understand the fundamental parts of the recognition process, the quantum teleportation scheme seems to be useful. We consider a channel expression of the teleportation process that serves for a simplified description of the recognition process in brain.

id: quant-ph/0406227
title: A Description of Quantum Chaos
authors: Kei Inoue, Andrzej Kossakowski, Masanori Ohya
comments: 17pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406227
abstract: A measure describing the chaos of a dynamics was introduced by two complexities in information dynamics, and it is called the chaos degree. In particular, the entropic chaos degree has been used to characterized several dynamical maps such that logistis, Baker's, Tinckerbel's in classical or quantum systems. In this paper, we give a new treatment of quantum chaos by defining the entropic chaos degree for quantum transition dynamics, and we prove that every non-chaotic quantum dynamics, e.g., dissipative dynamics, has zero chaos degree. A quantum spin 1/2 system is studied by our chaos degree, and it is shown that this degree well describes the chaotic behavior of the spin system.

id: quant-ph/0406228
title: Mutual Entropy in Quantum Information and Information Genetics
authors: Masanori Ohya
comments: 26 pages
journal: QUANTUM INFORMATION, edited by T Hida & K Saito, 133-158, 1997
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406228
abstract: After Shannon, entropy becomes a fundamental quantity to describe not only uncertainity or chaos of a system but also information carried by the system. Shannon's important discovery is to give a mathematical expression of the mutual entropy (information), information transmitted from an input system to an output system, by which communication processes could be analyzed on the stage of mathematical science. In this paper, first we review the quantum mutual entropy and discuss its uses in quantum information theory, and secondly we show how the classical mutual entropy can be used to analyze genomes, in particular, those of HIV.

id: quant-ph/0406229
title: Information Dynamics and its Application to Recognition Process
authors: Masanori Ohya
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: A Garden of Quanta : Essays in Honor of Hiroshi Ezawa, World Scientific Pub Co Inc, 445-462, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406229
abstract: We touch the problem of finding simplified models for the recognition process. We are interested in how the input signal arriving at the brain is entangled (connected) to the memory already stored and the consciousness that existed in the brain, and how a part of the signal will be finally stored as a memory.

id: quant-ph/0406230
title: The 'quantum dialogue' can be eavesdropped under the intercept-and-resend attack
authors: ZhongXiao Man
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406230
abstract: In this comment we point out that the 'quantum dialogue' (Phys. Lett. A (in press); quant-ph/0406130) can be eavesdropped under the intercept-and-resend attack. We also give a revised control mode to detect this attack.

id: quant-ph/0406231
title: Nonlinear interaction of light with Bose-Einstein condensate: new methods to generate subpoissonian light
authors: S.M. Arakelyan, A.V. Prokhorov, I. Vadeiko
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406231
abstract: We consider $\Lambda$-type model of the Bose-Einstein condensate of sodium atoms interacting with the light. Coefficients of the Kerr-nonlinearity in the condensate can achieve large and negative values providing the possibility for effective control of group velocity and dispersion of the probe pulse. We find a regime when the observation of the "slow" and "fast" light propagating without absorption becomes achievable due to strong nonlinearity. An effective two-level quantum model of the system is derived and studied based on the su(2) polynomial deformation approach. We propose an efficient way for generation of subpoissonian fields in the Bose-Einstein condensate at time-scales much shorter than the characteristic decay time in the system. We show that the quantum properties of the probe pulse can be controlled in BEC by the classical coupling field.

id: quant-ph/0406232
title: Highly Nonclassical Quantum States and Environment Induced Decoherence
authors: Peter Foldi
comments: PhD thesis defended in 2003. 71 pages and 19 figures. Files with full quality figures can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406232
abstract: In this thesis concrete quantum systems are investigated in the framework of the environment induced decoherence. The focus is on the dynamics of highly nonclassical quantum states, the Wigner function of which are negative over some regions of their domains. One of the chosen physical systems is a diatomic molecule, where the potential energy of the nuclei is an anharmonic function of their distance. A system of two-level atoms, which can be important from the viewpoint of quantum information technology, is also investigated. A method is described that is valid in both systems and can determine the characteristic time of the decoherence in a dynamical way. The direction of the decoherence and its relation to energy dissipation is also studied. Finally, a scheme is proposed that can prepare decoherence-free states using the experimental techniques presently available.

id: quant-ph/0406233
title: A Path Integral Approach for Disordered Quantum Walks in One Dimension
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 9 pages, small corrections, journal reference added
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Vol.5, No.4, pp.529-537 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406233
abstract: The present letter gives a rigorous way from quantum to classical random walks by introducing an independent random fluctuation and then taking expectations based on a path integral approach.

id: quant-ph/0406234
title: Distillation of local purity from quantum states
authors: I. Devetak
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406234
abstract: Recently Horodecki et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 100402 (2003)] introduced an important quantum information processing paradigm, in which two parties sharing many copies of the same bipartite quantum state distill local pure states, by means of local unitary operations assisted by a one-way (two-way) completely dephasing channel. Local pure states are a valuable resource from a thermodynamical point of view, since they allow thermal energy to be converted into work by local quantum heat engines. We give a simple information-theoretical characterization of the one-way distillable local purity, which turns out to be closely related to a previously known operational measure of classical correlations, the one-way distillable common randomness.

id: quant-ph/0406235
title: Ergodic quantum computing
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan
comments: latex, 25 pages, 10 figures (colored)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406235
abstract: We propose a (theoretical ;-) model for quantum computation where the result can be read out from the time average of the Hamiltonian dynamics of a 2-dimensional crystal on a cylinder. The Hamiltonian is a spatially local interaction among Wigner-Seitz cells containing 6 qubits. The quantum circuit that is simulated is specified by the initialization of program qubits. As in Margolus' Hamiltonian cellular automaton (implementing classical circuits), a propagating wave in a clock register controls asynchronously the application of the gates. However, in our approach all required initializations are basis states. After a while the synchronizing wave is essentially spread around the whole crystal. The circuit is designed such that the result is available with probability about 1/4 despite of the completely undefined computation step. This model reduces quantum computing to preparing basis states for some qubits, waiting, and measuring in the computational basis. Even though it may be unlikely to find our specific Hamiltonian in real solids, it is possible that also more natural interactions allow ergodic quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0406236
title: Noise models for superoperators in the chord representation
authors: Mario Leandro Aolita, Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 8 pages, 5 .ps figures (RevTeX4). Submitted to Phys. Rev. A. minor changes made, according to referee suggestions
journal: Phys.Rev.A 70, 062301 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406236
abstract: We study many-qubit generalizations of quantum noise channels that can be written as an incoherent sum of translations in phase space. Physical description in terms of the spectral properties of the superoperator and the action in phase space are provided. A very natural description of decoherence leading to a preferred basis is achieved with diffusion along a phase space line. The numerical advantages of using the chord representation are illustrated in the case of coarse-graining noise.

id: quant-ph/0406237
title: Extremal covariant POVM's
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 45, 4435 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406237
abstract: We consider the convex set of positive operator valued measures (POVM) which are covariant under a finite dimensional unitary projective representation of a group. We derive a general characterization for the extremal points, and provide bounds for the ranks of the corresponding POVM densities, also relating extremality to uniqueness and stability of optimized measurements. Examples of applications are given.

id: quant-ph/0406238
title: Probabilistic aspects of Wigner function
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: X International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, BELARUS, May 30 - June 3, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406238
abstract: The Wigner function of quantum systems is an effective instrument to construct the approximate classical description of the systems for which the classical approximation is possible. During the last time, the Wigner function formalism is applied as well to seek indications of specific quantum properties of quantum systems leading to impossibility of the classical approximation construction. Most of all, as such an indication the existence of negative values in Wigner function for specific states of the quantum system being studied is used. The existence of such values itself prejudices the probabilistic interpretation of the Wigner function, though for an arbitrary observable depending jointly on the coordinate and the momentum of the quantum system just the Wigner function gives an effective instrument to calculate the average value and the other statistical characteristics. In this paper probabilistic interpretation of the Wigner function based on coordination of theoretical-probabilistic definition of the probability density, with restrictions to a physically small domain of phase space due to the uncertainty principle, is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0406239
title: Quantum Process Tomography of the Quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Timothy F. Havel, Joseph Emerson, Nicolas Boulant, Marcos Saraceno, Seth Lloyd, David G. Cory
comments: 26 pages, 17 figures, four tables; in press, Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 121(13), 6117-6133 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0406239
abstract: The results of quantum process tomography on a three-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor are presented, and shown to be consistent with a detailed model of the system-plus-apparatus used for the experiments. The quantum operation studied was the quantum Fourier transform, which is important in several quantum algorithms and poses a rigorous test for the precision of our recently-developed strongly modulating control fields. The results were analyzed in an attempt to decompose the implementation errors into coherent (overall systematic), incoherent (microscopically deterministic), and decoherent (microscopically random) components. This analysis yielded a superoperator consisting of a unitary part that was strongly correlated with the theoretically expected unitary superoperator of the quantum Fourier transform, an overall attenuation consistent with decoherence, and a residual portion that was not completely positive - although complete positivity is required for any quantum operation. By comparison with the results of computer simulations, the lack of complete positivity was shown to be largely a consequence of the incoherent errors during the quantum process tomography procedure. These simulations further showed that coherent, incoherent, and decoherent errors can often be identified by their distinctive effects on the spectrum of the overall superoperator. The gate fidelity of the experimentally determined superoperator was 0.64, while the correlation coefficient between experimentally determined superoperator and the simulated superoperator was 0.79; most of the discrepancies with the simulations could be explained by the cummulative effect of small errors in the single qubit gates.

id: astro-ph/0406473
title: The exotic $H_3^{2+}$ ion in a strong magnetic field. Linear configuration
authors: A. V. Turbiner, J. C. Lpez Vieyra, N. L. Guevara
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.A72:023403,2005
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0406473
abstract: An accurate study of the lowest $1\sigma_g$ and the low-lying excited $1\sigma_u$, $1\pi_{u,g}$, $1\delta_{g,u}$ electronic states of the exotic molecular ion $H_3^{2+}$ in linear configuration parallel to a magnetic field is carried out. The magnetic field ranges from $10^{10}$ G up to $4.414 \times 10^{13}$ G where non-relativistic considerations are justified. The variational method is exploited and the {\it same} trial function is used for different magnetic fields. It is shown that the states of positive $z$-parity $1\sigma_g, 1\pi_u, 1\delta_{g}$ are bound states of the $H_3^{2+}$ exotic ion for all magnetic fields studied. We also demonstrate that for magnetic fields $B\gtrsim 2.35\times 10^{12}$ G the potential energy surface well corresponding to the $1\sigma_g$ state contains at least one longitudinal vibrational state. It is also shown that the negative $z$-parity states $1\sigma_u, 1\pi_g, 1\delta_{u}$, are purely repulsive in the whole range of magnetic fields studied, $B=10^{10}- 4.414 \times 10^{13}$ G.

id: cond-mat/0406010
title: Quantum interference in resonant tunneling and single spin measurements
authors: S.A. Gurvitz
comments: Some corrections are made. This paper is based on work presented at the 2004 IEEE NTC Quantum Device Technology Workshop
journal: IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, v. 4, p. 45, 2005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406010
abstract: We consider the resonant tunneling through a multi-level system. It is demonstrated that the resonant current displays quantum interference effects due to a possibility of tunneling through different levels. We show that the interference effects are strongly modulated by a relative phase of states carrying the current. This makes it possible to use these effects for measuring the phase difference between resonant states in quantum dots. We extend our model for a description of magnetotransport through the Zeeman doublets. It is shown that, due to spin-flip transitions, the quantum interference effects generate a distinct peak in the shot-noise power spectrum at the frequency of Zeeman splitting. This mechanism explains modulation in the tunneling current at the Larmor frequency observed in scanning tunneling microscope experiments and can be utilized for a single spin measurement.

id: cond-mat/0406058
title: Generation of Squeezed States of Nanomechanical Resonators by Reservoir Engineering
authors: P. Rabl, A. Shnirman, P. Zoller
comments: 13 pages,9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 205304 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406058
abstract: An experimental demonstration of a non-classical state of a nanomechanical resonator is still an outstanding task. In this paper we show how the resonator can be cooled and driven into a squeezed state by a bichromatic microwave coupling to a charge qubit. The stationary oscillator state exhibits a reduced noise in one of the quadrature components by a factor of 0.5 - 0.2. These values are obtained for a 100 MHz resonator with a Q-value of 10$^4$ to 10$^5$ and for support temperatures of T $\approx$ 25 mK. We show that the coupling to the charge qubit can also be used to detect the squeezed state via measurements of the excited state population. Furthermore, by extending this measurement procedure a complete quantum state tomography of the resonator state can be performed. This provides a universal tool to detect a large variety of different states and to prove the quantum nature of a nanomechanical oscillator.

id: cond-mat/0406079
title: Wigner crystallization in a polarizable medium
authors: G. Rastelli, S. Ciuchi
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures v1.3
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 184303 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406079
abstract: We present a variational study of the 2D and 3D Wigner crystal phase of large polarons. The method generalizes that introduced by S. Fratini,P.\ Qu{\'{e}}merais [Mod. Phys. Lett. B {\bf 12} 1003 (1998)]. We take into account the Wigner crystal normal modes rather than a single mean frequency in the minimization procedure of the variational free energy. We calculate the renormalized modes of the crystal as well as the charge polarization correlation function and polaron radius. The solid phase boundaries are determined via a Lindemann criterion, suitably generalized to take into account the classical-to-quantum cross-over. In the weak electron-phonon coupling limit, the Wigner crystal parameters are renormalized by the electron-phonon interaction leading to a stabilization of the solid phase for low polarizability of the medium. Conversely, at intermediate and strong coupling, the behavior of the system depends strongly on the polarizability of the medium. For weakly polarizable media, a density crossover occurs inside the solid phase when the renormalized plasma frequency approaches the phonon frequency. At low density, we have a renormalized polaron Wigner crystal, while at higher densities the electron-phonon interaction is weakened irrespective of the {\it bare} electron-phonon coupling. For strongly polarizable media, the system behaves as a Lorentz lattice of dipoles. The abrupt softening of the internal polaronic frequency predicted by Fratini and Quemerais is observed near the actual melting point only at very strong coupling, leading to a possible liquid polaronic phase for a wider range of parameters.

id: cond-mat/0406086
title: Quasiparticle universes in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures; invited brief review for Modern Physics Letters A, as published
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 1789-1812
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406086
abstract: Recent developments in simulating fundamental quantum field theoretical effects in the kinematical context of analogue gravity are reviewed. Specifically, it is argued that a curved space-time generalization of the Unruh-Davies effect -- the Gibbons-Hawking effect in the de Sitter space-time of inflationary cosmological models -- can be implemented and verified in an ultracold gas of bosonic atoms.

id: cond-mat/0406100
title: Spectral densities and partition functions of modular quantum systems as derived from a central limit theorem
authors: Michael Hartmann, Guenter Mahler, Ortwin Hess
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, some steps added to derivation, accepted for publication in J. Stat. Phys
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 119, p. 1139-1151 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406100
abstract: Using a central limit theorem for arrays of interacting quantum systems, we give analytical expressions for the density of states and the partition function at finite temperature of such a system, which are valid in the limit of infinite number of subsystems. Even for only small numbers of subsystems we find good accordance with some known, exact results.

id: cond-mat/0406102
title: Charge Transport in a Quantum Electromechanical System
authors: D. Wahyu Utami, Hsi-Sheng Goan, G.J. Milburn
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. B., 13 pages, single column
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406102
abstract: We describe a quantum electromechanical system(QEMS) comprising a single quantum dot harmonically bound between two electrodes and facilitating a tunneling current between them. An example of such a system is a fullerene molecule between two metal electrodes [Park et al., Nature, 407, 57 (2000)]. The description is based on a quantum master equation for the density operator of the electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom and thus incorporates the dynamics of both diagonal (population) and off diagonal (coherence) terms. We derive coupled equations of motion for the electron occupation number of the dot and the vibrational degrees of freedom, including damping of the vibration and thermo-mechanical noise. This dynamical description is related to observable features of the system including the stationary current as a function of bias voltage.

id: cond-mat/0406135
title: Quantum-to-classical crossover of quasi-bound states in open quantum systems
authors: Henning Schomerus, Jakub Tworzydlo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, corrected misprint in Eqs (6,7), minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 154102 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406135
abstract: In the semiclassical limit of open ballistic quantum systems, we demonstrate the emergence of instantaneous decay modes guided by classical escape faster than the Ehrenfest time. The decay time of the associated quasi-bound states is smaller than the classical time of flight. The remaining long-lived quasi-bound states obey random-matrix statistics, renormalized in compliance with the recently proposed fractal Weyl law for open systems [W. T. Lu, S. Sridhar, and M. Zworski, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 154101 (2003)]. We validate our theory numerically for a model system, the open kicked rotator.

id: cond-mat/0406167
title: Single-qubit gates and measurements in the surface acoustic wave quantum computer
authors: S. Furuta, C. H. W. Barnes, C. J. L. Doran
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406167
abstract: In the surface acoustic wave quantum computer, the spin state of an electron trapped in a moving quantum dot comprises the physical qubit of the scheme. Via detailed analytic and numerical modeling of the qubit dynamics, we discuss the effect of excitations into higher-energy orbital states of the quantum dot that occur when the qubits pass through magnetic fields. We describe how single-qubit quantum operations, such as single-qubit rotations and single-qubit measurements, can be performed using only localized static magnetic fields. The models provide useful parameter regimes to be explored experimentally when the requirements on semiconductor gate fabrication and the nanomagnetics technology are met in the future.

id: cond-mat/0406190
title: Exactly-solvable models for atom-molecule hamiltonians
authors: J. Dukelsky, G. G. Dussel, C. Esebbag, S. Pittel
comments: To be published by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.93:050403,2004
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406190
abstract: We present a family of exactly-solvable generalizations of the Jaynes-Cummings model involving the interaction of an ensemble of SU(2) or SU(1,1) quasi-spins with a single boson field. They are obtained from the trigonometric Richardson-Gaudin models by replacing one of the SU(2) or SU(1,1) degrees of freedom by an ideal boson. Application to a system of bosonic atoms and molecules is reported.

id: cond-mat/0406342
title: Monte Carlo Method for a Quantum Measurement Process by a Single-Electron Transistor
authors: Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 7 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 075305 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406342
abstract: We derive the quantum trajectory or stochastic (conditional) master equation for a single superconducting Cooper-pair box (SCB) charge qubit measured by a single-electron transistor (SET) detector. This stochastic master equation describes the random evolution of the measured SCB qubit density matrix which both conditions and is conditioned on a particular realization of the measured electron tunneling events through the SET junctions. Hence it can be regarded as a Monte Carlo method that allows us to simulate the continuous quantum measurement process. We show that the master equation for the "partially" reduced density matrix [Y. Makhlin et.al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4578 (2000)] can be obtained when a "partial" average is taken on the stochastic master equation over the fine grained measurement records of the tunneling events in the SET. Finally, we present some Monte Carlo simulation results for the SCB/SET measurement process. We also analyze the probability distribution P(m,t) of finding m electrons that have tunneled into the drain of the SET in time t to demonstrate the connection between the quantum trajectory approach and the "partially" reduced density matrix approach.

id: cond-mat/0406416
title: Quantum Nondemolition Squeezing of a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Keith Schwab, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Nanotech. 4, 132 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406416
abstract: We show that the nanoresonator position can be squeezed significantly below the ground state level by measuring the nanoresonator with a quantum point contact or a single-electron transistor and applying a periodic voltage across the detector. The mechanism of squeezing is basically a generalization of quantum nondemolition measurement of an oscillator to the case of continuous measurement by a weakly coupled detector. The quantum feedback is necessary to prevent the ``heating'' due to measurement back-action. We also discuss a procedure of experimental verification of the squeezed state.

id: cond-mat/0406426
title: Matrix Product Density Operators: Simulation of finite-T and dissipative systems
authors: F. Verstraete, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, J. I. Cirac
comments: See also M. Zwolak et al. cond-mat/0406440
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 207204 (2004)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406426
abstract: We show how to simulate numerically both the evolution of 1D quantum systems under dissipation as well as in thermal equilibrium. The method applies to both finite and inhomogeneous systems and it is based on two ideas: (a) a representation for density operators which extends that of matrix product states to mixed states; (b) an algorithm to approximate the evolution (in real or imaginary time) of such states which is variational (and thus optimal) in nature.

id: cond-mat/0406440
title: Mixed-state dynamics in one-dimensional quantum lattice systems: a time-dependent superoperator renormalization algorithm
authors: Michael Zwolak, Guifre Vidal
comments: See also F. Verstraete et al. cond-mat/0406426
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 207205 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406440
abstract: We present an algorithm to study mixed-state dynamics in one-dimensional quantum lattice systems. The algorithm can be used, e.g., to construct thermal states or to simulate real time evolutions given by a generic master equation. Its two main ingredients are (i) a superoperator renormalization scheme to efficiently describe the state of the system and (ii) the time evolving block decimation (TEBD) technique to efficiently update the state during a time evolution. The computational cost of a simulation increases significantly with the amount of correlations between subsystems but it otherwise depends only linearly in the system size. We present simulations involving quantum spins and fermions in one spatial dimension.

id: cond-mat/0406470
title: Quantum simulation of cosmic inflation in two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Ralf Schtzhold
comments: 8 pages of RevTex4, 1 figure; added explanatory material, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 063615
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406470
abstract: Generalizing the one-component case, we demonstrate that the propagation of sound waves in two-component Bose-Einstein condensates can also be described in terms of effective sonic geometries under appropriate conditions. In comparison with the one-component case, the two-component setup offers more flexibility and several advantages. In view of these advantages, we propose an experiment in which the evolution of the inflaton field, and thereby the generation of density quantum fluctuations in the very early stages of our universe during inflation, can be simulated, realizing a {\em quantum simulation via analogue gravity models}.

id: cond-mat/0406481
title: Entanglement dynamics in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: J. Vidal, G. Palacios, Cl. Aslangul
comments: 11 pages, 11 EPS figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A70:062304,2004
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406481
abstract: The dynamics of the one-tangle and the concurrence is analyzed in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model which describes many physical systems such as the two-mode Bose-Einstein condensates. We consider two different initial states which are physically relevant and show that their entanglement dynamics are very different. A semiclassical analysis is used to compute the one-tangle which measures the entanglement of one spin with all the others, whereas the frozen-spin approximation allows us to compute the concurrence using its mapping onto the spin squeezing parameter.

id: cond-mat/0406502
title: Coherent Nuclear Radiation
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Review, 59 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Part. Nucl. 35 (2004) 348-382
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406502
abstract: The main part of this review is devoted to the comprehensive description of coherent radiation by nuclear spins. The theory of nuclear spin superradiance is developed and the experimental observations of this phenomenon are considered. The intriguing problem of how coherence develops from initially incoherent quantum fluctuations is analysed. All main types of coherent radiation by nuclear spins are discussed, which are: free nuclear induction, collective induction, maser generation, pure superradiance, triggered superradiance, pulsing superradiance, punctuated superradiance, and induced emission. The influence of electron-nuclear hyperfine interactions and the role of magnetic anisotropy are studied. Conditions for realizing spin superradiance by magnetic molecules are investigated. The possibility of nuclear matter lasing, accompanied by pion or dibaryon radiation, is briefly touched.

id: cond-mat/0406529
title: Quantum Nondemolition Measurement of a Kicked Qubit
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Markus Buttiker
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 125333 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406529
abstract: We propose a quantum nondemolition measurement using a kicked two-state system (qubit). By tuning the waiting time between kicks to be the qubit oscillation period, the kicking apparatus performs a nondemolition measurement. While dephasing is unavoidable, the nondemolition measurement can (1) slow relaxation of diagonal density matrix elements, (2) avoid detector back-action, and (3) allow for a large signal-to-noise ratio. Deviations from the ideal behavior are studied by allowing for detuning of the waiting time, as well as finite-time, noisy pulses. The scheme is illustrated with a double-dot qubit measured by a gate-pulsed quantum point contact.

id: cond-mat/0406536
title: Quantum-Limited Position Detection and Amplification: A Linear Response Perspective
authors: A. A. Clerk
comments: 9 pages; minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 245306 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406536
abstract: Using standard linear response relations, we derive the quantum limit on the sensitivity of a generic linear-response position detector, and the noise temperature of a generic linear amplifier. Particular emphasis is placed on the detector's effective temperature and damping effects; the former quantity directly determines the dimensionless power gain of the detector. Unlike the approach used in the seminal work of Caves [Phys. Rev. D, 26, 1817 (1982)], the linear-response approach directly involves the noise properties of the detector, and allows one to derive simple necessary and sufficient conditions for reaching the quantum limit. Our results have direct relevance to recent experiments on nanoelectromechanical systems, and complement recent theoretical studies of particular mesoscopic position detectors.

id: cond-mat/0406627
title: Atom-dimer scattering for confined ultracold fermion gases
authors: C. Mora, R. Egger, A.O. Gogolin, A. Komnik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; to appear in PRL (revised version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170403 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406627
abstract: We solve the three-body problem of an ultracold Fermi gas with parabolic confinement length $a_\perp$ and 3D scattering length $a$. On the two-body level, there is a Feshbach-type resonance at $a_\perp/a\approx 1.46$, and a dimer state for arbitrary $a_\perp/a$. The three-body problem is shown to be universal, an d described by the atom-dimer scattering length $a_{ad}$ and a range parameter $b_{ad}$. In the dimer limit $a_\perp/a\gg 1$, we find a repulsive zero-range atom-dimer interaction. For $a_\perp/a\ll -1$, however, the potential has long range, with $a_{ad}>0$ and $b_{ad}\gg a_{ad}$. There is no trimer state, and despite $a_{ad}=0$ at $a_\perp/a\approx 2.6$, there is no resonance enhancement of the interaction.

id: cond-mat/0406674
title: Direct equivalence between quantum phase transition phenomena in radiation-matter and magnetic systems: scaling of entanglement
authors: Jos Reslen, Luis Quiroga, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes. Published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 69, 8 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406674
abstract: We show that the quantum phase transition arising in a standard radiation-matter model (Dicke model) belongs to the same universality class as the infinitely-coordinated, transverse field XY model. The effective qubit-qubit exchange interaction is shown to be proportional to the square of the qubit-radiation coupling. A universal finite-size scaling is derived for the corresponding two-qubit entanglement (concurrence) and a size-consistent effective Hamiltonian is proposed for the qubit subsystem.

id: cond-mat/0406737
title: Entanglement entropy of random quantum critical points in one dimension
authors: G. Refael, J. E. Moore
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 260602 (2004)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406737
abstract: For quantum critical spin chains without disorder, it is known that the entanglement of a segment of N>>1 spins with the remainder is logarithmic in N with a prefactor fixed by the central charge of the associated conformal field theory. We show that for a class of strongly random quantum spin chains, the same logarithmic scaling holds for mean entanglement at criticality and defines a critical entropy equivalent to central charge in the pure case. This effective central charge is obtained for Heisenberg, XX, and quantum Ising chains using an analytic real-space renormalization group approach believed to be asymptotically exact. For these random chains, the effective universal central charge is characteristic of a universality class and is consistent with a c-theorem.

id: cond-mat/0406748
title: A lossy transmission line as a quantum open system in the standard quantum limit
authors: Y. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0406748
abstract: We systematically investigate how to quantize a transmission line resonator (TLR) in a mesoscopic electrical circuits in the presence of the resistance and the conductance of the dielectric media. Developed from the quantum bath based effective Hamiltonian method for single mode harmonic oscillator, the approach we presented in this article is a microscopic theory integrating quantum fluctuation-dissipation relation. To qualitatively check the condition under which the TLR can behave as a quantum object we study the classical-quantum boundary characterized by the standard quantum limit.

id: cs/0406001
title: Side-Information Coding with Turbo Codes and its Application to Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Kim-Chi Nguyen, Gilles Van Assche, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 3 pages, submitted to ISITA 2004
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0406001
abstract: Turbo coding is a powerful class of forward error correcting codes, which can achieve performances close to the Shannon limit. The turbo principle can be applied to the problem of side-information source coding, and we investigate here its application to the reconciliation problem occurring in a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol.

id: gr-qc/0406043
title: Spin-Statistics connection and the gravity of the Universe: The Cosmic connection
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: LaTex, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0406043
abstract: I suggest that the Spin-Statistics connection is a consequence of the phase shifts on quantum scattering amplitudes due to the induced gravitomagnetic field of the whole Universe at critical density. This connection was recently brought out in the context of a new theory of relativity in flat space with matter, called Cosmic Relativity (gr-qc/0406023). This prediction of the correct gravitational phases is a consequence of any relativistic gravitation theory in the presence of the massive Universe. This can also be interpreted as related to the Mach's principle applied to quantum phenomena. Perhaps this is the simplest valid proof of the Spin-Statistics Theorem, and it finally identifies the physical origin of the connection.

id: gr-qc/0406054
title: Quantum mechanics without spacetime IV : a noncommutative Hamilton-Jacobi equation
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0406054
abstract: It has earlier been argued that there should exist a formulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to a background spacetime. In this paper we propose that, for a relativistic particle, such a formulation is provided by a noncommutative generalisation of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation. If a certain form for the metric in the noncommuting coordinate system is assumed, along with a correspondence rule for the commutation relations, it can be argued that this noncommutative Hamilton-Jacobi equation is equivalent to standard quantum mechanics.

id: gr-qc/0406066
title: Effects of Quantum Stress Tensor Fluctuations with Compact Extra Dimensions
authors: J. Borgman, L.H. Ford
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 127701
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0406066
abstract: The effects of compact extra dimensions upon quantum stress tensor fluctuations are discussed. It is argued that as the compactification volume decrease, these fluctuations increase in magnitude. In principle, this would have the potential to create observable effects, such as luminosity fluctuations or angular blurring of distant sources, and lead to constraints upon Kaluza-Klein theories. However, the dependence of the four-dimensional Newton's constant upon the compactification volume causes the gravitational effects of the stress tensor fluctuations to be finite in the limit of small volume. Consequently, no observational constraints upon Kaluza-Klein theories are obtained.

id: gr-qc/0406121
title: Theory of Quantum Space-Time
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond. A461 (2005) 2679-2699
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0406121
abstract: A generalised equivalence principle is put forward according to which space-time symmetries and internal quantum symmetries are indistinguishable before symmetry breaking. Based on this principle, a higher-dimensional extension of Minkowski space is proposed and its properties examined. In this scheme the structure of space-time is intrinsically quantum mechanical. It is shown that the causal geometry of such a quantum space-time possesses a rich hierarchical structure. The natural extension of the Poincare group to quantum space-time is investigated. In particular, we prove that the symmetry group of a quantum space-time is generated in general by a system of irreducible Killing tensors. When the symmetries of a quantum space-time are spontaneously broken, then the points of the quantum space-time can be interpreted as space-time valued operators. The generic point of a quantum space-time in the broken symmetry phase thus becomes a Minkowski space-time valued operator. Classical space-time emerges as a map from quantum space-time to Minkowski space. It is shown that the general such map satisfying appropriate causality-preserving conditions ensuring linearity and Poincare invariance is necessarily a density matrix.

id: hep-th/0406024
title: The Casimir effect: Recent controversies and progress
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 80 pages, 7 eps figures, uses iopart.cls and iopams.sty
journal: J.Phys.A37:R209,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406024
abstract: The phenomena implied by the existence of quantum vacuum fluctuations, grouped under the title of the Casimir effect, are reviewed, with emphasis on new results discovered in the past four years. The Casimir force between parallel plates is rederived as the strong-coupling limit of $\delta$-function potential planes. The role of surface divergences is clarified. A summary of effects relevant to measurements of the Casimir force between real materials is given, starting from a geometrical optics derivation of the Lifshitz formula, and including a rederivation of the Casimir-Polder forces. A great deal of attention is given to the recent controversy concerning temperature corrections to the Casimir force between real metal surfaces. A summary of new improvements to the proximity force approximation is given, followed by a synopsis of the current experimental situation. New results on Casimir self-stress are reported, again based on $\delta$- function potentials. Progress in understanding divergences in the self-stress of dielectric bodies is described, in particular the status of a continuing calculation of the self-stress of a dielectric cylinder. Casimir effects for solitons, and the status of the so-called dynamical Casimir effect, are summarized. The possibilities of understanding dark energy, strongly constrained by both cosmological and terrestrial experiments, in terms of quantum fluctuations are discussed. Throughout, the centrality of quantum vacuum energy in fundamental physics in emphasized.

id: hep-th/0406062
title: An Abraham-Lorentz-like Equation for the Electron from the Worldline Variational Approach to QED
authors: R. Rosenfelder, A. W. Schreiber
comments: LATeX, 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J. C37 (2004) 161-171
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406062
abstract: The variational equation for the mean square displacement of the electron in the polaron worldline approach to quenched QED can be cast into a form which closely resembles the classical Abraham-Lorentz equation but without the conceptual and practical diseases of the latter. The connection with delay equations describing field retardation effects is also established. As applications we solve this integro-differential equation numerically for various values of the coupling constant and cut-off and re-derive the variational approximation to the anomalous mass dimension of the electron found recently.

id: hep-th/0406063
title: Twistorial Analyticity and Three Stringy Systems of the Kerr Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 14 p. latex, English improved and misprint in reference corrected
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 086006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406063
abstract: The Kerr spinning particle has a remarkable analytical twistorial structure. Analyzing electromagnetic excitations of the Kerr circular string which are aligned to this structure, we obtain a simple stringy skeleton of the spinning particle which is formed by a topological coupling of the Kerr circular singular string and by an axial singular stringy system. We show that the chiral traveling waves, related to an orientifold world-sheet of the axial stringy system, are described by the massive Dirac equation, so we argue that the axial string may play the part of a stringy carrier of wave function and play also a dominant role in the scattering processes. A key role of the third, {\it complex} Kerr string is discussed. We conjecture that it may be one more alternative to the Witten twistor string, and a relation to the spinor helicity formalism is also discussed.

id: hep-th/0406067
title: Exact solution for a fermion in the background of a scalar inversely linear potential
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A328 (2004) 289-298
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406067
abstract: The problem of a fermion subject to a general scalar potential in a two-dimensional world is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville problem for nonzero eigenenergies. The searching for possible bounded solutions is done in the circumstance of power-law potentials. The normalizable zero-eigenmode solutions are also searched. For the specific case of an inversely linear potential, which gives rise to an effective Kratzer potential, exact bounded solutions are found in closed form. The behaviour of the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor is discussed in detail and some unusual results are revealed.

id: hep-th/0406073
title: Three-cocycles, Nonassociative Gauge Transformations and Dirac's Monopole
authors: Alexander I Nesterov
comments: Typos removed. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A328 (2004) 110-115
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406073
abstract: The relation between 3-cocycles arising in the Dirac monopole problem and nonassociative gauge transformations is studied. It is shown that nonassociative extension of the group U(1) allows to obtain a consistent theory of pointlike magnetic monopole with an arbitrary magnetic charge.

id: hep-th/0406099
title: Revisiting the Fradkin-Vilkovisky Theorem
authors: J. Govaerts, F. G. Scholtz
comments: 21 pages, no figures, to appear in Jnl. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 7359-7380
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406099
abstract: The status of the usual statement of the Fradkin-Vilkovisky theorem, claiming complete independence of the Batalin-Fradkin-Vilkovisky path integral on the gauge fixing "fermion" even within a nonperturbative context, is critically reassessed. Basic, but subtle reasons why this statement cannot apply as such in a nonperturbative quantisation of gauge invariant theories are clearly identified. A criterion for admissibility within a general class of gauge fixing conditions is provided for a large ensemble of simple gauge invariant systems. This criterion confirms the conclusions of previous counter-examples to the usual statement of the Fradkin-Vilkovisky theorem.

id: hep-th/0406125
title: Unitary Quantum Physics with Time-Space Noncommutativity
authors: A. P. Balachandran, T. R. Govindarajan, C. Molina, P. Teotonio-Sobrinho
comments: 18 pages, published version
journal: JHEP0410:072,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406125
abstract: In this work quantum physics in noncommutative spacetime is developed. It is based on the work of Doplicher et al. which allows for time-space noncommutativity. The Moyal plane is treated in detail. In the context of noncommutative quantum mechanics, some important points are explored, such as the formal construction of the theory, symmetries, causality, simultaneity and observables. The dynamics generated by a noncommutative Schrodinger equation is studied. We prove in particular the following: suppose the Hamiltonian of a quantum mechanical particle on spacetime has no explicit time dependence, and the spatial coordinates commute in its noncommutative form (the only noncommutativity being between time and a space coordinate). Then the commutative and noncommutative versions of the Hamiltonian have identical spectra.

id: hep-th/0406260
title: Realistic clocks, universal decoherence and the black hole information paradox
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 3 Pages, RevTex, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 240401
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0406260
abstract: Ordinary quantum mechanics is formulated on the basis of the existence of an ideal classical clock external to the system under study. This is clearly an idealization. As emphasized originally by Salecker and Wigner and more recently by other authors, there exist limits in nature to how ``classical'' even the best possible clock can be. When one introduces realistic clocks, quantum mechanics ceases to be unitary and a fundamental mechanism of decoherence of quantum states arises. We estimate the rate of universal loss of unitarity using optimal realistic clocks. In particular we observe that the rate is rapid enough to eliminate the black hole information puzzle: all information is lost through the fundamental decoherence before the black hole can evaporate. This improves on a previous calculation we presented with a sub-optimal clock in which only part of the information was lost by the time of evaporation.

id: math-ph/0406010
title: A simple proof of the Jamiolkowski criterion for complete positivity of linear maps
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez, M. Ferrero
comments: 12 pages (double space), no figures. Some points further clarified
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406010
abstract: We give a simple direct proof of the Jamiolkowski criterion to check whether a linear map between matrix algebras is completely positive or not. This proof is more accesible for physicists than others found in the literature and provides a systematic method to give any set of Kraus matrices of its Kraus decomposition.

id: math-ph/0406012
title: L2 series solutions of the Dirac equation for power-law potentials at rest mass energy
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 13 pages, 1 Table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. & Gen. 37, 11229 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406012
abstract: We obtain solutions of the three dimensional Dirac equation for radial power-law potentials at rest mass energy as an infinite series of square integrable functions. These are written in terms of the confluent hypergeometric function and chosen such that the matrix representation of the Dirac operator is tridiagonal. The "wave equation" results in a three-term recursion relation for the expansion coefficients of the spinor wavefunction which is solved in terms of orthogonal polynomials. These are modified versions of the Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials and of the continuous dual Hahn polynomials. The choice depends on the values of the angular momentum and the power of the potential.

id: math-ph/0406017
title: An isoperimetric problem for point interactions
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX 2e, 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A38 (2005), 4795-4802
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406017
abstract: We consider Hamiltonian with $N$ point interactions in $\R^d, d=2,3,$ all with the same coupling constant, placed at vertices of an equilateral polygon $\PP_N$. It is shown that the ground state energy is locally maximized by a regular polygon. The question whether the maximum is global is reduced to an interesting geometric problem.

id: math-ph/0406022
title: On quantum integrability and Hamiltonians with pure point spectrum
authors: A. Enciso, D. Peralta-Salas
comments: 14 pages
journal: An extended and improved version has been published in Theor. Math. Phys. 148 (2006) 1086
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406022
abstract: We prove that any $n$-dimensional Hamiltonian operator with pure point spectrum is completely integrable via self-adjoint first integrals. Furthermore, we establish that given any closed set $\Sigma\subset\mathbb R$ there exists an integrable $n$-dimensional Hamiltonian which realizes it as its spectrum. We develop several applications of these results and discuss their implications in the general framework of quantum integrability.

id: math-ph/0406024
title: p-Adic wavelet transform and quantum physics
authors: M.V.Altaisky
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, 2 eps Figures, Talk at 1st Int. Conf. on $p$-Adic Mathematical Physics, Moscow, Oct 1-5, 2003
journal: Short version: Proc. Steklov Math. Inst. (2004) vol. 245, pp. 34-39 (eng), pp. 41-46(rus)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406024
abstract: p-Adic wavelet transform is considered as a possible tool for the description of hierarchic quantum systems

id: math-ph/0406030
title: Simple Proof for Global Existence of Bohmian Trajectories
authors: Stefan Teufel, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 18 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 258 (2005) 349-365
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0406030
abstract: We address the question whether Bohmian trajectories exist for all times. Bohmian trajectories are solutions of an ordinary differential equation involving a wavefunction obeying either the Schroedinger or the Dirac equation. Some trajectories may end in finite time, for example by running into a node of the wavefunction, where the law of motion is ill-defined. The aim is to show, under suitable assumptions on the initial wavefunction and the potential, global existence of almost all solutions. We provide a simpler and more transparent proof of the known global existence result for spinless Schroedinger particles and extend the result to particles with spin, to the presence of magnetic fields, and to Dirac wavefunctions. Our main new result are conditions on the current vector field on configuration-space-time which are sufficient for almost-sure global existence.

id: math/0406399
title: The Casimir Effect Between Non-Parallel Plates by Geometric Optics
authors: Brendan Guilfoyle, Wilhelm Klingenberg, Siddhartha Sen
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures, AMS-LATEX
journal: Rev.Math.Phys. 17 (2005) 859-880
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0406399
abstract: Recent work by Jaffe and Scardicchio has expressed the optical approximation to the Casimir effect as a sum over geometric quantities. The first two authors have developed a technique which uses the complex geometry of the space of oriented affine lines in ${\Bbb{R}}^3$ to describe reflection of rays off a surface. This allows the quantities in the optical approximation to the Casimir effect to be calculated. To illustrate this we determine explicitly and in closed form the geometric optics approximation of the Casimir force between two non-parallel plates. By making one of the plates finite we regularise the divergence that is caused by the intersection of the planes. In the parallel plate limit we prove that our expression reduces to Casimir's original result.

id: nucl-th/0406008
title: Effective theories of scattering with an attractive inverse-square potential and the three-body problem
authors: Thomas Barford, Michael C. Birse
comments: 19 pages (RevTeX), 2 figures
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 697-720
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0406008
abstract: A distorted-wave version of the renormalisation group is applied to scattering by an inverse-square potential and to three-body systems. In attractive three-body systems, the short-distance wave function satisfies a Schroedinger equation with an attractive inverse-square potential, as shown by Efimov. The resulting oscillatory behaviour controls the renormalisation of the three-body interactions, with the renormalisation-group flow tending to a limit cycle as the cut-off is lowered. The approach used here leads to single-valued potentials with discontinuities as the bound states are cut off. The perturbations around the cycle start with a marginal term whose effect is simply to change the phase of the short-distance oscillations, or the self-adjoint extension of the singular Hamiltonian. The full power counting in terms of the energy and two-body scattering length is constructed for short-range three-body forces.

id: nucl-th/0406035
title: Method of multiple internal reflections in description of tunneling evolution through barriers
authors: Vladislav S. Olkhovsky, Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures in EPS format, LaTeX v.2e
journal: Ukr.Phys.J. 45 (2000) 1262-1269
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0406035
abstract: A method of a non-stationary description of tunneling of a particle through the one-dimensional and spherically symmetric rectangular barriers on the basis of analisis of multiple internal reflections of wave packets in relation on the barrier boundaries, named as the Method of multiple internal reflections, is presented at the first time. For the one-dimensional problem the applicability of this method is proved, its specific features are analyzed. For the spherically symmetric problem the amplitudes of the transmitted and reflected wave packets, times of tunneling and reflection in relation to the barrier are calculated using this method. The effect of Hartman-Fletcher is analyzed.

id: physics/0406053
title: Reconstruction of spatially inhomogeneous dielectric tensors via optical tomography
authors: Hanno Hammer, William R. B. Lionheart
comments: Submitted. Section IV slightly extended
journal: JOSA A, Volume 22, Issue 2, 250-255, Feb. 2005
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0406053
abstract: A method to reconstruct weakly anisotropic inhomogeneous dielectric tensors inside a transparent medium is proposed. The mathematical theory of Integral Geometry is cast into a workable framework which allows the full determination of dielectric tensor fields by scalar Radon inversions of the polarization transformation data obtained from six planar tomographic scanning cycles. Furthermore, a careful derivation of the usual equations of integrated photoelasticity in terms of heuristic length scales of the material inhomogeneity and anisotropy is provided, making the paper a self-contained account about the reconstruction of arbitrary three-dimensional, weakly anisotropic dielectric tensor fields.

id: physics/0406064
title: Femtosecond laser as a tool for experimental study of inequality of forward and reversed processes in optics
authors: V.A.Kuz'menko
comments: 3 pages LaTeX2e, 2 PS figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0406064
abstract: The classical pump-probe scheme for experiments with femtosecond laser is proposed to use for study the inequality of forward and reversed transitions in optics.

id: physics/0406074
title: New Directions in Degenerate Dipolar Molecules via Collective Association
authors: Matt Mackie, Olavi Dannenberg, Jyrki Piilo, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Juha Javanainen
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 77+ references, submitted to Euro. Phys. J. topical issue on "Ultracold Polar Molecules: Formation and Collisions"
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 31, 273 (2004)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0406074
abstract: We survey results on the creation of heteronuclear Fermi molecules by tuning a degenerate Bose-Fermi mixture into the neighborhood of an association resonance, either photoassociation or Feshbach, as well as the subsequent prospects for Cooper-like pairing between atoms and molecules. In the simplest case of only one molecular state, corresponding to either a Feshbach resonance or one-color photoassociation, the system displays Rabi oscillations and rapid adiabatic passage between a Bose-Fermi mixture of atoms and fermionic molecules. For two-color photoassociation, the system admits stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) from a Bose-Fermi mixture of atoms to stable Fermi molecules, even in the presence of particle-particle interactions. By tailoring the STIRAP sequence it is possible to deliberately convert only a fraction of the initial atoms, leaving a finite fraction of bosons behind to induce atom-molecule Cooper pairing via density fluctuations; unfortunately, this enhancement is insufficient to achieve a superfluid transition with present ultracold technology. We therefore propose the use of an association resonance that converts atoms and diatomic molecules (dimers) into triatomic molecules (trimers), which leads to a crossover from a Bose-Einstein condensate of trimers to atom-dimer Cooper pairs. Because heteronuclear dimers may possess a permanent electric dipole moment, this overall system presents an opportunity to investigate novel microscopic physics.

id: physics/0406077
title: Collective molecule formation in a degenerate Fermi gas via a Feshbach resonance
authors: Juha Javanainen, Marijan Kostrun, Yi Zheng, Andrew Carmichael, Uttam Shrestha, Patrick J. Meinel, Matt Mackie, Olavi Dannenberg, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 10+ references, accepted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 200402 (2004)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0406077
abstract: We model collisionless collective conversion of a degenerate Fermi gas into bosonic molecules via a Feshbach resonance, treating the bosonic molecules as a classical field and seeding the pairing amplitudes with random phases. A dynamical instability of the Fermi sea against association into molecules initiates the conversion. The model qualitatively reproduces several experimental observations {[Regal et al., Nature {\bf 424}, 47 (2003)]}. We predict that the initial temperature of the Fermi gas sets the limit for the efficiency of atom-molecule conversion.

