id: quant-ph/0407001
title: Comparability of multipartite entanglement
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX, no figure. Comments, criticisms and suggestions are welcome
journal: Phys. Lett. A 330 (2004) 418-423
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407001
abstract: We prove, in a multipartite setting, that it's always feasible to exactly transform a genuinely $m$-partite entangled state with sufficient many copies to any other $m$-partite state via local quantum operation and classical communication. This result affirms the comparability of multipartite pure entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0407002
title: Frequency and temporal effects in linear optical quantum computing
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 71, 032320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407002
abstract: Typically linear optical quantum computing (LOQC) models assume that all input photons are completely indistinguishable. In practice there will inevitably be non-idealities associated with the photons and the experimental setup which will introduce a degree of distinguishability between photons. We consider a non-deterministic optical controlled-NOT gate, a fundamental LOQC gate, and examine the effect of temporal and spectral distinguishability on its operation. We also consider the effect of utilizing non-ideal photon counters, which have finite bandwidth and time response.

id: quant-ph/0407003
title: Generalized Supersymmetric Perturbation Theory
authors: Bulent Gonul
comments: 13 pages article in LaTEX (uses standard article.sty). No Figures. Sent to Ann. Physics (2004)
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21, 2330 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407003
abstract: Using the basic ingredient of supersymmetry, we develop a simple alternative approach to perturbation theory in one-dimensional non-relativistic quantum mechanics. The formulae for the energy shifts and wave functions do not involve tedious calculations which appear in the available perturbation theories. The model applicable in the same form to both the ground state and excited bound states, unlike the recently introduced supersymmetric perturbation technique which, together with other approaches based on logarithmic perturbation theory, are involved within the more general framework of the present formalism.

id: quant-ph/0407004
title: Exact treatment of $\ell \neq 0$ states
authors: Bulent Gonul
comments: 7 pages article in LaTEX (uses standard article.sty). No Figures. Accepted by Chinese Physics Letters (2004, vol 21. No.9)
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21, 1685 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407004
abstract: Using the basic ingredient of supersymmetry, a general procedure for the treatment of quantum states having nonzero angular momenta is presented.

id: quant-ph/0407005
title: A Process Algebraic Approach to Concurrent and Distributed Quantum Computation: Operational Semantics
authors: Marie Lalire, Philippe Jorrand
comments: 22 pages, Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Quantum Programming Languages, July 12-13, 2004, Turku, Finland
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407005
abstract: Full formal descriptions of algorithms making use of quantum principles must take into account both quantum and classical computing components and assemble them so that they communicate and cooperate. Moreover, to model concurrent and distributed quantum computations, as well as quantum communication protocols, quantum to quantum communications which move qubits physically from one place to another must also be taken into account. Inspired by classical process algebras, which provide a framework for modeling cooperating computations, a process algebraic notation is defined, named QPAlg for Quantum Process Algebra, which provides a homogeneous style to formal descriptions of concurrent and distributed computations comprising both quantum and classical parts. On the quantum side, QPAlg provides quantum variables, operations on quantum variables (unitary operators and measurement observables), as well as new forms of communications involving the quantum world. The operational semantics makes sure that these quantum objects, operations and communications operate according to the postulates of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0407006
title: Polarization squeezing in vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers
authors: Yu.M.Golubev, T.Yu.Golubeva, M.I.Kolobov, E.Giacobino
comments: 26 pages, 6 figure, RevTeX4. Submitted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 70, 053817 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407006
abstract: We further elaborate the theory of quantum fluctuations in vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs), developed in Ref. \cite{Hermier02}. In particular, we introduce the quantum Stokes parameters to describe the quantum self- and cross-correlations between two polarization components of the electromagnetic field generated by this type of lasers. We calculate analytically the fluctuation spectra of these parameters and discuss experiments in which they can be measured. We demonstrate that in certain situations VCSELs can exhibit polarization squeezing over some range of spectral frequencies. This polarization squeezing has its origin in sub-Poissonian pumping statistics of the active laser medium.

id: quant-ph/0407007
title: Teleportation with insurance of an entangled atomic state via cavity decay
authors: Grzegorz Chimczak, Ryszard Tanas, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407007
abstract: We propose a scheme to teleport an entangled state of two $\Lambda$-type three-level atoms via photons. The teleportation protocol involves the local redundant encoding protecting the initial entangled state and allowing for repeating the detection until quantum information transfer is successful. We also show how to manipulate a state of many $\Lambda$-type atoms trapped in a cavity.

id: quant-ph/0407008
title: Classically-Controlled Quantum Computation
authors: Simon Perdrix, Philippe Jorrand
comments: 20 pages
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Science, 16:601-620, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407008
abstract: Quantum computations usually take place under the control of the classical world. We introduce a Classically-controlled Quantum Turing Machine (CQTM) which is a Turing Machine (TM) with a quantum tape for acting on quantum data, and a classical transition function for a formalized classical control. In CQTM, unitary transformations and measurements are allowed. We show that any classical TM is simulated by a CQTM without loss of efficiency. The gap between classical and quantum computations, already pointed out in the framework of measurement-based quantum computation is confirmed. To appreciate the similarity of programming classical TM and CQTM, examples are given.

id: quant-ph/0407009
title: The Continuous Variable Quantum Teleportation Controversy
authors: John A. Smolin
comments: revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407009
abstract: I argue that the objections by Rudolph and Sanders \cite{RS} to performing continuous variable quantum teleportation experiments using lasers, as well as the various rebuttals to their paper, are based on a misunderstanding of the Partition Ensemble Fallacy.

id: quant-ph/0407010
title: Transformation of quantum states using uniformly controlled rotations
authors: Mikko Mottonen, Juha J. Vartiainen, Ville Bergholm, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 5, 467 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407010
abstract: We consider a unitary transformation which maps any given state of an $n$-qubit quantum register into another one. This transformation has applications in the initialization of a quantum computer, and also in some quantum algorithms. Employing uniformly controlled rotations, we present a quantum circuit of $2^{n+2}-4n-4$ CNOT gates and $2^{n+2}-5$ one-qubit elementary rotations that effects the state transformation. The complexity of the circuit is noticeably lower than the previously published results. Moreover, we present an analytic expression for the rotation angles needed for the transformation.

id: quant-ph/0407011
title: A protocol for secure and deterministic quantum key expansion
authors: X. B. Wang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407011
abstract: In all existing protocols of private communication with encryption and decryption, the pre-shared key can be used for only one time. We give a deterministic quantum key expansion protocol where the pre-shared key can be recycled. Our protocol is exponentially secure. Our protocol costs less qubits and almost zero classical communications with authentication steps being included. Since our protocol can distribute the deterministic bits, it can also be used for direct communication.

id: quant-ph/0407012
title: Effect of magnetic fields on bound localized electron states
authors: F.Kh. Chibirova, V.R. Khalilov
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407012
abstract: An approximate analytic solution for the ground electron state are found to the Schroedinger equation for a combination of a uniform magnetic field and single attractive delta-potential. Effect of the magnetic field on this bound localized electron state is discussed. We show that above effect leads to appearing the probability current density in some region centered in the point of the delta-potential as well as to enlarging (for a number of physical models) the localization region of the electron in the plane perpendicular to the magnetic field. We are expected that these properties can be of importance for real quantum mechanical systems.

id: quant-ph/0407013
title: Breakdown of an Electric-Field Driven System: a Mapping to a Quantum Walk
authors: Takashi Oka, Norio Konno, Ryotaro Arita, Hideo Aoki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 100602 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407013
abstract: Quantum transport properties of electron systems driven by strong electric fields are studied by mapping the Landau-Zener transition dynamics to a quantum walk on a semi-infinite one-dimensional lattice with a reflecting boundary, where the sites correspond to energy levels and the boundary the ground state. Quantum interference induces a distribution localized around the ground state, and when the electric field is strengthened, a delocalization transition occurs describing breakdown of the original electron system.

id: quant-ph/0407014
title: Cavity QED and Quantum Computation in the Weak Coupling Regime
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file, 22 pages, revised version. To appear in Journal of Optics B : Quantum and Semiclassical Optics
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6(2004) 502-509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407014
abstract: In this paper we consider a model of quantum computation based on n atoms of laser-cooled and trapped linearly in a cavity and realize it as the n atoms Tavis-Cummings Hamiltonian interacting with n external (laser) fields. We solve the Schr{\" o}dinger equation of the model in the case of n=2 and construct the controlled NOT gate by making use of a resonance condition and rotating wave approximation associated to it. Our method is not heuristic but completely mathematical, and the significant feature is a consistent use of Rabi oscillations. We also present an idea of the construction of three controlled NOT gates in the case of n=3 which gives the controlled-controlled NOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0407015
title: Limits to phase resolution in matter wave interferometry
authors: M. J??skel?inen, W. Zhang, P. Meystre
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407015
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate in a time-dependent symmetric double-well potential using analytical and numerical methods. The effects of internal degrees of freedom on the visibility of interference fringes during a stage of ballistic expansion are investigated varying particle number, nonlinear interaction sign and strength as well as tunneling coupling. Expressions for the phase resolution are derived and the possible enhancement due to squeezing is discussed. In particular, the role of the superfluid - Mott insulator cross-over and its analog for attractive interactions is recognized.

id: quant-ph/0407016
title: Exponential Type Complex and non-Hermitian Potentials in PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics and Hamiltonian Hierarchy Method
authors: Gholamreza Faridfathi, Ramazan Sever, Metin Aktas
comments: 13
journal: J. Math. Chem. 38, 533(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407016
abstract: The supersymmetric solutions of PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian deformed Morse and P\"{o}schl-Teller potentials are obtained by solving the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The Hamiltonian hierarchy method is used to get the real energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions. \newline {PACS:05.20.-y; 05.30.-d; 05.70. Ce; 03.65.-w}\newline {\it Keywords}{\small : Supersymmetric quantum mechanics, Hamiltonian Hierarchy Method, Morse potential, P\"{o}schl-Teller potential}

id: quant-ph/0407017
title: Partial deterministic non-demolition Bell measurement
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta Jr., Radim Filip
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407017
abstract: We propose the scheme implementing partial deterministic non-demolition Bell measurement. When it is used in quantum teleportation the information about an unknown input state is optimally distributed among three outgoing qubits. The optimality means that the output fidelities saturate the asymmetric cloning inequality. The flow of information among the qubits is controlled by the preparation of a pair of ancillary qubits used in the Bell measurement. It is also demonstrated that the measurement is optimal two-qubit operation in the sense of the trade-off between the state disturbance and the information gain.

id: quant-ph/0407018
title: The Extent of Multi-particle Quantum Non-locality
authors: Nick S. Jones, Noah Linden, Serge Massar
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, journal version
journal: Physical Review A 71, 042329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407018
abstract: It is well known that entangled quantum states can be nonlocal: the correlations between local measurements carried out on these states cannot always be reproduced by local hidden variable models. Svetlichny, followed by others, showed that multipartite quantum states are even more nonlocal than bipartite ones in the sense that nonlocal classical models with (super-luminal) communication between some of the parties cannot reproduce the quantum correlations. Here we study in detail the kinds of nonlocality present in quantum states. More precisely we enquire what kinds of classical communication patterns cannot reproduce quantum correlations. By studying the extremal points of the space of all multiparty probability distributions, in which all parties can make one of a pair of measurements each with two possible outcomes, we find a necessary condition for classical nonlocal models to reproduce the statistics of all quantum states. This condition extends and generalises work of Svetlichny and others in which it was shown that a particular class of classical nonlocal models, the ``separable'' models, cannot reproduce the statistics of all multiparticle quantum states. Our condition shows that the nonlocality present in some entangled multiparticle quantum states is much stronger than previously thought. We also study the sufficiency of our condition.

id: quant-ph/0407019
title: The effect of coordinate and momentum uncertainties on collision of coherent electrons
authors: C.V. Usenko, V.O. Gnatovskyy, N. A. Cherkashina
comments: X International Conference on Quantum Optics Minsk, BELARUS, May 30 - June 3, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407019
abstract: We have examined the head-on collision of two electrons in approximation of coherent states. We have shown that the character of collision depends mainly on ratio of initial relative electron's momentum to momentum uncertainty of electrons. When this ratio becomes greater then 1, the Coulomb interaction does not practically influence the scattering.

id: quant-ph/0407020
title: Coupled ion - nanomechanical systems
authors: L. Tian, P.Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 266403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407020
abstract: We study ions in a nanotrap, where the electrodes are nanomechanical resonantors. The ions play the role of a quantum optical system which acts as a probe and control, and allows entanglement with or between nanomechanical resonators.

id: quant-ph/0407021
title: Error Filtration and Entanglement Purification for Quantum Communication
authors: N. Gisin, N. Linden, S. Massar, S. Popescu
comments: 23 pages (latex) and 4 postscript figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012338 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407021
abstract: The key realisation which lead to the emergence of the new field of quantum information processing is that quantum mechanics, the theory that describes microscopic particles, allows the processing of information in fundamentally new ways. But just as in classical information processing, errors occur in quantum information processing, and these have to be corrected. A fundamental breakthrough was the realisation that quantum error correction is in fact possible. However most work so far has not been concerned with technological feasibility, but rather with proving that quantum error correction is possible in principle. Here we describe a method for filtering out errors and entanglement purification which is particularly suitable for quantum communication. Our method is conceptually new, and, crucially, it is easy to implement in a wide variety of physical systems with present day technology and should therefore be of wide applicability.

id: quant-ph/0407022
title: Arbitrarily accurate composite pulses
authors: Kenneth Brown, Aram Harrow, Isaac Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052318 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407022
abstract: Systematic errors in quantum operations can be the dominating source of imperfection in achieving control over quantum systems. This problem, which has been well studied in nuclear magnetic resonance, can be addressed by replacing single operations with composite sequences of pulsed operations, which cause errors to cancel by symmetry. Remarkably, this can be achieved without knowledge of the amount of error epsilon. Independent of the initial state of the system, current techniques allow the error to be reduced to O(epsilon^3). Here, we extend the composite pulse technique to cancel errors to O(epsilon^n), for arbitrary n.

id: quant-ph/0407023
title: An extension of Chaitin's halting probability ¦¸to a measurement operator in an infinite dimensional quantum system
authors: Kohtaro Tadaki
comments: 24 pages, LaTeX2e, no figures, accepted for publication in Mathematical Logic Quarterly: The title was slightly changed and a section on an operator-valued algorithmic information theory was added
journal: Mathematical Logic Quarterly, Vol.52, 419-438 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407023
abstract: This paper proposes an extension of Chaitin's halting probability \Omega to a measurement operator in an infinite dimensional quantum system. Chaitin's \Omega is defined as the probability that the universal self-delimiting Turing machine U halts, and plays a central role in the development of algorithmic information theory. In the theory, there are two equivalent ways to define the program-size complexity H(s) of a given finite binary string s. In the standard way, H(s) is defined as the length of the shortest input string for U to output s. In the other way, the so-called universal probability m is introduced first, and then H(s) is defined as -log_2 m(s) without reference to the concept of program-size. Mathematically, the statistics of outcomes in a quantum measurement are described by a positive operator-valued measure (POVM) in the most general setting. Based on the theory of computability structures on a Banach space developed by Pour-El and Richards, we extend the universal probability to an analogue of POVM in an infinite dimensional quantum system, called a universal semi-POVM. We also give another characterization of Chaitin's \Omega numbers by universal probabilities. Then, based on this characterization, we propose to define an extension of \Omega as a sum of the POVM elements of a universal semi-POVM. The validity of this definition is discussed. In what follows, we introduce an operator version \hat{H}(s) of H(s) in a Hilbert space of infinite dimension using a universal semi-POVM, and study its properties.

id: quant-ph/0407024
title: Experimental Demonstration of Unconditional Entanglement Swapping for Continuous Variables
authors: Xiaojun Jia, Xiaolong Su, Qing Pan, Jiangrui Gao, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: new version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 250503 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407024
abstract: The unconditional entanglement swapping for continuous variables is experimentally demonstrated. Two initial entangled states are produced from two nondegenerate optical parametric amplifiers operating at deamplification. Through implementing the direct measurement of Bell-state between two optical beams from each amplifier the remaining two optical beams, which have never directly interacted with each other, are entangled. The quantum correlation degrees of 1.23dB and 1.12dB below the shot noise limit for the amplitude and phase quadratures resulting from the entanglement swapping are straightly measured.

id: quant-ph/0407025
title: Contextual objectivity and the quantum formalism
authors: Philippe Grangier
comments: 3 pages, no figure. To appear in the Proceedings of the conference "Foundations of Quantum Information" (April 2004, Camerino, Italy). In v2 some clarifications and references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407025
abstract: The new orthodoxy of quantum mechanics (QM) based on the decoherence approach requires many-worlds as an essential ingredient for logical consistency, and one may wonder what status to give to all these "other worlds". Here we advocate that it is possible to build a consistent approach to QM where no other worlds are needed, and where the quantum formalism appears as a consequence of requiring the enumerability of physical properties. Such a quantization hypothesis is closely related to indistinguishability, and is deeply inconsistent with classical physics.

id: quant-ph/0407026
title: Inducing complete population oscillations in systems with externally induced dipole moments
authors: Duje Bonacci
comments: This is just a draft of a future paper. However, it contains all the most significant results, as well as their full derivations. It does not as yet include any numerical simulations that could confirm theoretical predictions presented herein
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407026
abstract: A two level system is considered which has no static dipole moment, e.g. molecule $H_2$ in its ground electronic state. If strong enough external field is applied, it will dynamically distort such a system and supply it with time (and field) dependent dipole moment. Although it is impossible to do so in the undistorted system which has no coupling to the dipole component of the external field, having induced in it a dipole moment, the rotational and vibrational dynamics of such system can be manipulated using lasers. In this work, a system is considered in which the external perturbation dynamically induces the transition dipole moment between only two distinct levels. The aim of the work is to show how the driving pulse can be analytically designed, that will produce Rabi-like complete population oscillations between the two levels.

id: quant-ph/0407027
title: The Loss of fidelity due to quantum leakage for Josephson charge qubits
authors: Xian-Ting Liang, Yong-Jian Xiong
comments: 6 pages
journal: Modern Physics Letters B 19 (2005) 371-378
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407027
abstract: In this paper we calculate the loss of fidelity due to quantum leakage for the Josephson charge qubit (JCQ) in virtue of the Mathieu functions. It is shown that for an present typical parameters of JCQ E_{J}/E_{ch}~0.02, the loss of the fidelity per elementary operation is about 10^(-4) which satisfy the DiVincenzo's low decoherence criterion. By appropriately improving the design of the Josephson junction, namely, decreasing E_{J}/E_{ch} to 0.01, the loss of fidelity per elementary operation can decrease to 10^(-6) even smaller.

id: quant-ph/0407028
title: Transit time of a freely-falling quantum particle in a background gravitational field
authors: P C W Davies
comments: Research paper, three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407028
abstract: Using a model quantum clock, I evaluate an expression for the time of a non-relativistic quantum particle to transit a piecewise geodesic path in a background gravitational field with small spacetime curvature (gravity gradient), in the case that the apparatus is in free fall. This calculation complements and extends an earlier one (Davies 2004) in which the apparatus is fixed to the surface of the Earth. The result confirms that, for particle velocities not too low, the quantum and classical transit times coincide, in conformity with the principle of equivalence. I also calculate the quantum corrections to the transit time when the de Broglie wavelengths are long enough to probe the spacetime curvature. The results are compared with the calculation of Chaio and Speliotopoulos (2003), who propose an experiment to measure the foregoing effects.

id: quant-ph/0407029
title: Maximal violation of Mermin's inequalities
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407029
abstract: In this paper, it is proved that the maximal violation of Mermin's inequalities of $n$ qubits occurs only for GHZ's states and the states obtained from them by local unitary transformations. The key point of our argument involved here is by using the certain algebraic properties that Pauli's matrices satisfy, which is based on the determination of local spin observables of the associated Bell-Mermin operators.

id: quant-ph/0407030
title: Quantum State of Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Ruo Peng Wang
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407030
abstract: I show that the photon pairs used in experimental tests of quantum non-locality based on Bell's theorem are not in the entangled quantum state. The correct quantum state of the ``entangled'' photon pairs is suggested. Two experiments for testing this quantum state are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0407031
title: Experimental quantum key distribution over highly noisy channels
authors: L.P. Lamoureux, E. Brainis, N. Cerf, Ph. Emplit, M. Haelterman, S. Massar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 230501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407031
abstract: Error filtration is a method for encoding the quantum state of a single particle into a higher dimensional Hilbert space in such a way that it becomes less sensitive to phase noise. We experimentally demonstrate this method by distributing a secret key over an optical fiber whose noise level otherwise precludes secure quantum key distribution. By filtering out the phase noise, a bit error rate of 15.3% +/- 0.1%, which is beyond the security limit, can be reduced to 10.6% +/- 0.1%, thereby guaranteeing the cryptographic security.

id: quant-ph/0407032
title: Casimir-Polder potentials as entanglement probe
authors: Markus.A.Cirone, Giuseppe Compagno, G. Massimo Palma, Roberto Passante, Francesco S. Persico
comments: Published on Europhysics Letters 78 (2007) 30003
journal: Europhysics Letters 78 (2007) 30003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407032
abstract: We have considered the interaction of a pair of spatially separated two-level atoms with the electromagnetic field in its vacuum state and we have analyzed the amount of entanglement induced between the two atoms by the non local field fluctuations. This has allowed us to characterize the quantum nature of the non local correlations of the electromagnetic field vacuum state as well as to link the induced quantum entanglement with Casimir-Polder potentials.

id: quant-ph/0407033
title: Note on multiple additivity of minimal Renyi entropy output of the Werner-Holevo channels
authors: R. Alicki, M. Fannes
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407033
abstract: We give an elementary self-contained proof that the minimal entropy output of arbitrary products of channels $\rho \mapsto \frac{1}{d-1}(1-\rho^T)$ is additive.

id: quant-ph/0407034
title: High efficiency transfer of quantum information and multi-particle entanglement generation in translation invariant quantum chains
authors: Martin B Plenio, Fernando L Semiao
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures; multi-particle entanglement generation in added to replaced version; minor typos fixed; references added
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 73 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407034
abstract: We demonstrate that a translation invariant chain of interacting quantum systems can be used for high efficiency transfer of quantum entanglement and the generation of multi-particle entanglement over large distances and between arbitrary sites without the requirement of precise spatial or temporal control. The scheme is largely insensitive to disorder and random coupling strengths in the chain. We discuss harmonic oscillator systems both in the case of arbitrary Gaussian states and in situations when at most one excitation is in the system. The latter case which we prove to be equivalent to an xy-spin chain may be used to generate genuine multi particle entanglement. Such a 'quantum data bus' may prove useful in future solid state architectures for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0407035
title: Lower bound on the number of Toffoli gates in a classical reversible circuit through quantum information concepts
authors: Sandu Popescu, Berry Groisman, Serge Massar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 120503 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407035
abstract: The question of finding a lower bound on the number of Toffoli gates in a classical reversible circuit is addressed. A method based on quantum information concepts is proposed. The method involves solely concepts from quantum information - there is no need for an actual physical quantum computer. The method is illustrated on the example of classical Shannon data compression.

id: quant-ph/0407036
title: Exact Stochastic Reformulation of Non-Relativistic Quantum Dynamics
authors: Murat Cetinbas, Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407036
abstract: We show that any non-relativistic quantum N-body dynamics problem with pairwise interactions can be exactly reformulated in terms of N well behaved 1-body stochastic density equations. Specifically, the time evolving N-body density matrix is written as an average of tensor products of 1-body densities each of which obeys a stochastic evolution equation. Such decompositions can be constructed for any mixture of fermions and bosons. The evolution equations for the 1-body densities preserve norm, Hermiticity and positivity.

id: quant-ph/0407037
title: Distributed quantum dense coding
authors: Dagmar Bruss, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Maciej Lewenstein, Chiara Macchiavello, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, RevTeX4; v2: Reference added, results unchanged; v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 210501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407037
abstract: We introduce the notion of distributed quantum dense coding, i.e. the generalization of quantum dense coding to more than one sender and more than one receiver. We show that global operations (as compared to local operations) of the senders do not increase the information transfer capacity, in the case of a single receiver. For the case of two receivers, using local operations and classical communication, a non-trivial upper bound for the capacity is derived. We propose a general classification scheme of quantum states according to their usefulness for dense coding. In the bipartite case (for any dimensions), bound entanglement is not useful for this task.

id: quant-ph/0407038
title: Common origin of no-cloning and no-deleting principles - Conservation of information
authors: Michal Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: This paper is dedicated to Asher Peres on the occasion of his seventieth birthday
journal: Foundations of Physics 35, 2041-2049 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407038
abstract: We discuss the role of the notion of information in the description of physical reality. We consider theories for which dynamics is linear with respect to stochastic mixing. We point out that the no-cloning and no-deleting principles emerge in any such theory, if law of conservation of information is valid, and two copies contain more information than one copy. We then describe the quantum case from this point of view.

id: quant-ph/0407039
title: Numerical Methods for Stochastic Differential Equations
authors: Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407039
abstract: Stochastic differential equations (sdes) play an important role in physics but existing numerical methods for solving such equations are of low accuracy and poor stability. A general strategy for developing accurate and efficient schemes for solving stochastic equations in outlined here. High order numerical methods are developed for integration of stochastic differential equations with strong solutions. We demonstrate the accuracy of the resulting integration schemes by computing the errors in approximate solutions for sdes which have known exact solutions.

id: quant-ph/0407040
title: Uniform semiclassical approach to fidelity decay in the deep Lyapunov regime
authors: Wen-ge Wang, G. Casati, Baowen Li, T. Prosen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E v71, 037202 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407040
abstract: We use the uniform semiclassical approximation in order to derive the fidelity decay in the regime of large perturbations. Numerical computations are presented which agree with our theoretical predictions. Moreover, our theory allows to explain previous findings, such as the deviation from the Lyapunov decay rate in cases where the classical finite-time instability is non-uniform in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0407041
title: Correlation functions, Bell's inequalities and the fundamental conservation laws
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: LaTeX, 12pt, 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett. 69 (2005) 489-495
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407041
abstract: I derive the correlation function for a general theory of two-valued spin variables that satisfy the fundamental conservation law of angular momentum. The unique theory-independent correlation function is identical to the quantum mechanical correlation function. I prove that any theory of correlations of such discrete variables satisfying the fundamental conservation law of angular momentum violates the Bell's inequalities. Taken together with the Bell's theorem, this result has far reaching implications. No theory satisfying Einstein locality, reality in the EPR-Bell sense, and the validity of the conservation law can be constructed. Therefore, all local hidden variable theories are incompatible with fundamental symmetries and conservation laws. Bell's inequalities can be obeyed only by violating a conservation law. The implications for experiments on Bell's inequalities are obvious. The result provides new insight regarding entanglement, and its measures.

id: quant-ph/0407042
title: Exact and approximate many-body dynamics with stochastic one-body density matrix evolution
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review C71, (2005) 064322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407042
abstract: We show that the dynamics of interacting fermions can be exactly replaced by a quantum jump theory in the many-body density matrix space. In this theory, jumps occur between densities formed of pairs of Slater determinants, $D_{ab}=| \Phi_a > < \Phi_b |$, where each state evolves according to the Stochastic Schr\"odinger Equation (SSE) given in ref. \cite{Jul02}. A stochastic Liouville-von Neumann equation is derived as well as the associated Bogolyubov-Born-Green-Kirwood-Yvon (BBGKY) hierarchy. Due to the specific form of the many-body density along the path, the presented theory is equivalent to a stochastic theory in one-body density matrix space, in which each density matrix evolves according to its own mean field augmented by a one-body noise. Guided by the exact reformulation, a stochastic mean field dynamics valid in the weak coupling approximation is proposed. This theory leads to an approximate treatment of two-body effects similar to the extended Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock (Extended TDHF) scheme. In this stochastic mean field dynamics, statistical mixing can be directly considered and jumps occur on a coarse-grained time scale. Accordingly, numerical effort is expected to be significantly reduced for applications.

id: quant-ph/0407043
title: Path summation and quantum measurements
authors: D.Sokolovski, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 30 pages+3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407043
abstract: We propose a general theoretical approach to quantum measurements based on the path (histories) summation technique. For a given dynamical variable A, the Schr\"odinger state of a system in a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimensionality is decomposed into a set of substates, each of which corresponds to a particular detailed history of the system. The coherence between the substates may then be destroyed by meter(s) to a degree determined by the nature and the accuracy of the measurement(s) which may be of von Neumann, finite-time or continuous type. Transformations between the histories obtained for non-commuting variables and construction of simultaneous histories for non-commuting observables are discussed. Important cases of a particle described by Feynman paths in the coordinate space and a qubit in a two dimensional Hilbert space are studied in some detail.

id: quant-ph/0407044
title: The Relativistic Quantum Motions
authors: T. Djama
comments: Latex, 18 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys.Scripta 75 (2007) 71-76
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407044
abstract: Using the relativistic quantum stationary Hamilton-Jacobi equation within the framework of the equivalence postulate, and grounding oneself on both relativistic and quantum Lagrangians, we construct a Lagrangian of a relativistic quantum system in one dimension and derive a third order equation of motion representing a first integral of the relativistic quantum Newton's law. Then, we plot the relativistic quantum trajectories of a particle moving under the constant and the linear potentials. We establish the existence of nodes and link them to the de Broglie's wavelength.

id: quant-ph/0407045
title: Field quantization in inhomogeneous absorptive dielectrics
authors: L.G. Suttorp, M. Wubs
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407045
abstract: The quantization of the electromagnetic field in a three-dimensional inhomogeneous dielectric medium with losses is carried out in the framework of a damped-polariton model with an arbitrary spatial dependence of its parameters. The equations of motion for the canonical variables are solved explicitly by means of Laplace transformations for both positive and negative time. The dielectric susceptibility and the quantum noise-current density are identified in terms of the dynamical variables and parameters of the model. The operators that diagonalize the Hamiltonian are found as linear combinations of the canonical variables, with coefficients depending on the electric susceptibility and the dielectric Green function. The complete time dependence of the electromagnetic field and of the dielectric polarization is determined. Our results provide a microscopic justification of the phenomenological quantization scheme for the electromagnetic field in inhomogeneous dielectrics.

id: quant-ph/0407046
title: Faithful qubit distribution assisted by one additional qubit against collective noise
authors: T. Yamamoto, J. Shimamura, S. K. Ozdemir, M. Koashi, N. Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; published version in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407046
abstract: We propose a distribution scheme of polarization states of a single photon over collective-noise channel. By adding one extra photon with a fixed polarization, we can protect the state against collective noise via a parity-check measurement and post-selection. While the scheme succeeds only probabilistically, it is simpler and more flexible than the schemes utilizing decoherence-free subspace. An application to BB84 protocol through collective noise channel, which is robust to the Trojan horse attack, is also given.

id: quant-ph/0407047
title: Random Matrix Theory and Entanglement in Quantum Spin Chains
authors: J. P. Keating, F. Mezzadri
comments: 39 pages, 1 table, no figures. Revised version: minor corrections
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., Vol. 252 (2004), 543-579
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407047
abstract: We compute the entropy of entanglement in the ground states of a general class of quantum spin-chain Hamiltonians - those that are related to quadratic forms of Fermi operators - between the first N spins and the rest of the system in the limit of infinite total chain length. We show that the entropy can be expressed in terms of averages over the classical compact groups and establish an explicit correspondence between the symmetries of a given Hamiltonian and those characterizing the Haar measure of the associated group. These averages are either Toeplitz determinants or determinants of combinations of Toeplitz and Hankel matrices. Recent generalizations of the Fisher-Hartwig conjecture are used to compute the leading order asymptotics of the entropy as N --> infinity . This is shown to grow logarithmically with N. The constant of proportionality is determined explicitly, as is the next (constant) term in the asymptotic expansion. The logarithmic growth of the entropy was previously predicted on the basis of numerical computations and conformal-field-theoretic calculations. In these calculations the constant of proportionality was determined in terms of the central charge of the Virasoro algebra. Our results therefore lead to an explicit formula for this charge. We also show that the entropy is related to solutions of ordinary differential equations of Painlev\'e type. In some cases these solutions can be evaluated to all orders using recurrence relations.

id: quant-ph/0407048
title: Optical Lattices, Ultracold Atoms and Quantum Information Processing
authors: D. Jaksch
comments: 29 pages, review article, accepted for publication in Contemporary Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407048
abstract: We review novel methods to investigate, control and manipulate neutral atoms in optical lattices. These setups allow unprecedented quantum control over large numbers of atoms and thus are very promising for applications in quantum information processing. After introducing optical lattices we discuss the superfluid (SF) and Mott insulating (MI) states of neutral atoms trapped in such lattices and investigate the SF-MI transition as recently observed experimentally. In the second part of the paper we give an overview of proposals for quantum information processing and show different ways to entangle the trapped atoms, in particular the usage of cold collisions and Rydberg atoms. Finally, we also briefly discuss the implementation of quantum simulators, entanglement enhanced atom interferometers, and ideas for robust quantum memory in optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0407049
title: Aspects of generic entanglement
authors: Patrick Hayden, Debbie W. Leung, Andreas Winter
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. Vol. 265, No. 1, pp. 95-117, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407049
abstract: We study entanglement and other correlation properties of random states in high-dimensional bipartite systems. These correlations are quantified by parameters that are subject to the "concentration of measure" phenomenon, meaning that on a large-probability set these parameters are close to their expectation. For the entropy of entanglement, this has the counterintuitive consequence that there exist large subspaces in which all pure states are close to maximally entangled. This, in turn, implies the existence of mixed states with entanglement of formation near that of a maximally entangled state, but with negligible quantum mutual information and, therefore, negligible distillable entanglement, secret key, and common randomness. It also implies a very strong locking effect for the entanglement of formation: its value can jump from maximal to near zero by tracing over a number of qubits negligible compared to the size of total system. Furthermore, such properties are generic. Similar phenomena are observed for random multiparty states, leading us to speculate on the possibility that the theory of entanglement is much simplified when restricted to asymptotically generic states. Further consequences of our results include a complete derandomization of the protocol for universal superdense coding of quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0407050
title: Comment on "Quantum key distribution with 1.25 Gbps clock synchronization" by J.C. Bienfang et al., quant-ph/0405097
authors: Richard J. Hughes, Jane E. Nordholt
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407050
abstract: We analyze the significance for quantum key distribution (QKD) of free-space quantum communications results reported in a recent paper (J. C. Bienfang et al., quant-ph/0405097, hereafter referred to as "Bienfang et al."), who contrast the quantum communications rate of their partial QKD implementation (which does not produce cryptographically useful shared, secret keys) over a short transmission distance, with the secret bit rates of previous full QKD implementations over much longer distances. We show that when a cryptographically relevant comparison with previous results is made, the system described by Bienfang et al. would offer no advantages for QKD, contrary to assertions in their paper and in spite of its high clock rate. Further, we show that the claim made by Bienfang et al. that "high transmission rates serve ... to extend the distance over which a QKD system can operate" is incorrect. Our analysis illustrates an important aspect of QKD that is too often overlooked in experiments: the sifted bit rate can be a highly misleading indicator of the performance of a QKD system.

id: quant-ph/0407051
title: Symplectic quantization, inequivalent quantum theories, and Heisenberg's principle of uncertainty
authors: Merced Montesinos, G.F. Torres del Castillo
comments: 8 pages, LaTex file, no figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 032104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407051
abstract: We analyze the quantum dynamics of the non-relativistic two-dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillator in Heisenberg's picture. Such a system is taken as toy model to analyze some of the various quantum theories that can be built from the application of Dirac's quantization rule to the various symplectic structures recently reported for this classical system. It is pointed out that that these quantum theories are inequivalent in the sense that the mean values for the operators (observables) associated with the same physical classical observable do not agree with each other. The inequivalence does not arise from ambiguities in the ordering of operators but from the fact of having several symplectic structures defined with respect to the same set of coordinates. It is also shown that the uncertainty relations between the fundamental observables depend on the particular quantum theory chosen. It is important to emphasize that these (somehow paradoxical) results emerge from the combination of two paradigms: Dirac's quantization rule and the usual Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0407052
title: Non-positivity of Groenewold operators
authors: A. J. Bracken, J. G. Wood
comments: 9 pages, 1 figures, submitted to Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett., 68 (1) pp. 1-7 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407052
abstract: A central feature in the Hilbert space formulation of classical mechanics is the quantisation of classical Liouville densities, leading to what may be termed term Groenewold operators. We investigate the spectra of the Groenewold operators that correspond to Gaussian and to certain uniform Liouville densities. We show that when the classical coordinate-momentum uncertainty product falls below Heisenberg's limit, the Groenewold operators in the Gaussian case develop negative eigenvalues and eigenvalues larger than 1. However, in the uniform case, negative eigenvalues are shown to persist for arbitrarily large values of the classical uncertainty product.

id: quant-ph/0407053
title: Parallel Treatment of Estimation of SU(2) and Phase Estimation
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: I changed the title
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 354, No. 3, 183-189 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407053
abstract: We discuss the accuracy of the estimation of the $n$ identical unknown actions of $\SU(2)$ by using entanglement. This problem has a similar structure with the phase estimation problem, which was discussed by Bu\v{z}ek, Derka, and Massar\cite{BDM}. The estimation error asymptotically decreases to zero with an order of $\frac{1}{n^2}$ at least.

id: quant-ph/0407054
title: Implementation of group-covariant POVMs by orthogonal measurements
authors: Thomas Decker, Dominik Janzing, Martin Roetteler
comments: latex, 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 46:012104, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407054
abstract: We consider group-covariant positive operator valued measures (POVMs) on a finite dimensional quantum system. Following Neumark's theorem a POVM can be implemented by an orthogonal measurement on a larger system. Accordingly, our goal is to find an implementation of a given group-covariant POVM by a quantum circuit using its symmetry. Based on representation theory of the symmetry group we develop a general approach for the implementation of group-covariant POVMs which consist of rank-one operators. The construction relies on a method to decompose matrices that intertwine two representations of a finite group. We give several examples for which the resulting quantum circuits are efficient. In particular, we obtain efficient quantum circuits for a class of POVMs generated by Weyl-Heisenberg groups. These circuits allow to implement an approximative simultaneous measurement of the position and crystal momentum of a particle moving on a cyclic chain.

id: quant-ph/0407055
title: Influence of the signal light on the transient optical properties of a four-level EIT medium
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Zhi-Chao Ruan, Sailing He
comments: 8 pages+3 figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407055
abstract: General formulae for the transient evolution of the susceptibility (absorption) induced by the quantum interference effect in a four-level N-type EIT medium is presented. The influence of the signal light on the transient susceptibility for the probe beam is studied for two typical cases when the strength of the coupling beam is much greater or less than that of the signal field. An interesting level reciprocity relationship between these two cases is found.

id: quant-ph/0407056
title: Quantum Phase Transitions and Bipartite Entanglement
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Marcelo S. Sarandy, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, incl. 2 figures. v3: The version published in PRL, including a few extra comments and clarifications for which there was no space in the PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 250404 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407056
abstract: We develop a general theory of the relation between quantum phase transitions (QPTs) characterized by nonanalyticities in the energy and bipartite entanglement. We derive a functional relation between the matrix elements of two-particle reduced density matrices and the eigenvalues of general two-body Hamiltonians of $d$-level systems. The ground state energy eigenvalue and its derivatives, whose non-analyticity characterizes a QPT, are directly tied to bipartite entanglement measures. We show that first-order QPTs are signalled by density matrix elements themselves and second-order QPTs by the first derivative of density matrix elements. Our general conclusions are illustrated via several quantum spin models.

id: quant-ph/0407057
title: Basic Logic and Quantum Computing: Logical Judgements by an Insider Observer
authors: Giulia Battilotti
comments: 5 pages LaTeX. Submitted to a special issue of IJQI, proceedings of the FQI04, Camerino, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407057
abstract: We consider the logical assertions of a hypothetical observer who is inside a quantum computer and performs a reversible quantum measurement, obtaining a symmetric couple of new axioms, valid only inside the quantum computer. The result is that, in this logical framework, symmetry and paraconsistency hold.

id: quant-ph/0407058
title: Quantum state transfer in imperfect artificial spin networks
authors: M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma, M. S. Kim, G. Falci
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042311 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407058
abstract: High-fidelity quantum computation and quantum state transfer are possible in short spin chains. We exploit a system based on a dispersive qubit-boson interaction to mimic XY coupling. In this model, the usually assumed nearest-neighbors coupling is no more valid: all the qubits are mutually coupled. We analyze the performances of our model for quantum state transfer showing how pre-engineered coupling rates allow for nearly optimal state transfer. We address a setup of superconducting qubits coupled to a microstrip cavity in which our analysis may be applied.

id: quant-ph/0407059
title: Antilocalization in Coherent Backscattering of Light in a Multi-Resonance Atomic System
authors: D. V. Kupriyanov, I. M. Sokolov, M. D. Havey
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Optics Communications (2004)
journal: Optics Comm. 243, 165 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407059
abstract: Theoretical prediction of antilocalization of light in ultracold atomic gas samples, in the weak localization regime, is reported. Calculations and Monte-Carlo simulations show that, for selected spectral ranges in the vicinity of atomic 85Rb hyperfine transitions, quantum coherence in optical transitions through nondegenerate hyperfine levels in multiple light scattering generates destructive interference in otherwise reciprocal scattering paths. This effect leads to enhancement factors less than unity in a coherent backscattering geometry, and suggests the possibility of enhanced diffusion of light in ultracold atomic vapors.

id: quant-ph/0407060
title: Theory of control of spin/photon interface for quantum networks
authors: Wang Yao, Ren-Bao Liu, L. J. Sham
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 030504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407060
abstract: A cavity coupling a charged nanodot and a fiber can act as a quantum interface, through which a stationary spin qubit and a flying photon qubit can be inter-converted via cavity-assisted Raman process. This Raman process can be controlled to generate or annihilate an arbitrarily shaped single-photon wavepacket by pulse-shaping the controlling laser field. This quantum interface forms the basis for many essential functions of a quantum network, including sending, receiving, transferring, swapping, and entangling qubits at distributed quantum nodes as well as a deterministic source and an efficient detector of a single photon wavepacket with arbitrarily specified shape and average photon number. Numerical study of noise effects on the operations shows high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0407061
title: Optimal superdense coding of entangled states
authors: Anura Abeyesinghe, Patrick Hayden, Graeme Smith, Andreas Winter
comments: Final Version. Several technical issues clarified
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 52, no. 8, pp. 3635-3641, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407061
abstract: We present a one-shot method for preparing pure entangled states between a sender and a receiver at a minimal cost of entanglement and quantum communication. In the case of preparing unentangled states, an earlier paper showed that a 2n-qubit quantum state could be communicated to a receiver by physically transmitting only n+o(n) qubits in addition to consuming n ebits of entanglement and some shared randomness. When the states to be prepared are entangled, we find that there is a reduction in the number of qubits that need to be transmitted, interpolating between no communication at all for maximally entangled states and the earlier two-for-one result of the unentangled case, all without the use of any shared randomness. We also present two applications of our result: a direct proof of the achievability of the optimal superdense coding protocol for entangled states produced by a memoryless source, and a demonstration that the quantum identification capacity of an ebit is two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0407062
title: Quantum stream cipher based on optical communications
authors: Osamu Hirota, Kentaro Kato, Masaki Sohma, Tsuyoshi S. Usuda, Katsuyoshi Harasawa
comments: SPIR. Proceeding-5551,2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407062
abstract: In 2000, an attractive new quantum cryptography was discovered by H.P.Yuen based on quantum communication theory. It is applicable to direct encryption, for example quantum stream cipher based on Yuen protocol(Y-00), with high speeds and for long distance by sophisticated optical devices which can work under the average photon number per signal light pulse:$<n> = 1000 \sim 10000$. In addition, it may provide information-theoretic security against known/chosen plaintext attack, which has no classical analogue. That is, one can provide secure communication, even the system has $H(K) << H(X)$. In this paper, first, we give a brief review on the general logic of Yuen's theory. Then, we show concrete security analysis of quantum stream cipher to quantum individual measurement attacks. Especially by showing the analysis of Lo-Ko known plaintext attack, the feature of Y-00 is clarified. In addition, we give a simple experimental result on the advantage distillation by scheme consisting of intensity modulation/direct detection optical communication.

id: quant-ph/0407063
title: Optical Quantum Computation with Perpetually Coupled Spins
authors: Simon C. Benjamin, Brendon W. Lovett, John H. Reina
comments: 5 pages including 3 figures. Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A v.70 060305(R) [2004]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407063
abstract: The possibility of using strongly and continuously interacting spins for quantum computation has recently been discussed. Here we present a simple optical scheme that achieves this goal while avoiding the drawbacks of earlier proposals. We employ a third state, accessed by a classical laser field, to create an effective barrier to information transfer. The mechanism proves to be highly efficient both for continuous and pulsed laser modes; moreover it is very robust, tolerating high decay rates for the excited states. The approach is applicable to a broad range of systems, in particular dense structures such as solid state self-assembled (e.g., molecular) devices. Importantly, there are existing structures upon which `first step' experiments could be immediately performed.

id: quant-ph/0407064
title: Basics of Quantum Computation (Part 1)
authors: E. E. Rosinger
comments: First part of lecture notes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407064
abstract: The aim of this textbook is to bridge in regard of quantum computation what proves to be a considerable threshold even to the usual science trained readership between the level of science popularization, and on the other hand, the presently available more encyclopedic textbooks. In this respect the present textbook is aimed to be a short, simple, rigorous and direct introduction, addressing itself only to quantum computation proper.

id: quant-ph/0407065
title: Geometrical Optics in Coincidence Imaging System
authors: De-Zhong Cao, Jun Xiong, Kaige Wang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407065
abstract: We discuss the geometrical optics of coincidence imaging for two kinds of spatial correlations which are related to a classical thermal light source and a two-photon quantum entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0407066
title: On the Key-Uncertainty of Quantum Ciphers and the Computational Security of One-way Quantum Transmission
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Thomas Pedersen, Louis Salvail
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. This is a revised version of an earlier version that appeared in the proc. of Eucrocrypt'04:LNCS3027, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407066
abstract: We consider the scenario where Alice wants to send a secret (classical) $n$-bit message to Bob using a classical key, and where only one-way transmission from Alice to Bob is possible. In this case, quantum communication cannot help to obtain perfect secrecy with key length smaller then $n$. We study the question of whether there might still be fundamental differences between the case where quantum as opposed to classical communication is used. In this direction, we show that there exist ciphers with perfect security producing quantum ciphertext where, even if an adversary knows the plaintext and applies an optimal measurement on the ciphertext, his Shannon uncertainty about the key used is almost maximal. This is in contrast to the classical case where the adversary always learns $n$ bits of information on the key in a known plaintext attack. We also show that there is a limit to how different the classical and quantum cases can be: the most probable key, given matching plain- and ciphertexts, has the same probability in both the quantum and the classical cases. We suggest an application of our results in the case where only a short secret key is available and the message is much longer.

id: quant-ph/0407067
title: Security of Y-00 and similar quantum cryptographic protocols
authors: Horace P. Yuen, Prem Kumar, Eric Corndorf, Ranjith Nair
comments: V.2 is a comprehensive response to Nishioka et. al., and also contains a brief response to Lo and Ko (quant-ph/0309127). We have provided a concise, and hopefully understandable, description of the security characteristics of AlphaEta for both direct encryption as well as key generation. Submitted to Physics Letters A, Oct. 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407067
abstract: It is claimed in Phys. Lett. A by T. Nishioka et. al. 327 (2004) 28-32, that the security of Y-00 is equivalent to that of a classical stream cipher. In this paper it is shown that the claim is false in either the use of Y-00 for direct encryption or key generation, in all the parameter ranges it is supposed to operate including those of the experiments reported thus far. The security of Y-00 type protocols is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0407068
title: Coherent states with elliptical polarization
authors: E. Colavita, S. Hacyan
comments: 10 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407068
abstract: Coherent states of the two dimensional harmonic oscillator are constructed as superpositions of energy and angular momentum eigenstates. It is shown that these states are Gaussian wave-packets moving along a classical trajectory, with a well defined elliptical polarization. They are coherent correlated states with respect to the usual cartesian position and momentum operators. A set of creation and annihilation operators is defined in polar coordinates, and it is shown that these same states are precisely coherent states with respect to such operators.

id: quant-ph/0407069
title: Holonomic Quantum Computation Using Rf-SQUIDs Coupled Through A Microwave Cavity
authors: P. Zhang, Z. D. Wang, J. D. Sun, C. P. Sun
comments: 4pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407069
abstract: We propose a new scheme to realize holonomic quantum computation with rf-SQUID qubits in a microwave cavity. In this scheme associated with the non-Abelian holonomies, the single-qubit gates and a two-qubit control-Phase gate as well as a control-NOT gate can be easily constructed by tuning adiabatically the Rabi frequencies of classical microwave pulses coupled to the SQUIDs. The fidelity of these gates is estimated to be possibly higher than 90 % with the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0407070
title: Comment on Complex Extension of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407070
abstract: In their Erratum [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 119902 (2004), quant-ph/0208076], written in reaction to [quant-ph/0310164], Bender, Brody and Jones propose a revised definition for a physical observable in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. We show that although this definition avoids the dynamical inconsistency revealed in quant-ph/0310164, it is still not a physically viable definition. In particular, we point out that a general proof that this definition is consistent with the requirements of the quantum measurement theory is lacking, give such a proof for a class of PT-symmetric systems by establishing the fact that this definition implies that the observables are pseudo-Hermitian operators, and show that for all the cases that this definition is consistent with the requirements of measurement theory it reduces to a special case of a more general definition given in [quant-ph/0310164]. The latter is the unique physically viable definition of observables in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0407071
title: The non-linear field theory III: Geometrical illustration of the electromagnetic representation of Dirac's electron theory
authors: Alexander G. Kyriakos
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407071
abstract: The present paper is the continuity of the previous papers "Non-linear field theory" I and II. Here on the basis of the electromagnetic representation of Dirac's electron theory we consider the geometrical distribution of the electromagnetic fields of the electron-positron. This gives the posibility to obtain the explanation and solution of many fundamental problems of the QED.

id: quant-ph/0407072
title: A question in the axiomatic approach to Quantum Mechanics
authors: E. E. Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407072
abstract: The classical Hilbert space formulation of the axioms of Quantum Mechanics appears to leave open the question whether the Hermitian operators which are associated with the observables of a finite non-relativistic quantum system are uniquely determined.

id: quant-ph/0407073
title: Thermal entanglement of spins in a nonuniform magnetic field
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, latex, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Rev. A, 71, 022308 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407073
abstract: We study the effect of inhomogeneities in the magnetic field on the thermal entanglement of a two spin system. We show that in the ferromagnetic case a very small inhomogeneity is capable to produce large values of thermal entanglement. This shows that the absence of entanglement in the ferromagnetic Heisenberg system is highly unstable against inhomogeneoity of magnetic fields which is inevitably present in any solid state realization of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0407074
title: What does quantum chaos mean?
authors: D. Huard, H. Kroger, G.G. Melkonyan, K.J.M. Moriarty, L.P. Nadeau
comments: 7 pages
journal: Proc. of Dynamic Systems & Applications, M. Sambandham, ed., Vol. IV, pp. 640-646, Dynamic Publishers, Atlanta (2003).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407074
abstract: We discuss how the concept of the quantum action can be used to characterize quantum chaos. As an example we study quantum mechanics of the inverse square potential in order to test some questions related to quantum action. Quantum chaos is discussed for the 2-D hamiltonian system of harmonic oscillators with anharmonic coupling.

id: quant-ph/0407075
title: Entanglement in spin chains and lattices with long-range Ising-type interactions
authors: W. D{¨¹}r, L. Hartmann, M. Hein, M. Lewenstein, H. J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; V2: presentation improved, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 097203 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407075
abstract: We consider N initially disentangled spins, embedded in a ring or d-dimensional lattice of arbitrary geometry, which interact via some long--range Ising--type interaction. We investigate relations between entanglement properties of the resulting states and the distance dependence of the interaction in the limit N to infinity. We provide a sufficient condition when bipartite entanglement between blocks of L neighboring spins and the remaining system saturates, and determine S_L analytically for special configurations. We find an unbounded increase of S_L as well as diverging correlation and entanglement length under certain circumstances. For arbitrarily large N, we can efficiently calculate all quantities associated with reduced density operators of up to ten particles.

id: quant-ph/0407076
title: Reply to "comment on Geometric phases for mixed states during cyclic evolutions"
authors: Li-Bin Fu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: Reply to the comment of Erik Sjoqvist
journal: J. Phys. A 37, 7395 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407076
abstract: We show that the geometric phase for mixed state during a cyclic evolution suggested in 2004 J. Phys. A 37 3699 is U(1) invariant and can be observed by nowaday techniques.

id: quant-ph/0407077
title: Wave Functions and Bohmian Trajectories in Interference Phenomena
authors: E. Guay, L. Marchildon
comments: LaTeX, 23 pages including 10 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407077
abstract: In the last few years the hydrodynamic formulation of quantum mechanics, equivalent to the Bohmian equations of motion, has been used to obtain numerical solutions of the Schrodinger equation. Problems, however, have been experienced near wave function nodes (or low probability regions). Here we attempt to compute wave functions and Bohmian trajectories for the interference of one particle or of two identical particles. It turns out that the large number of nodes (i.e. interference minima) makes the hydrodynamic equations impractical, whereas a more straightforward solution of the Schrodinger equation gives very good results.

id: quant-ph/0407078
title: On PSI-complete and PSIR-complete measurements
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, no figures v2: Added comment about MUBs; corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052107 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407078
abstract: I construct a POVM which has 2d rank-one elements and which is informationally complete for generic pure states in d dimensions, thus confirming a conjecture made by Flammia, Silberfarb, and Caves (quant-ph/0404137). I show that if a rank-one POVM is required to be informationally complete for all pure states in d dimensions, it must have at least 3d-2 elements. I also show that, in a POVM which is informationally complete for all pure states in d dimensions, for any vector there must be at least 2d-1 POVM elements which do not annihilate that vector.

id: quant-ph/0407079
title: Implementation of analytic functions with quantum gates
authors: G. Florio, D. Picca
comments: 35 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407079
abstract: In order to realize a Quantum CPU some schemes for executing fundamental mathematical tasks are needed. In this paper we present some quantum circuits which, using elementary arithmetic operations, allow an approximated calculation of continuous functions. Furthermore, we give an explicit example of our procedure applied to the exponential function.

id: quant-ph/0407080
title: Quantum Entanglement and the Self-Trapping Transition in Polaronic Systems
authors: Yang Zhao, Paolo Zanardi, Guanhua Chen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407080
abstract: We revisit from a quantum-information perspective a classic problem of polaron theory in one dimension. In the context of the Holstein model we show that a simple analysis of quantum entanglement between excitonic and phononic degrees of freedom allows one to effectively characterize both the small and large polaron regimes as well as the crossover in between. The small (large) polaron regime corresponds to a high (low) degree of bipartite quantum entanglement between the exciton and the phonon cloud that clothes the exciton. Moreover, the self-trapping transition is clearly displayed by a sharp drop of exciton-phonon entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0407081
title: New Construction of Mutually Unbiased Bases in Square Dimensions
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Thomas Beth
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407081
abstract: We show that k=w+2 mutually unbiased bases can be constructed in any square dimension d=s^2 provided that there are w mutually orthogonal Latin squares of order s. The construction combines the design-theoretic objects (k,s)-nets (which can be constructed from w mutually orthogonal Latin squares of order s and vice versa) and generalized Hadamard matrices of size s. Using known lower bounds on the asymptotic growth of the number of mutually orthogonal Latin squares (based on number theoretic sieving techniques), we obtain that the number of mutually unbiased bases in dimensions d=s^2 is greater than s^1/14.8 for all s but finitely many exceptions. Furthermore, our construction gives more mutually orthogonal bases in many non-prime-power dimensions than the construction that reduces the problem to prime power dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0407082
title: Efficient Quantum Circuits for Schur and Clebsch-Gordan Transforms
authors: Dave Bacon, Isaac Chuang, Aram Harrow
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 97, 170502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407082
abstract: The Schur basis on n d-dimensional quantum systems is a generalization of the total angular momentum basis that is useful for exploiting symmetry under permutations or collective unitary rotations. We present efficient (size poly(n,d,log(1/\epsilon)) for accuracy \epsilon) quantum circuits for the Schur transform, which is the change of basis between the computational and the Schur bases. These circuits are based on efficient circuits for the Clebsch-Gordan transformation. We also present an efficient circuit for a limited version of the Schur transform in which one needs only to project onto different Schur subspaces. This second circuit is based on a generalization of phase estimation to any nonabelian finite group for which there exists a fast quantum Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0407083
title: Dynamics of initially entangled open quantum systems
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 052110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407083
abstract: Linear maps of matrices describing evolution of density matrices for a quantum system initially entangled with another are identified and found to be not always completely positive. They can even map a positive matrix to a matrix that is not positive, unless we restrict the domain on which the map acts. Nevertheless, their form is similar to that of completely positive maps. Only some minus signs are inserted in the operator-sum representation. Each map is the difference of two completely positive maps. The maps are first obtained as maps of mean values and then as maps of basis matrices. These forms also prove to be useful. An example for two entangled qubits is worked out in detail. Relation to earlier work is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0407084
title: Towards Quantum Superpositions of a Mirror: an Exact Open Systems Analysis - Calculational Details
authors: S.L. Adler, A. Bassi, E. Ippoliti
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX. Minor changes made
journal: J.Phys.A38:2715,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407084
abstract: We give details of calculations analyzing the proposed mirror superposition experiment of Marshall, Simon, Penrose, and Bouwmeester within different stochastic models for state vector collapse. We give two methods for exactly calculating the fringe visibility in these models, one proceeding directly from the equation of motion for the expectation of the density matrix, and the other proceeding from solving a linear stochastic unravelling of this equation. We also give details of the calculation that identifies the stochasticity parameter implied by the small displacement Taylor expansion of the CSL model density matrix equation. The implications of the two results are briefly discussed. Two pedagogical appendices review mathematical apparatus needed for the calculations.

id: quant-ph/0407085
title: Bell's Theorem - Why Inequalities, Correlations?
authors: Noam Erez
comments: References and comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407085
abstract: It is shown that Bell's counterfactuals admit joint quasiprobability distributions (i.e. joint distributions exist, but may not be non-negative). A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence among them of a true probability distribution (i.e. no-nnegative) is Bell's inequalities. This, in turn, is a necessary condition for the existence of local hidden variables. The treatment is amenable to generalization to examples of 'nonlocality without inequalities'.

id: quant-ph/0407086
title: Simulation of Slow Light with Electronics Circuits
authors: T. Nakanishi, K Sugiyama, M. Kitano
comments: The following article has been submitted to the American Journal of Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL (7 pages, 7 figures)
journal: American Journal of Physics, Volume 73, Issue 4, pp. 323-329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407086
abstract: We present an electronic circuit which simulates wave propagation in dispersive media. The circuit is an array of phase shifter composed of operational amplifiers and can be described with a discretized version of one-dimensional wave equation for envelopes. The group velocity can be changed both spatially and temporarily. It is used to emulate slow light or stopped light, which has been realized in a medium with electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The group-velocity control of optical pulses is expected to be a useful tool in the field of quantum information and communication.

id: quant-ph/0407087
title: Quantum Mechanical Hysteresis and the Electron Transfer Problem
authors: P. G. Etchegoin
comments: Accepted Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407087
abstract: We study a simple quantum mechanical symmetric donor-acceptor model for electron transfer (ET) with coupling to internal deformations. The model contains several basic properties found in biological ET in enzymes and photosynthetic centers; it produces tunnelling with hysteresis thus providing a simple explanation for the slowness of the reversed rate and the near 100% efficiency of ET in many biological systems. The model also provides a conceptual framework for the development of molecular electronics memory elements based on electrostatic architectures.

id: quant-ph/0407088
title: Stark Effect in Lax-Phillips Theory
authors: Tamar Ben Ari, L.P. Horwitz
comments: Plain TeX, 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407088
abstract: The scattering theory of Lax and Phillips, originally developed to describe resonances associated with classical wave equations, has been recently extended to apply as well to the case of the Schroedinger equation in the case that the wave operators for the corresponding Lax-Phillips theory exist. It is known that the bound state levels of an atom become resonances (spectral enhancements) in the continuum in the presence of an electric field (in all space) in the quantum mechanical Hilbert space. Such resonances appear as states in the extended Lax-Phillips Hilbert space. We show that for a simple version of the Stark effect, these states can be explicitly computed, and exhibit the (necessarily) semigroup property of decay in time. The widths and location of the resonances are those given by the poles of the resolvent of the standard quantum mechanical form.

id: quant-ph/0407089
title: A relativistically covariant version of Bohm's quantum field theory for the scalar field
authors: George Horton, Chris Dewdney
comments: 1 figure. Submitted to J Phys A. 20/05/04 replacement has additional references and a few minor changes made for clarity. Accepted by J Phys A
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 11935-11944
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407089
abstract: We give a relativistically covariant, wave-functional formulation of Bohm's quantum field theory for the scalar field based on a general foliation of space-time by space-like hypersurfaces. The wave functional, which guides the evolution of the field, is space-time-foliation independent but the field itself is not. Hence, in order to have a theory in which the field may be considered a beable, some extra rule must be given to determine the foliation. We suggest one such rule based on the eigen vectors of the energy-momentum tensor of the field itself.

id: quant-ph/0407090
title: An anatomy of a quantum adiabatic algorithm that transcends the Turing computability
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 7 pages, no figure. Submitted to the Proceedings of the conference "Foundations of Quantum Information" (April 2004, Camerino, Italy)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407090
abstract: We give an update on a quantum adiabatic algorithm for the Turing noncomputable Hilbert's tenth problem, and briefly go over some relevant issues and misleading objections to the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0407091
title: Implementing Grover's Quantum Search on a Para-Hydrogen based Pure State NMR Quantum Computer
authors: M. S. Anwar, D. Blazina, H. Carteret, S. B. Duckett, J. A. Jones
comments: 4 pages RevTex including 3 figures (figure 3 is low quality to save space). Submitted to Chem Phys Lett
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 400, 94-97 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407091
abstract: We demonstrate the implementation of Grover's quantum search algorithm on a liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer using essentially pure states. This was achieved using a two qubit device where the initial state is an essentially pure ($\epsilon=1.06\pm0.04$) singlet nuclear spin state of a pair of 1H nuclei arising from a chemical reaction involving para-hydrogen. We have implemented Grover's search to find one of four inputs which satisfies a function.

id: quant-ph/0407092
title: Some basics of $su(1,1)$
authors: Marcel Novaes
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407092
abstract: A basic introduction to the $su(1,1)$ algebra is presented, in which we discuss the relation with canonical transformations, the realization in terms of quantized radiation field modes and coherent states. Instead of going into details of these topics, we rather emphasize the existing connections between them. We discuss two parametrizations of the coherent states manifold $SU(1,1)/U(1)$: as the Poincar{\'e} disk in the complex plane and as the pseudosphere (a sphere in a Minkowskian space), and show that it is a natural phase space for quantum systems with SU(1,1) symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0407093
title: Nonadiabatic geometric phase induced by a counterpart of the Stark shift
authors: E. I. Duzzioni, C. J. Villas-Boas, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 72, 21 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407093
abstract: We analyse the geometric phase due to the Stark shift in a system composed of a bosonic field, driven by time-dependent linear amplification, interacting dispersively with a two-level (fermionic) system. We show that a geometric phase factor in the joint state of the system, which depends on the fermionic state (resulting form the Stark shift), is introduced by the amplification process. A clear geometrical interpretation of this phenomenon is provided. We also show how to measure this effect in an interferometric experiment and to generate geometric "Schrodinger cat"-like states. Finally, considering the currently available technology, we discuss a feasible scheme to control and measure such geometric phases in the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0407094
title: Collective states in highly symmetric atomic configurations, and single-photon traps
authors: Hanno Hammer
comments: Invited contribution to "Xth International Conference on Quantum Optics ICQO 2004" in Minsk, Belarus. To be published in Optics and Spectroscopy
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy -- August 2005 -- Volume 99, Issue 2, pp. 320--337
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407094
abstract: Abbreviated Abstract: We study correlated states in a circular and linear-chain configuration of identical two-level atoms containing the energy of a single quasi-resonant photon in the form of a collective excitation, where the collective behaviour is mediated by exchange of transverse photons between the atoms. For a circular configuration of atoms the effective Hamiltonian on the radiationless subspace of the system can be diagonalized analytically. In this case, the radiationless energy eigenstates carry a $\mathbb{Z}_N$ quantum number $p=0,1, ..., N$ which is analogous to the angular momentum quantum number $l= 0, 1, ...$, carried by particles propagating in a central potential, such as a hydrogen-like system. Just as the hydrogen s-states are the only electronic wave functions which can occupy the central region of the Coulomb potential, the quasi-particle corresponding to a collective excitation of the circular atomic sample can occupy the central atom only for vanishing $\mathbb{Z}_N$ quantum number $p$. For large numbers of atoms in a maximally subradiant state, a critical interatomic distance of $\lambda/2$ emerges both in the linear-chain and the circular configuration of atoms. The spontaneous decay rate of the linear configuration exhibits a jump-like "critical" behaviour for next-neighbour distances close to a half-wavelength. Furthermore, both the linear-chain and the circular configuration exhibit exponential photon trapping once the next-neighbour distance becomes less than a half-wavelength, with the suppression of spontaneous decay being particularly pronounced in the circular system. In this way, circular configurations containing sufficiently many atoms may be natural candidates for {\it single-photon traps}.

id: quant-ph/0407095
title: Optimized quantum implementation of elliptic curve arithmetic over binary fields
authors: Phillip Kaye, Christof Zalka
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407095
abstract: Shor's quantum algorithm for discrete logarithms applied to elliptic curve groups forms the basis of a "quantum attack" of elliptic curve cryptosystems. To implement this algorithm on a quantum computer requires the efficient implementation of the elliptic curve group operation. Such an implementation requires we be able to compute inverses in the underlying field. In [PZ03], Proos and Zalka show how to implement the extended Euclidean algorithm to compute inverses in the prime field GF(p). They employ a number of optimizations to achieve a running time of O(n^2), and a space-requirement of O(n) qubits (there are some trade-offs that they make, sacrificing a few extra qubits to reduce running-time). In practice, elliptic curve cryptosystems often use curves over the binary field GF(2^m). In this paper, we show how to implement the extended Euclidean algorithm for polynomials to compute inverses in GF(2^m). Working under the assumption that qubits will be an `expensive' resource in realistic implementations, we optimize specifically to reduce the qubit space requirement, while keeping the running-time polynomial. Our implementation here differs from that in [PZ03] for GF(p), and we are able to take advantage of some properties of the binary field GF(2^m). We also optimize the overall qubit space requirement for computing the group operation for elliptic curves over GF(2^m) by decomposing the group operation to make it "piecewise reversible" (similar to what is done in [PZ03] for curves over GF(p)).

id: quant-ph/0407096
title: The Emergence of Classical Dynamics in a Quantum World
authors: Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures. This is an introductory pedagogical article which first appeared in Los Alamos Science in 2002
journal: Los Alamos Science 27, 110 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407096
abstract: Ever since the advent of quantum mechanics, it has been clear that the atoms composing matter do not obey Newton's laws. Instead, their behavior is described by the Schroedinger equation. Surprisingly though, until recently, no clear explanation was given for why everyday objects, which are merely collections of atoms, are observed to obey Newton's laws. It would seem that, if quantum mechanics explains all the properties of atoms accurately, they, too, should obey quantum mechanics. This reasoning led some scientists to believe in a distinct macroscopic, or ``big and complicated,'' world in which quantum mechanics fails and classical mechanics takes over, although there has never been experimental evidence for such a failure. Even those who insisted that Newtonian mechanics would somehow emerge from the underlying quantum mechanics as the system became increasingly macroscopic were hindered by the lack of adequate experimental and theoretical tools. In the last decade, however, this quantum-to-classical transition has become accessible to experimental study and quantitative description, and the resulting insights are the subject of this article.

id: quant-ph/0407097
title: On validity of the original Bell inequality for the Werner nonseparable state
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407097
abstract: In quant-ph/0406139, we have introduced in a very general setting the new class of quantum states, density source-operator states, satisfying any classical CHSH-form inequality, and shown that any separable state belongs to this class. In the present paper, we prove that the Werner nonseparable state also belongs to the class of density source-operator states. Moreover, for any dimension d>2, the Werner state is in such a subclass of this class where each density source-operator state satisfies also the perfect correlation form of the original Bell inequality regardless of whether or not the Bell perfect correlation restriction is fulfilled. The latter earlier unknown property of the Werner state can be verified experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0407098
title: Dynamical Imperfections in quantum computers
authors: Paolo Facchi, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 060306(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407098
abstract: We study the effects of dynamical imperfections in quantum computers. By considering an explicit example, we identify different regimes ranging from the low-frequency case, where the imperfections can be considered as static but with renormalized parameters, to the high frequency fluctuations, where the effects of imperfections are completely wiped out. We generalize our results by proving a theorem on the dynamical evolution of a system in the presence of dynamical perturbations.

id: quant-ph/0407099
title: Initial state maximizing the nonexponentially decaying survival probability for unstable multilevel systems
authors: Manabu Miyamoto
comments: 5 pages, 1 table. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 032108 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407099
abstract: The long-time behavior of the survival probability for unstable multilevel systems that follows the power-decay law is studied based on the N-level Friedrichs model, and is shown to depend on the initial population in unstable states. A special initial state maximizing the asymptote of the survival probability at long times is found and examined by considering the spontaneous emission process for the hydrogen atom interacting with the electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0407100
title: Exact Numerical Solution of the BCS Pairing Problem
authors: Feng Xu, An Min Wang, Xiaodong Yang, Hao You, Xiaosan Ma
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407100
abstract: We propose a new simulation computational method to solve the reduced BCS Hamiltonian based on spin analogy and submatrix diagonalization. Then we further apply this method to solve superconducting energy gap and the results are well consistent with those obtained by Bogoliubov transformation method. The exponential problem of 2^{N}-dimension matrix is reduced to the polynomial problem of N-dimension matrix. It is essential to validate this method on a real quantum

id: quant-ph/0407101
title: Effective-mass Schroedinger equation and generation of solvable potentials
authors: B. Bagchi, P. Gorain, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 9 pages, no figure, communication at "2nd International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics", Prague, Czech Republic, June 14-16,2004
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 54 (2004) 1019-1026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407101
abstract: A one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with position-dependent effective mass in the kinetic energy operator is studied in the framework of an $so(2,1)$ algebra. New mass-deformed versions of Scarf II, Morse and generalized P\"oschl-Teller potentials are obtained. Consistency with an intertwining condition is pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0407102
title: Quantum Networks for Generating Arbitrary Quantum States
authors: Phillip Kaye, Michele Mosca
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures. This paper previously appeared in: Proceedings, International Conference on Quantum Information (ICQI). Rochester, New York, USA, 2001
journal: Phillip Kaye, Michele Mosca, "Quantum Networks for Generating Arbitrary Quantum States", Proceedings, International Conference on Quantum Information (ICQI). Rochester, New York, USA, 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407102
abstract: Quantum protocols often require the generation of specific quantum states. We describe a quantum algorithm for generating any prescribed quantum state. For an important subclass of states, including pure symmetric states, this algorithm is efficient.

id: quant-ph/0407103
title: Economical Phase-Covariant Cloning of Qudits
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 10 pages revtex4, 7 figures, replaced with modified version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042327 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407103
abstract: We derive the optimal N to M phase-covariant quantum cloning for equatorial states in dimension d with M=kd+N, k integer. The cloning maps are optimal for both global and single-qudit fidelity. The map is achieved by an ``economical'' cloning machine, which works without ancilla.

id: quant-ph/0407104
title: Multiple Round Quantum Dense Coding And Its Implementation Using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Jingyi Xie, Chuan Wang, Zhiwei Deng, Zhiheng Lu, Guilu Long
comments: Welcome comments to zhang-jf@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407104
abstract: A multiple round quantum dense coding (MRQDC) scheme based on the quantum phase estimation algorithm is proposed. Using an $m+1$ qubit system, Bob can transmit $2^{m+1}$ messages to Alice, through manipulating only one qubit and exchanging it between Alice and Bob for $m$ rounds. The information capacity is enhanced to $m+1$ bits. We have implemented the scheme in a three- qubit nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. The experimental results show a good agreement between theory and experiment.

id: quant-ph/0407105
title: Probing the evolution of Stark wave packets by a weak half cycle pulse
authors: H. Wen, S. N. Pisharody, J. M. Murray, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 4 pages, incl. 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: H. Wen, S.N. Pisharody, J. M. Murray, and P.H. Bucksbaum, Phys. Rev. A 71, 013407 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407105
abstract: We probe the dynamic evolution of a Stark wave packet in cesium using weak half-cycle pulses (HCP's). The state-selective field ionization(SSFI) spectra taken as a function of HCP delay reveal wave packet dynamics such as Kepler beats, Stark revivals and fractional revivals. A quantum-mechanical simulation explains the results as multi-mode interference induced by the HCP.

id: quant-ph/0407106
title: Superconducting Phase Qubit Coupled to a Nanomechanical Resonator: Beyond the Rotating-Wave Approximation
authors: Andrew T. Sornborger, Andrew N. Cleland, Michael R. Geller
comments: 7 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407106
abstract: We consider a simple model of a Josephson junction phase qubit coupled to a solid-state nanoelectromechanical resonator. This and many related qubit-resonator models are analogous to an atom in an electromagnetic cavity. When the systems are weakly coupled and nearly resonant, the dynamics is accurately described by the rotating-wave approximation (RWA) or the Jaynes-Cummings model of quantum optics. However, the desire to develop faster quantum-information-processing protocols necessitates approximate, yet analytic descriptions that are valid for more strongly coupled qubit-resonator systems. Here we present a simple theoretical technique, using a basis of dressed states, to perturbatively account for the leading-order corrections to the RWA. By comparison with exact numerical results, we demonstrate that the method is accurate for moderately strong coupling, and provides a useful theoretical tool for describing fast quantum information processing. The method applies to any quantum two-level system linearly coupled to a harmonic oscillator or single-mode boson field.

id: quant-ph/0407107
title: Atom waveguide using a two-color evanescent light field around a subwavelength-diameter optical fiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, V. I. Balykin, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407107
abstract: We suggest using a two-color evanescent light field around a subwavelength-diameter fiber to trap and guide atoms. The optical fiber carries a red-detuned light and a blue-detuned light, with both modes far from resonance. When both input light fields are circularly polarized, a set of trapping minima of the total potential in the transverse plane is formed as a ring around the fiber. This design allows confinement of atoms to a cylindrical shell around the fiber. When one or both of the input light fields are linearly polarized, the total potential has two local minimum points in the transverse plane. This design allows confinement of atoms to two straight lines parallel to the fiber axis. Due to the thin thickness of the fiber, we can use far-off-resonance fields with substantially differing evanescent decay lengths to produce a net potential with a large depth, a large coherence time, and a large trap lifetime. For example, a 0.2-$\mu$m-radius silica fiber carrying 30 mW of 1.06-$\mu$m-wavelength light and 29 mW of 700-nm-wavelength light, both fields are circularly polarized at the input, gives for cesium atoms a trap depth of 2.9 mK, a coherence time of 32 ms, and a recoil-heating-limited trap lifetime of 541 s.

id: quant-ph/0407108
title: Super controlled gates and controlled gates in two-qubit gate simulations
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407108
abstract: In two-qubit gate simulations an entangling gate is used several times together with single qubit gates to simulate another two-qubit gate. We show how a two-qubit gate's simulation power is related to the simulation power of its mirror gate. And we show that an arbitrary two-qubit gate can be simulated by three applications of a super controlled gate together with single qubit gates. We also give the gates set that can be simulated by n applications of a controlled gate in a constructive way. In addition we give some gates which can be used four times to simulate an arbitrary two-qubit gate.

id: quant-ph/0407109
title: Ensemble Algorithm for the Selection Problem by NMR Ensemble Quantum Computers
authors: Chien-Yuan Chen, Chih-Cheng Hsueh
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407109
abstract: In this paper, we present an ensemble algorithm for selection problem to find the k-th smallest element in the unsorted database. We will search the k-th smallest element by using "divide-and-conquer" strategy. We first divide D, the domain of the database, into two parts, determine which of the two parts the object element sought belongs to, and then concentrate on that part. We repeat divide that part until object element is found. The determination of which part depends on the output of ensemble counting scheme, which outputs the number of assignments satisfying the value of the oracle query function is set to one. Our algorithm modifies the ensemble counting scheme by constructing a new oracle query function g_y(j). We set g_y(j) to one if the j-th element is less than or equal to y. At first, we set y to the middle value of D and perform the ensemble counting scheme with the oracle query function g_y(.) to compute the number C, the number of j satisfying g_y(j)=1. If C>k, the object element lies in the first half of D. If C<=k, then it must be in the second half of D. We recursively apply this method by adapting y until the object element is found. Our algorithm thus requires O(ln|D|) oracle queries for adequate measure accuracy to find the k-th smallest element, where |D| denotes the size of D.

id: quant-ph/0407110
title: Maximal violation of the Ardehali's inequality of $n$ qubits
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407110
abstract: In this paper, we characterize the maximal violation of Ardehali's inequality of $n$ qubits by showing that GHZ's states and the states obtained from them by local unitary transformations are the unique states that maximally violate the Ardehali's inequalities. This concludes that Ardehali's inequalities can be used to characterize maximally entangled states of $n$ qubits, as the same as Mermin's and Bell-Klyshko's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0407111
title: Operator-sum representation of time-dependent density operators and its applications
authors: D. M. Tong, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh, Jing-Ling Chen, L. Ma
comments: 4 pages, no figure, brief report
journal: Physical Review A 69, 054102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407111
abstract: We show that any arbitrary time-dependent density operator of an open system can always be described in terms of an operator-sum representation regardless of its initial condition and the path of its evolution in the state space, and we provide a general expression of Kraus operators for arbitrary time-dependent density operator of an $N$-dimensional system. Moreover, applications of our result are illustrated through several examples.

id: quant-ph/0407112
title: A quantum model for collective recoil lasing
authors: R. Bonifacio, M.M. Cola, N. Piovella
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 69, 55 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407112
abstract: Free Electron Laser (FEL) and Collective Atomic Recoil Laser (CARL) are described by the same model of classical equations for properly defined scaled variables. These equations are extended to the quantum domain describing the particle's motion by a Schr\"{o}dinger equation coupled to a self-consistent radiation field. The model depends on a single collective parameter $\bar \rho$ which represents the maximum number of photons emitted per particle. We demonstrate that the classical model is recovered in the limit $\bar \rho\gg 1$, in which the Wigner function associated to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation obeys to the classical Vlasov equation. On the contrary, for $\bar \rho\le 1$, a new quantum regime is obtained in which both FELs and CARLs behave as a two-state system coupled to the self-consistent radiation field and described by Maxwell-Bloch equations.

id: quant-ph/0407113
title: Efficient fiber coupling of down-conversion photon pairs
authors: Andrzej Dragan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407113
abstract: We develop and apply an effective analytic theory of a non-collinear, broadband type-I parametric down-conversion to study a coupling efficiency of the generated photon pairs into single mode optical fibers. We derive conditions necessary for highly efficient coupling for single and double type-I crystal producing polarization entangled states of light. We compare the obtained approximate analytic expressions with the exact numerical solutions and discuss the results for a case of BBO crystals.

id: quant-ph/0407114
title: Nonergodicity of entanglement and its complementary behavior to magnetization in infinite spin chain
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, RevTeX4; v2: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Comm.) 70, 060304 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407114
abstract: We consider the problem of the validity of a statistical mechanical description of two-site entanglement in an infinite spin chain described by the XY model Hamiltonian. We show that the two-site entanglement of the state, evolved from the initial equilibrium state, after a change of the magnetic field, does not approach its equilibrium value. This suggests that two-site entanglement, like (single-site) magnetization, is a nonergodic quantity in this model. Moreover we show that these two nonergodic quantities behave in a complementary way.

id: quant-ph/0407115
title: Caianiello's maximal acceleration. Recent developments
authors: G. Papini
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407115
abstract: A quantum mechanical upper limit on the value of particle accelerations is consistent with the behavior of a class of superconductors and well known particle decay rates. It also sets limits on the mass of the Higgs boson and affects the stability of compact stars. In particular, type-I superconductors in static conditions offer an example of a dynamics in which acceleration has an upper limit.

id: quant-ph/0407116
title: Bell-Type Quantum Field Theories
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 53 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A38:R1,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407116
abstract: In [Phys. Rep. 137, 49 (1986)] John S. Bell proposed how to associate particle trajectories with a lattice quantum field theory, yielding what can be regarded as a |Psi|^2-distributed Markov process on the appropriate configuration space. A similar process can be defined in the continuum, for more or less any regularized quantum field theory; such processes we call Bell-type quantum field theories. We describe methods for explicitly constructing these processes. These concern, in addition to the definition of the Markov processes, the efficient calculation of jump rates, how to obtain the process from the processes corresponding to the free and interaction Hamiltonian alone, and how to obtain the free process from the free Hamiltonian or, alternatively, from the one-particle process by a construction analogous to "second quantization." As an example, we consider the process for a second quantized Dirac field in an external electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0407117
title: Parts of Quantum States
authors: Nick S. Jones, Noah Linden
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012324 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407117
abstract: It is shown that generic N-party pure quantum states (with equidimensional subsystems) are uniquely determined by their reduced states of just over half the parties; in other words, all the information in almost all N-party pure states is in the set of reduced states of just over half the parties. For N even, the reduced states in fewer than N/2 parties are shown to be an insufficient description of almost all states (similar results hold when N is odd). It is noted that Real Algebraic Geometry is a natural framework for any analysis of parts of quantum states: two simple polynomials, a quadratic and a cubic, contain all of their structure. Algorithmic techniques are described which can provide conditions for sets of reduced states to belong to pure or mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0407118
title: Unitarity as preservation of entropy and entanglement in quantum systems
authors: Florian Hulpke, Uffe V. Poulsen, Anna Sanpera, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: To be submitted to the special issue of Foundations of Physics on the occassion of the seventieth birthday of Emilio Santos. v2: 10 pages, no figures, RevTeX4; Corrected and extended version, containing new results on consequences of entanglement preservation
journal: Foundations of Physics 36, 477-499 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407118
abstract: The logical structure of Quantum Mechanics (QM) and its relation to other fundamental principles of Nature has been for decades a subject of intensive research. In particular, the question whether the dynamical axiom of QM can be derived from other principles has been often considered. In this contribution, we show that unitary evolutions arise as a consequences of demanding preservation of entropy in the evolution of a single pure quantum system, and preservation of entanglement in the evolution of composite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0407119
title: Spin network setting of topological quantum computation
authors: Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: Proc. "Foundations of Quantum Information", Camerino (Italy), 16-19 April 2004, to be published in Int. J. of Quantum Information
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf.3:65-72, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407119
abstract: The spin network simulator model represents a bridge between (generalised) circuit schemes for standard quantum computation and approaches based on notions from Topological Quantum Field Theories (TQFTs). The key tool is provided by the fiber space structure underlying the model which exhibits combinatorial properties closely related to SU(2) state sum models, widely employed in discretizing TQFTs and quantum gravity in low spacetime dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0407120
title: Optimal conclusive discrimination of two states can be achieved locally
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Hongen Cao, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX, no figure. Comments, criticisms and suggestions are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032323 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407120
abstract: This paper constructs a LOCC protocol that achieves the global optimality in conclusive discrimination of any two states with arbitrary a priori probability. This can be interpreted that there is no ``non-locality'' in the conclusive discrimination of two multipartite states.

id: quant-ph/0407121
title: Quantum information and triangular optical lattices
authors: Alastair Kay, Derek K. K. Lee, Jiannis K. Pachos, Martin B. Plenio, Moritz E. Reuter, Enrique Rico
comments: 17 pages, 16 figues, based on talk presented by J. K. Pachos at CEWQO 2004
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy, 99, 355-372 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407121
abstract: The regular structures obtained by optical lattice technology and their behaviour are analysed from the quantum information perspective. Initially, we demonstrate that a triangular optical lattice of two atomic species, bosonic or fermionic, can be employed to generate a variety of novel spin-1/2 models that include effective three-spin interactions. Such interactions can be employed to simulate specific one or two dimensional physical systems that are of particular interest for their condensed matter and entanglement properties. In particular, connections between the scaling behaviour of entanglement and the entanglement properties of closely spaced spins are drawn. Moreover, three-spin interactions are well suited to support quantum computing without the need to manipulate individual qubits. By employing Raman transitions or the interaction of the atomic electric dipole moment with magnetic field gradients, one can generate Hamiltonians that can be used for the physical implementation of geometrical or topological objects. This work serves as a review article that also includes many new results.

id: quant-ph/0407122
title: Is partial quantum search of a database any easier?
authors: Lov K. Grover, Jaikumar Radhakrishnan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407122
abstract: In this paper, we consider the partial database search problem where given a database on N items, we are required to determine the first k bits of an address x such that f(x)=1. We derive an algorithm and a lower bound for this problem in the quantum circuits model. Let q(k,N) be the minimum number of queries needed to find the first k bits of the required address x. We show that there exist constants c_k and d_k such that (pi/4) (1 - d_k/sqrt{K}) sqrt{N} <= q(k,n) <= (pi/4) (1 - c_k/sqrt{K}) sqrt{N}, where K=2^k. Thus, it is always easier to determine a few bits of the target address than to find the entire address, but as k becomes large this advantage reduces rapidly.

id: quant-ph/0407123
title: Quantum versus classical scattering of Dirac particles by a solenoidal magnetic field and the correspondence principle
authors: Gabriela Murguia, Matias Moreno, Manuel Torres
comments: 18 pages, 7 Postscript figures; added references and appendix; minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407123
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the scattering of charged particles by the magnetic field of a long solenoid of constant magnetic flux and finite radius. We study the relativistic and non-relativistic quantum and classical scenarios. The classical limit of the perturbative quantum expressions, understood as the Planck's limit (making $\hbar$ going to zero) is analyzed and compared with the classical result. The classical cross section shows a general non-symmetric behavior with respect to the scattering angle in contradistinction to the quantum calculations performed so far. The various regimes analyzed show that the quantum cross sections do not satisfy the correspondence principle: they do not reduce to the classical result in any considered limit, an argument in favor of the interpretation of the process as a purely quantum phenomenon. We conclude that in order to restore the classical correspondence of the phenomenon, a complete non-perturbative quantum calculation for a finite solenoid radius is required.

id: quant-ph/0407124
title: Explicit formula for the external driving field used to eliminate the decoherence of a two-state system coupled to a noise field
authors: Jian-Qi Shen, Zhi-Chao Ruan, Sailing He
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407124
abstract: The elimination of decoherence of a multiphoton two-state quantum system by using an appropriate external driving field is considered. The multiphoton process caused by the noise field has a supersymmetric Lie algebraic structure. The time-evolution equations for the off-diagonal elements of the density operator of the two-state system are derived in the interaction picture. A simple explicit formula is given for the time-dependent external driving field used to eliminate the decoherence of the multiphoton two-state system.

id: quant-ph/0407125
title: Implementing fanout, parity, and Mod gates via spin exchange interactions
authors: Stephen A. Fenner, Yong Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407125
abstract: We show that, for any n > 0, the Heisenberg interaction among 2n qubits (as spin-1/2 particles) can be used to exactly implement an n-qubit parity gate, which is equivalent in constant depth to an n-qubit fanout gate. Either isotropic or nonisotropic versions of the interaction can be used. We generalize our basic results by showing that any Hamiltonian (acting on suitably encoded logical qubits), whose eigenvalues depend quadratically on the Hamming weight of the logical qubit values, can be used to implement generalized Mod_q gates for any q > 1. This paper is a sequel to quant-ph/0309163, and resolves a question left open in that paper.

id: quant-ph/0407126
title: Breaking Classical Public Key Cryptosystems by Using a Novel Ensemble Search Algorithm
authors: Chien-Yuan Chen
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407126
abstract: In this paper, we improve Bruschweiler's algorithm such that only one query is needed for searching the single object z from N=2^n unsorted elements. Our algorithm construct the new oracle query function g(.) satisfying g(x)=0 for all input x, except for one, say x=z, where g(z)=z. To store z, our algorithm extends from one ancillary qubit to n ancillary qubits. We then measure these ancillary qubits to discover z. We further use our ensemble search algorithm to attack classical public key cryptosystems. Given the ciphertext C=Ek(m, r) which is generated by the encryption function Ek(), a public key k, a message m, and a random number r, we can construct an oracle query function h(.) satisfying h(m', r')=0 if Ek(m', r')!=C and h(m', r')= (m', r') if Ek(m', r')=C. There is only one object, say (m, r), can be discovered in decryption of C. By preparing the input with all possible states of (m', r'), we can thus use our ensemble search algorithm to find the wanted object (m, r). Obviously, we break the classical public key cryptosystems under the ciphertext attack by performing the oracle query function only one time.

id: quant-ph/0407127
title: Quantum and classical correlated imaging
authors: J. Bogdanski, G. Bjork, A. Karlsson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407127
abstract: We outline the potential gains of quantum correlated imaging and compare it to classical correlated imaging. As shown earlier by A. Gatti, E. Bambilla, M. Bache, and L. A. Lugiato, ArXive:quant-ph/0405056, classical correlated imaging can mimic most features of quantum imaging but at lower signal-to-noise ratio for a given mean photon number (or intensity). In this paper we specifically investigate coherent correlated imaging, and show that while it is possible to perform such imaging using a thermal source, a coherent light-source provides a less demanding experimental setup. We also compare the performance to what can be obtained by using non-classical light.

id: quant-ph/0407128
title: Quasiperiodic dynamics of coherent diffusion: a quantum walk approach
authors: A.Wojcik, T.Luczak, P.Kurzynski, A.Grudka, M.Bednarska
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407128
abstract: We study the dynamics of a generalization of quantum coin walk on the line which is a natural model for a diffusion modified by quantum or interference effects. In particular, our results provide surprisingly simple explanations to phenomena observed by Bouwmeester et al. (Phys. Rev. A, 61, 13410 (1999)) in their optical Galton board experiment, and a description of a stroboscopic quantum walks given by Buershaper and Burnett (quant-ph/0406039) through numerical simulations. We also provide heuristic explanations for the behavior of our model which show, in particular, that its dynamics can be viewed as a discrete version of Bloch oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0407129
title: On the goodness of "quantum blobs" in phase space quantization
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407129
abstract: We replace the usual notion of quantum cell from statistical mechanics by that of "quantum blob". A quantum blob is the transform, by a linaer symplectic transformation, of a phase space ball with radius equal to the square root of h-bar. The intersection of a quantum blob with any symplectic plane is an ellipse with area one half of h. This very special property, which is closed related to the principle of the symplectic camel, leads to a symplectic invariant statement of the uncertainty principle. We moreover prove that the average of a phase space Gaussian over a quantum blob is the Wigner transform of a minimum uncertainty Gaussian.

id: quant-ph/0407130
title: Cryptanalysis of a Practical Quantum Key Distribution With Polarization-Entangled Photons
authors: Thomas Beth, Joern Mueller-Quade, Rainer Steinwandt
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407130
abstract: Recently, a quantum key exchange protocol has been described, which served as basis for securing an actual bank transaction by means of quantum cryptography [quant-ph/0404115]. Here we show, that the authentication scheme applied is insecure in the sense that an attacker can provoke a situation where initiator and responder of a key exchange end up with different keys. Moreover, it may happen that an attacker can decrypt a part of the plaintext protected with the derived encryption key.

id: quant-ph/0407131
title: A Novel Protocol-Authentication Algorithm Ruling Out a Man-in-the-Middle Attack in Quantum Cryptography
authors: M. Peev, M. N?lle, O. Maurhardt, T. Lor¨¹nser, M. Suda, A. Poppe, R. Ursin, A. Fedrizzi, A. Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, submitted to the International Journal of Quantum Information, Proceedings of the meeting "Foundations of Quantum Information", Camerino, April 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407131
abstract: In this work we review the security vulnerability of Quantum Cryptography with respect to "man-in-the-middle attacks" and the standard authentication methods applied to counteract these attacks. We further propose a modified authentication algorithm which features higher efficiency with respect to consumption of mutual secret bits.

id: quant-ph/0407132
title: The Physical Interpretation of PT-invariant Potentials
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 4 pages
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 54 (2004) 1139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407132
abstract: A purely imaginary potential can provide a phenomenological description of creation and absorption of quantum mechanical particles. PT-invariance of such a potential ensures that the non-unitary phenomena occur in a balanced manner. In spite of wells and sinks which locally violate the conservation of quantum probability, there is no net get loss or gain of particles. This, in turn, is intuitively consistent with real energy eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0407133
title: Efficient classical-communication-assisted local simulation of n-qubit GHZ correlations
authors: Tracey E. Tessier, Ivan H. Deutsch, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407133
abstract: We present a local hidden-variable model supplemented by classical communication that reproduces the quantum-mechanical predictions for measurements of all products of Pauli operators on an n-qubit GHZ state (or "cat state"). The simulation is efficient since the required amount of communication scales linearly with the number of qubits, even though there are Bell-type inequalities for these states for which the amount of violation grows exponentially with n. The structure of our model yields insight into the Gottesman-Knill theorem by demonstrating that, at least in this limited case, the correlations in the set of nonlocal hidden variables represented by the stabilizer generators are captured by an appropriate set of local hidden variables augmented by n-2 bits of classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0407134
title: Rigorous derivation of coherent resonant tunneling time and velocity in finite periodic systems
authors: C. Pacher, W. Boxleitner, E. Gornik
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 125317 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407134
abstract: The velocity $v_{res}$ of resonant tunneling electrons in finite periodic structures is analytically calculated in two ways. The first method is based on the fact that a transmission of unity leads to a coincidence of all still competing tunneling time definitions. Thus, having an indisputable resonant tunneling time $\tau_{res},$ we apply the natural definition $v_{res}=L/\tau_{res}$ to calculate the velocity. For the second method we combine Bloch's theorem with the transfer matrix approach to decompose the wave function into two Bloch waves. Then the expectation value of the velocity is calculated. Both different approaches lead to the same result, showing their physical equivalence. The obtained resonant tunneling velocity $v_{res}$ is smaller or equal to the group velocity times the magnitude of the complex transmission amplitude of the unit cell. Only at energies where the unit cell of the periodic structure has a transmission of unity $v_{res}$ equals the group velocity. Numerical calculations for a GaAs/AlGaAs superlattice are performed. For typical parameters the resonant velocity is below one third of the group velocity.

id: quant-ph/0407135
title: Complete hierarchies of efficient approximations to problems in entanglement theory
authors: J. Eisert, P. Hyllus, O. Guehne, M. Curty
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, tiny modifications, version to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062317 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407135
abstract: We investigate several problems in entanglement theory from the perspective of convex optimization. This list of problems comprises (A) the decision whether a state is multi-party entangled, (B) the minimization of expectation values of entanglement witnesses with respect to pure product states, (C) the closely related evaluation of the geometric measure of entanglement to quantify pure multi-party entanglement, (D) the test whether states are multi-party entangled on the basis of witnesses based on second moments and on the basis of linear entropic criteria, and (E) the evaluation of instances of maximal output purities of quantum channels. We show that these problems can be formulated as certain optimization problems: as polynomially constrained problems employing polynomials of degree three or less. We then apply very recently established known methods from the theory of semi-definite relaxations to the formulated optimization problems. By this construction we arrive at a hierarchy of efficiently solvable approximations to the solution, approximating the exact solution as closely as desired, in a way that is asymptotically complete. For example, this results in a hierarchy of novel, efficiently decidable sufficient criteria for multi-particle entanglement, such that every entangled state will necessarily be detected in some step of the hierarchy. Finally, we present numerical examples to demonstrate the practical accessibility of this approach.

id: quant-ph/0407136
title: Single-photon two-qubit SWAP gate for entanglement manipulation
authors: Marco Fiorentino, Taehyun Kim, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: Changes in the body of the paper, one reference added, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407136
abstract: A SWAP operation between different types of qubits of single photons is essential for manipulating hyperentangled photons for a variety of applications. We have implemented an efficient SWAP gate for the momentum and polarization degrees of freedom of single photons. The SWAP gate was utilized in a single-photon two-qubit quantum logic circuit to deterministically transfer momentum entanglement between a pair of down-converted photons to polarization entanglement. The polarization entanglement thus obtained violates Bell's inequality by more than 150 standard deviations.

id: quant-ph/0407137
title: Quantum teleportation via two qubit Heisenberg XY chain - Effects of anisotropy and magnetic field
authors: Ye Yeo, Tongqi Liu, Yu-En Lu, Qi-Zhong Yang
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407137
abstract: In this paper, we study the influence of anisotropy on the usefulness, of the entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XY chain at thermal equilibrium in the presence of an external magnetic field, as resource for quantum teleportation via the standard teleportation protocol. We show that the nonzero thermal entanglement produced by adjusting the external magnetic field strength beyond some critical strength is a useful resource. We also considered entanglement teleportation via two two-qubit Heisenberg XY chains.

id: quant-ph/0407138
title: Two-Way Quantum Number Distribution Based on Entanglement and Bell-State Measurements
authors: Sung Soon Jang, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407138
abstract: A scheme is proposed by which two parties, Alice and Bob, can securely exchange real numbers. The scheme requires Alice and Bob to share entanglement and both to perform Bell-state measurements. With a qubit system two real numbers can each be sent by Alice and Bob, resulting in four real numbers shared by them. The number of real numbers that can be shared increases if higher-dimensional systems are utilized. The number of significant figures of each shared real number depends upon the number of Bell-state measurements that Alice and Bob perform. The security of the scheme against individual eavesdropping attacks is analyzed and the effects of channel losses and errors discussed.

id: quant-ph/0407139
title: Advantages of high-speed technique for quantum key distribution; reply to quant-ph/0407050
authors: J. C. Bienfang, Charles W. Clark, Carl J. Williams, E. W. Hagley, Jesse Wen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407139
abstract: We respond to a comment on our high-speed technique for the implementation of free-space quantum key distribution (QKD). The model used in the comment assigns inappropriately high link losses to the technique in question. We show that the use of reasonable loss parameters in the model invalidates the comment's main conclusion and highlights the benefits of increased transmission rates.

id: quant-ph/0407140
title: Implementing high dimensional unitary representations of SU(2) on a Quantum Computer
authors: Christof Zalka
comments: 8 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407140
abstract: In this note we consider a system with a large angular momentum l whose state we can store using some log_2(l) qubits. The problem then is how to carry out spatial rotations of the system in this representation. In other words we are looking at a unitary representation of SU(2) with dimension 2l+1 and want to implement these transformations with resources polynomial in log(l). We only give a sketch of our solution which involves ``storing'' discretised spherical harmonic functions Y_{l,m}(Theta,phi) in a quantum register. Also there are some technical gaps in the construction, but they are based on plausible assumptions. Our approach is rather cumbersome and we hope somebody will find a nicer solution. For a nice, elementary explanation of what we are trying to do (not involving physics or representation theory) see section 4.6.2.

id: quant-ph/0407141
title: An iterative method for extreme optics of two-level systems
authors: R. Parzynski, M. Sobczak, A. Plucinska
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407141
abstract: We formulate the problem of a two-level system in a linearly polarized laser field in terms of a nonlinear Riccati-type differential equation and solve the equation analytically in time intervals much shorter than half the optical period. The analytical solutions for subsequent intervals are then stuck together in an iterative procedure to cover the scale time of the laser pulse. This approach is applicable to pulses of arbitrary (nonrelativistic) strengths, shapes and durations, thus covering the whole region of light-matter couplings from weak through moderate to strong ones. The method allows quick insight into different problems from the field of light--matter interaction. Very good quality of the method is shown by recovering with it a number of subtle effects met in earlier numerically calculated photon-emission spectra from model molecular ions, double quantum wells, atoms and semiconductors. The method presented is an efficient mathematical tool to describe novel effects in the region of, e.g., extreme nonlinear optics, i.e., when two--level systems are exposed to pulses of only a few cycles in duration and strength ensuring the Rabi frequency to approach and even exceed the laser light frequence.

id: quant-ph/0407142
title: Manipulation of optical solitons in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko
comments: 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B:Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 416-422
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407142
abstract: We propose a method to control the optical transparency of a Bose-Einstein condensate with working energy levels of the Lambda-type. The reported effects are essentially nonlinear and are considered in the framework of an exactly solvable model describing the interaction of light with a Lambda-type medium. We show how the complicated nonlinear interplay between fast and slow solitons in the $\Lambda$-type medium points to a possibility to create optical gates as well as to a possibility to store optical information.

id: quant-ph/0407143
title: Detecting multipartite entanglement
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Pablo A. Parrilo, Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 9 pages, REVTEX
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 71, 032333 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407143
abstract: We discuss the problem of determining whether the state of several quantum mechanical subsystems is entangled. As in previous work on two subsystems we introduce a procedure for checking separability that is based on finding state extensions with appropriate properties and may be implemented as a semidefinite program. The main result of this work is to show that there is a series of tests of this kind such that if a multiparty state is entangled this will eventually be detected by one of the tests. The procedure also provides a means of constructing entanglement witnesses that could in principle be measured in order to demonstrate that the state is entangled.

id: quant-ph/0407144
title: Decomposition of time-covariant operations on quantum systems with continuous and/or discrete energy spectrum
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: latex, 33 pages, domains of unbounded operators are now explicitly specified. Presentation more detailed. Implementing the shift after the dephasing is sometimes more convenient
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407144
abstract: Every completely positive map G that commutes which the Hamiltonian time evolution is an integral or sum over (densely defined) CP-maps G_\sigma where \sigma is the energy that is transferred to or taken from the environment. If the spectrum is non-degenerated each G_\sigma is a dephasing channel followed by an energy shift. The dephasing is given by the Hadamard product of the density operator with a (formally defined) positive operator. The Kraus operator of the energy shift is a partial isometry which defines a translation on R with respect to a non-translation-invariant measure. As an example, I calculate this decomposition explicitly for the rotation invariant gaussian channel on a single mode. I address the question under what conditions a covariant channel destroys superpositions between mutually orthogonal states on the same orbit. For channels which allow mutually orthogonal output states on the same orbit, a lower bound on the quantum capacity is derived using the Fourier transform of the CP-map-valued measure (G_\sigma).

id: quant-ph/0407145
title: Tracing the bounds on Bell-type inequalities
authors: Stefan Filipp, Karl Svozil
comments: presented at: Foundations of Probability and Physics-3, Vaexjoe University, Sweden, June 7-12, 2004
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 750. Foundations of Probability and Physics-3, ed. by Andrei Khrennikov (American Institute of Physics,Melville, NY, 2005), pp. 87-94.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407145
abstract: Bell-type inequalities and violations thereof reveal the fundamental differences between standard probability theory and its quantum counterpart. In the course of previous investigations ultimate bounds on quantum mechanical violations have been found. For example, Tsirelson's bound constitutes a global upper limit for quantum violations of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) and the Clauser-Horne (CH) inequalities. Here we investigate a method for calculating the precise quantum bounds on arbitrary Bell-type inequalities by solving the eigenvalue problem for the operator associated with each Bell-type inequality. Thereby, we use the min-max principle to calculate the norm of these self-adjoint operators from the maximal eigenvalue yielding the upper bound for a particular set of measurement parameters. The eigenvectors corresponding to the maximal eigenvalues provide the quantum state for which a Bell-type inequality is maximally violated.

id: quant-ph/0407146
title: Squeezing spectra from s-ordered quasiprobability distributions. Application to dispersive optical bistability
authors: Ferran V. Garcia-Ferrer, Isabel Perez-Arjona, German J. de Valcarcel, Eugenio Roldan
comments: 15 pages, no figures, to be published in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 52 (2005) 763-773
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407146
abstract: It is well known that the squeezing spectrum of the field exiting a nonlinear cavity can be directly obtained from the fluctuation spectrum of normally ordered products of creation and annihilation operators of the cavity mode. In this article we show that the output field squeezing spectrum can be derived also by combining the fluctuation spectra of any pair of s-ordered products of creation and annihilation operators. The interesting result is that the spectrum obtained in this way from the linearized Langevin equations is exact, and this occurs in spite of the fact that no s-ordered quasiprobability distribution verifies a true Fokker-Planck equation, i.e., the Langevin equations used for deriving the squeezing spectrum are not exact. The (linearized) intracavity squeezing obtained from any s-ordered distribution is also exact. These results are exemplified in the problem of dispersive optical bistability.

id: quant-ph/0407147
title: Jensen-Shannon divergence, Fisher information, and Wootters' hypothesis
authors: M. Casas, P.W. Lamberti, A. Plastino, A.R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407147
abstract: We discuss different statistical distances in probability space, with emphasis on the Jensen-Shannon divergence, vis-a-vis {\it metrics} in Hilbert space and their relationship with Fisher's information measure. This study provides further reconfirmation of Wootters' hypothesis concerning the possibility that statistical fluctuations in the outcomes of measurements be regarded (at least partly) as responsible for the Hilbert-space structure of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0407148
title: Collective attacks and unconditional security in continuous variable quantum key distribution
authors: Frederic Grosshans
comments: Minor orthographic and grammatical corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407148
abstract: We present here an information theoretic study of Gaussian collective attacks on the continuous variable key distribution protocols based on Gaussian modulation of coherent states. These attacks, overlooked in previous security studies, give a finite advantage to the eavesdropper in the experimentally relevant lossy channel, but are not powerful enough to reduce the range of the reverse reconciliation protocols. Secret key rates are given for the ideal case where Bob performs optimal collective measurements, as well as for the realistic cases where he performs homodyne or heterodyne measurements. We also apply the generic security proof of Christiandl et. al. [quant-ph/0402131] to obtain unconditionally secure rates for these protocols.

id: quant-ph/0407149
title: Security bounds for continuous variables quantum key distribution
authors: Miguel Navascues, Antonio Acin
comments: See also F. Grosshans, quant-ph/0407148
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 020505 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407149
abstract: Security bounds for key distribution protocols using coherent and squeezed states and homodyne measurements are presented. These bounds refer to (i) general attacks and (ii) collective attacks where Eve interacts individually with the sent states, but delays her measurement until the end of the reconciliation process. For the case of a lossy line and coherent states, it is first proven that a secure key distribution is possible up to 1.9 dB of losses. For the second scenario, the security bounds are the same as for the completely incoherent attack.

id: quant-ph/0407150
title: Towards a quantum evolutionary scheme: violating Bell's inequalities in language
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 20 pages, no figures, this version of the paper is equal to the foregoing. The paper has meanwhile been published in another book series than the one tentatively mentioned in the comments given with the foregoing version
journal: In N. Gontier, J. P. Van Bendegem and D. Aerts (Eds.), Evolutionary Epistemology, Language and Culture. Dordrecht: Springer (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407150
abstract: We show the presence of genuine quantum structures in human language. The neo-Darwinian evolutionary scheme is founded on a probability structure that satisfies the Kolmogorovian axioms, and as a consequence cannot incorporate quantum-like evolutionary change. In earlier research we revealed quantum structures in processes taking place in conceptual space. We argue that the presence of quantum structures in language and the earlier detected quantum structures in conceptual change make the neo-Darwinian evolutionary scheme strictly too limited for Evolutionary Epistemology. We sketch how we believe that evolution in a more general way should be implemented in epistemology and conceptual change, but also in biology, and how this view would lead to another relation between both biology and epistemology.

id: quant-ph/0407151
title: Thermodynamical Cost of Accessing Quantum Information
authors: K. Maruyama, C. Brukner, V. Vedral
comments: 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 38, 7175 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407151
abstract: Thermodynamics is a macroscopic physical theory whose two very general laws are independent of any underlying dynamical laws and structures. Nevertheless, its generality enables us to understand a broad spectrum of phenomena in physics, information science and biology. Recently, it has been realised that information storage and processing based on quantum mechanics can be much more efficient than their classical counterpart. What general bound on storage of quantum information does thermodynamics imply? We show that thermodynamics implies a weaker bound than the quantum mechanical one (the Holevo bound). In other words, if any post-quantum physics should allow more information storage it could still be under the umbrella of thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0407152
title: Multiparty data hiding of quantum information
authors: Patrick Hayden, Debbie Leung, Graeme Smith
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, 2 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71:062339 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407152
abstract: We present protocols for multiparty data hiding of quantum information that implement all possible threshold access structures. Closely related to secret sharing, data hiding has a more demanding security requirement: that the data remain secure against unrestricted LOCC attacks. In the limit of hiding a large amount of data, our protocols achieve an asymptotic rate of one hidden qubit per local physical qubit. That is, each party holds a share that is the same size as the hidden state to leading order, with accuracy and security parameters incurring an overhead that is asymptotically negligible. The data hiding states have very unusual entanglement properties, which we briefly discuss.

id: quant-ph/0407153
title: Casimir force between designed materials: what is possible and what not
authors: Carsten Henkel, Karl Joulain
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, graphicx, v4: Europhysics Letters, in press
journal: Europhys Lett 72 (2005) 929-935
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407153
abstract: We establish strict upper limits for the Casimir interaction between multilayered structures of arbitrary dielectric or diamagnetic materials. We discuss the appearance of different power laws due to frequency-dependent material constants. Simple analytical expressions are in good agreement with numerical calculations based on Lifshitz theory. We discuss the improvements required for current (meta) materials to achieve a repulsive Casimir force.

id: quant-ph/0407154
title: Gaussian-random Ensembles of Pseudo-Hermitian Matrices
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: Invited Talk Delivered in II International Workshop on `Pseudo-Hermitian Hanmiltonians in Physics' at Prague, June 14-16, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407154
abstract: Attention has been brought to the possibility that statistical fluctuation properties of several complex spectra, or, well-known number sequences may display strong signatures that the Hamiltonian yielding them as eigenvalues is PT-symmetric (Pseudo-Hermitian). We find that the random matrix theory of pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians gives rise to new universalities of level-spacing distributions other than those of GOE, GUE and GSE of Wigner and Dyson. We call the new proposals as Gaussian Pseudo-Orthogonal Ensemble and Gaussian Pseudo-Unitary Ensemble. We are also led to speculate that the enigmatic Riemann-zeros (${1 \over 2}\pm i t_n)$ would rather correspond to some PT-symmetric (pseudo-Hermitian) Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0407155
title: Direct measurement of superluminal group velocity and of signal velocity in an optical fiber
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Valerio Scarani, Mark Wegmuller, Matthieu Legre, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 203902 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407155
abstract: We present an easy way of observing superluminal group velocities using a birefringent optical fiber and other standard devices. In the theoretical analysis, we show that the optical properties of the setup can be described using the notion of "weak value". The experiment shows that the group velocity can indeed exceed c in the fiber; and we report the first direct observation of the so-called "signal velocity", the speed at which information propagates and that cannot exceed c.

id: quant-ph/0407156
title: Purifications Without Entanglement, State Reconstructions and Entropy
authors: Chirag Dhara, N.D. Hari Dass
comments: 6 pages in REVTEX4. This is a considerably extended and revised version of the earlier quant-ph/0407156. The analysis of maximum entropy states is a new feature. Many new results have been added. Earlier derivations have been simplified and made more transparent
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407156
abstract: In this paper we have analysed in detail two different purification protocols. The first one, proposed by Sudarshan, is based on the preservation of probabilities.We have constructed a second protocol here based on optimisation of fidelities. We have considered both complete and partial measurements and have established bounds and inequalities for various fidelities. For every type of measurement, we have analysed post-measurement states based on the Maximum entropy principle as well as what we have proposed as unbiased states. We show that our purification protocol always leads to better state reconstruction. These schemes can be thought of as operations in the sense of Kraus and we have explicitly constructed the Kraus operators for these. We have also shown that the entropy either increases or remains the same depending on the choice of the purification basis.

id: quant-ph/0407157
title: On the control of the lateral Casimir force between corrugated surfaces
authors: E. V. Blagov, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.69, N4, p.044103-(1-4), 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407157
abstract: The general perturbative expression for the lateral Casimir force between two plates covered by longitudinal corrugations of arbitrary shape is obtained. This expression is applicable for corrugation periods larger than the separation distance. The cases of asymmetric corrugations are considered, which allow to increase the maximum to minimum force ratio and affect the character of equilibrium points. This opens new opportunities to control the lateral Casimir forces for use in microelectromechanical devices based entirely on the vacuum fluctuation properties.

id: quant-ph/0407158
title: Alternative Descriptions in Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Blasi, G. Scolarici, L. Solombrino
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407158
abstract: We characterize the quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic operators in QQM by means of their spectra; moreover, we state a necessary and sufficient condition for a set of quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic operators to be anti-Hermitian with respect to a uniquely defined positive scalar product in a infinite dimensional (right) quaternionic Hilbert space. According to such results we obtain two alternative descriptions of a quantum optical physical system, in the realm of quaternionic quantum mechanics, while no alternative can exist in complex quantum mechanics, and we discuss some differences between them.

id: quant-ph/0407159
title: Quantum States from Tangent Vectors
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: Refs. updated
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A19 (2004) 2339-2352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407159
abstract: We argue that tangent vectors to classical phase space give rise to quantum states of the corresponding quantum mechanics. This is established for the case of complex, finite-dimensional, compact, classical phase spaces C, by explicitly constructing Hilbert-space vector bundles over C. We find that these vector bundles split as the direct sum of two holomorphic vector bundles: the holomorphic tangent bundle T(C), plus a complex line bundle N(C). Quantum states (except the vacuum) appear as tangent vectors to C. The vacuum state appears as the fibrewise generator of N(C). Holomorphic line bundles N(C) are classified by the elements of Pic(C), the Picard group of C. In this way Pic(C) appears as the parameter space for nonequivalent vacua. Our analysis is modelled on, but not limited to, the case when C is complex projective space.

id: quant-ph/0407160
title: An Algebraic Construction of Generalized Coherent States for Shape-Invariant Potentials
authors: A. N. F. Aleixo, A. B. Balantekin
comments: 14 pages of REVTEX
journal: J.Phys.A37:8513,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407160
abstract: Generalized coherent states for shape invariant potentials are constructed using an algebraic approach based on supersymmetric quantum mechanics. We show this generalized formalism is able to: a) supply the essential requirements necessary to establish a connection between classical and quantum formulations of a given system (continuity of labeling, resolution of unity, temporal stability, and action identity); b) reproduce results already known for shape-invariant systems, like harmonic oscillator, double anharmonic, Poschl-Teller and self-similar potentials and; c) point to a formalism that provides an unified description of the different kind of coherent states for quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0407161
title: Multi-splitter interaction for entanglement distribution
authors: H. McAneney, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4; discussion on quantum state transfer added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 070501 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407161
abstract: In protocols of distributed quantum information processing, a network of bilateral entanglement is a key resource for efficient communication and computation. We propose a model, efficient both in finite and infinite Hilbert spaces, that performs entanglement distribution among the elements of a network without local control. In the establishment of entangled channels, our setup requires only the proper preparation of a single elected element. We suggest a setup of electromechanical systems to implement our proposal.

id: quant-ph/0407162
title: The Lorentz-Dirac force from QED for linear acceleration
authors: Atsushi Higuchi, Giles D. R. Martin
comments: 4 pages, no figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys.Rev.D70:081701,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407162
abstract: We investigate the motion of a wave packet of a charged scalar particle linearly accelerated by a static potential in quantum electrodynamics. We calculate the expectation value of the position of the charged particle after the acceleration to first order in the fine structure constant in the hbar -> 0 limit. We find that the change in the expectation value of the position (the position shift) due to radiation reaction agrees exactly with the result obtained using the Lorentz-Dirac force in classical electrodynamics. We also point out that the one-loop correction to the potential may contribute to the position change in this limit.

id: quant-ph/0407163
title: Mapping of Euclidean resonance on static resonant tunneling
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407163
abstract: Quantum tunneling through an almost classical potential barrier can be strongly enhanced by a nonstationary field so that the penetration through the barrier becomes not exponentially small. This constitutes an extremely unusual phenomenon of quantum physics called Euclidean resonance. A certain nonstationary barrier is proposed with a very low WKB tunneling rate. The quantum dynamics of this barrier is mapped on resonant tunneling across a static double barrier with a resonant level inside. The real penetration through the dynamical barrier is not exponentially small providing an example of Euclidean resonance. Therefore, the Schoedinger equation allows solutions of the type of Euclidean resonance. The counterintuitive phenomenon of Euclidean resonance is a dynamical analogue of static resonant tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0407164
title: Remote spectral measurement using entangled photons
authors: Giuliano Scarcelli, Alejandra Valencia, Samuel Gompers, Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters Vol 83 Num 26, Page 5560 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407164
abstract: By utilizing the frequency anticorrelation of two-photon states produced via spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC), the working principle of a novel remote spectrometer is demonstrated. With the help of a local scanning monochromator, the spectral transmission function of an optical element (or atmosphere) at remote locations can be characterized for wide range of wavelengths with expected high resolution.

id: quant-ph/0407165
title: Quantum parallelism of the controlled-NOT operation: an experimental criterion for the evaluation of device performance
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 6 pages, no figures, added references and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407165
abstract: It is shown that a quantum controlled-NOT gate simultaneously performs the logical functions of three distinct conditional local operations. Each of these local operations can be verified by measuring a corresponding truth table of four local inputs and four local outputs. The quantum parallelism of the gate can then be observed directly in a set of three simple experimental tests, each of which has a clear intuitive interpretation in terms of classical logical operations. Specifically, quantum parallelism is achieved if the average fidelity of the three classical operations exceeds 2/3. It is thus possible to evaluate the essential quantum parallelism of an experimental controlled-NOT gate by testing only three characteristic classical operations performed by the gate.

id: quant-ph/0407166
title: Depolarization channels with zero-bandwidth noises
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Krzysztow W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407166
abstract: A simple model describing depolarization channels with zero-bandwidth environment is presented and exactly solved. The environment is modelled by Lorentzian, telegraphic and Gaussian zero-bandwidth noises. Such channels can go beyond the standard Markov dynamics and therefore can illustrate the influence of memory effects of the noisy communication channel on the transmitted information. To quantify the disturbance of quantum states the entanglement fidelity between arbitrary input and output states is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0407167
title: A pseudo-unitary ensemble of random matrices, PT-symmetry and the Riemann Hypothesis
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Sudhir R. Jain
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407167
abstract: An ensemble of 2 x 2 pseudo-Hermitian random matrices is constructed that possesses real eigenvalues with level-spacing distribution exactly as for the Gaussian Unitary Ensemble found by Wigner. By a re-interpretation of Connes' spectral interpretation of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function, we propose to enlarge the scope of search of the Hamiltonian connected with the celebrated Riemann Hypothesis by suggesting that the Hamiltonian could also be PT-symmetric (or pseudo-Hermitian).

id: quant-ph/0407168
title: Local copying of orthogonal entangled quantum states
authors: Fabio Anselmi, Anthony Chefles, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 13 pages. Journal ref. New. J. Phys., Vol. 6, p. 164 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407168
abstract: In classical information theory one can, in principle, produce a perfect copy of any input state. In quantum information theory, the no cloning theorem prohibits exact copying of nonorthogonal states. Moreover, if we wish to copy multiparticle entangled states and can perform only local operations and classical communication (LOCC), then further restrictions apply. We investigate the problem of copying orthogonal, entangled quantum states with an entangled blank state under the restriction to LOCC. Throughout, the subsystems have finite dimension D. We show that if all of the states to be copied are non-maximally entangled, then novel LOCC copying procedures based on entanglement catalysis are possible. We then study in detail the LOCC copying problem where both the blank state and at least one of the states to be copied are maximally entangled. For this to be possible, we find that all the states to be copied must be maximally entangled. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for LOCC copying under these conditions. For two orthogonal, maximally entangled states, we provide the general solution to this condition. We use it to show that for D=2,3, any pair of orthogonal, maximally entangled states can be locally copied using a maximally entangled blank state. However, we also show that for any D which is not prime, one can construct pairs of such states for which this is impossible.

id: quant-ph/0407169
title: Ghost Interference with Optical Parametric Amplifier
authors: Sulakshana Thanvanthri, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407169
abstract: The 'Ghost' interference experiment is analyzed when the source of entangled photons is a multimode Optical Parametric Amplifier(OPA) whose weak limit is the two-photon Spontaneous Parametric Downconversion(SPDC) beam. The visibility of the double-slit pattern is calculated, taking the finite coincidence time window of the photon counting detectors into account. It is found that the coincidence window and the bandwidth of light reaching the detectors play a crucial role in the loss of visibility on coincidence detection, not only in the 'Ghost' interference experiment but in all experiments involving coincidence detection. The differences between the loss of visibility with two-mode and multimode OPA sources is also discussed. PACS: 42.65.Yj, 42.50.Dv, 42.65.Lm

id: quant-ph/0407170
title: Quantum spin tunneling in a soluble quasi-spin model: An angle-based potential description
authors: D. Galetti, C. L. Lima, B. M. Pimentel
comments: 6 figures .eps
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407170
abstract: We propose an approach which allows to construct and use a potential function written in terms of an angle variable to describe interacting spin systems. We show how this can be implemented in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick, here considered a paradigmatic spin model. It is shown how some features of the energy gap can be interpreted in terms of a spin tunneling. A discrete Wigner function is constructed for a symmetric combination of two states of the model and its time evolution is obtained. The physical information extracted from that function reinforces our description of phase oscillations in a potential.

id: quant-ph/0407171
title: Thermodynamic and noise considerations for the detection of microscopic particles in a gas by Photoacoustic Raman spectroscopy
authors: Kunal K. Das, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Kevin Lehmann, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 246 (2005) 551-559
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407171
abstract: We develop a simple thermodynamic model to describe the heat transfer mechanisms and generation of acoustic waves in photoacoustic Raman spectroscopy by small particulate suspensions in a gas. Using Langevin methods to describe the thermal noise we study the signal and noise properties, and from the noise equivalent power we determine the minimum number density of the suspended particles that can be detected. We find that for some relevant cases, as few as 100 particles per cubic meter can be detected.

id: quant-ph/0407172
title: Mixed state sensitivity of several quantum information benchmarks
authors: Nicholas A. Peters, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; corrected typos and expression (17)
journal: PRA v70, 052309, (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407172
abstract: We investigate an imbalance between the sensitivity of the common state measures--fidelity, trace distance, concurrence, tangle, von Neumann entropy and linear entropy--when acted on by a depolarizing channel. Further, in this context we explore two classes of two-qubit entangled mixed states. Specifically, we illustrate a sensitivity imbalance between three of these measures for depolarized (i.e., Werner-state like) nonmaximally entangled and maximally entangled mixed states, noting that the size of the imbalance depends on the state's tangle and linear entropy.

id: quant-ph/0407173
title: Adiabatic pulse propagation in coherent atomic media with the tripod level configuration
authors: I.E. Mazets
comments: revtex, 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407173
abstract: We investigate the problem of propagation of three-component resonant light pulses with adiabatically varying amplitudes through a medium consisting of atoms with the tripod level configuration. By means of both analytic and numerical methods we found the two modes of shape-preserving pulse propagation. The pulse propagation velocity is found to be either equal to the speed of light or significantly slowed down, depending on a particular propagation mode.

id: quant-ph/0407174
title: Implementable Quantum Bit-String Commitment Protocol
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A., 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 71, 012313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407174
abstract: Quantum bit-string commitment[A.Kent, Phys.Rev.Lett., 90, 237901 (2003)] or QBSC is a variant of bit commitment (BC). In this paper, we propose a new QBSC protocol that can be implemented using currently available technology, and prove its security under the same security criteria as discussed by Kent. QBSC is a generalization of BC, but has slightly weaker requirements, and our proposed protocol is not intended to break the no-go theorem of quantum BC.

id: quant-ph/0407175
title: Quantum channel based on correlated twin laser beams
authors: Constantin V. Usenko, Vladyslav C. Usenko
comments: The Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing,Glasgow 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407175
abstract: This work is the development and analysis of the recently proposed quantum cryptographic protocol, based on the use of the two-mode coherently correlated states. The protocol is supplied with the cyrptographic control procedures. The channel error properties and stability against eavesdropping are examined. State detection features are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0407176
title: Realization of Universal Optimal Quantum Machines by Projective Operators and Stochastic Maps
authors: F. Sciarrino, C. Sias, M. Ricci, F. De Martini
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052305 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407176
abstract: Optimal quantum machines can be implemented by linear projective operations. In the present work a general qubit symmetrization theory is presented by investigating the close links to the qubit purification process and to the programmable teleportation of any generic optimal anti-unitary map. In addition, the contextual realization of the N ->M cloning map and of the teleportation of the N->(M-N) universal NOT gate is analyzed by a novel and very general angular momentum theory. An extended set of experimental realizations by state symmetrization linear optical procedures is reported. These include the 1->2 cloning process, the UNOT gate and the quantum tomographic characterization of the optimal partial transpose map of polarization encoded qubits.

id: quant-ph/0407177
title: Geometric quantum gates robust against stochastic control errors
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pagers
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 020301 (2005) (Rapid Commun)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407177
abstract: We analyze a scheme for quantum computation where quantum gates can be continuously changed from standard dynamic gates to purely geometric ones. These gates are enacted by controlling a set of parameters that are subject to unwanted stochastic fluctuations. This kind of noise results in a departure from the ideal case that can be quantified by a gate fidelity. We find that the maximum of this fidelity corresponds to quantum gates with a vanishing dynamical phase.

id: quant-ph/0407178
title: Broadband Relaxation-Optimized Polarization Transfer in Magnetic Resonance
authors: N. Khaneja, J.S. Li, C. Kehlet, B. Luy, S.J. Glaser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407178
abstract: Many applications of magnetic resonance are limited by rapid loss of spin coherence caused by large transverse relaxation rates. In nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) of large proteins, increased relaxation losses lead to poor sensitivity of experiments and increased measurement time. In this paper we develop broadband relaxation optimized pulse sequences (BB-CROP) which approach fundamental limits of coherence transfer efficiency in the presence of very general relaxation mechanisms that include cross-correlated relaxation. These broadband transfer schemes use new techniques of chemical shift refocusing (STAR echoes) that are tailored to specific trajectories of coupled spin evolution. We present simulations and experimental data indicating significant enhancement in the sensitivity of multi-dimensional NMR experiments of large molecules by use of these methods.

id: quant-ph/0407179
title: A two-way algorithm for the entanglement problem
authors: Florian Hulpke, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 5573 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407179
abstract: We propose an algorithm which proves a given bipartite quantum state to be separable in a finite number of steps. Our approach is based on the search for a decomposition via a countable subset of product states, which is dense within all product states. Performing our algorithm simultaneously with the algorithm by Doherty, Parrilo and Spedalieri (which proves a quantum state to be entangled in a finite number of steps) leads to a two-way algorithm that terminates for any input state. Only for a set of arbitrary small measure near the border between separable and entangled states the result is inconclusive.

id: quant-ph/0407180
title: Controlling a group velocity of light by magnetic field
authors: Yu.M.Golubev, T.Yu.Golubeva, Yu.V.Rostovtsev, M.O.Scully
comments: 17 pages, 9 figure
journal: Optics Communications 278 (2007) 350 - 362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407180
abstract: We have shown that quantum interference in a driven quasi-degenerate two-level atomic system can be controlled by an externally applied magnetic field. We demonstrate that the mechanism of optical control is based on quantum interference, which allows one to implement both electromagnetically induced transparency and electromagnetically induced absorption in one atomic system. Dispersion of such the medium allows one to control group velocity of propagation of light pulses be ultra-slow or superluminal via applied magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0407181
title: Loophole-free test of quantum non-locality using high-efficiency homodyne detectors
authors: R. Garcia-Patron, J. Fiurasek, N.J. Cerf
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022105 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407181
abstract: We provide a detailed analysis of the recently proposed setup for a loophole-free test of Bell inequality using conditionally generated non-Gaussian states of light and balanced homodyning. In the proposed scheme, a two-mode squeezed vacuum state is de-gaussified by subtracting a single photon from each mode with the use of an unbalanced beam splitter and a standard low-efficiency single-photon detector. We thoroughly discuss the dependence of the achievable Bell violation on the various relevant experimental parameters such as the detector efficiencies, the electronic noise and the mixedness of the initial Gaussian state. We also consider several alternative schemes involving squeezed states, linear optical elements, conditional photon subtraction and homodyne detection.

id: quant-ph/0407182
title: A new approach to the logarithmic perturbation theory for the spherical anharmonic oscillator
authors: I. V. Dobrovolska, R. S. Tutik
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics A: Math. and Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407182
abstract: The explicit semiclassical treatment of the logarithmic perturbation theory for the bound-state problem for the spherical anharmonic oscillator is developed. Based upon the $\hbar$-expansions and suitable quantization conditions a new procedure for deriving perturbation expansions is offered. Avoiding disadvantages of the standard approach, new handy recursion formulae with the same simple form both for ground and excited states have been obtained. As an example, the perturbation expansions for the energy eigenvalues of the quartic anharmonic oscillator are considered.

id: quant-ph/0407183
title: Classical mechanics is not h=0 limit of quantum mechanics
authors: O.V.Man'ko, V.I.Man'ko
comments: 14 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Res.(Kluwer Pub.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407183
abstract: Both the set of quantum states and the set of classical states described by symplectic tomographic probability distributions (tomograms) are studied. It is shown that the sets have common part but there exist tomograms of classical states which are not admissible in quantum mechanics and vica versa, there exist tomograms of quantum states which are not admissible in classical mechanics. Role of different transformations of reference frames in phase space of classical and quantum systems (scaling and rotation) determining the admissibility of the tomograms as well as the role of quantum uncertainty relations is elucidated. Union of all admissible tomograms of both quantum and classical states is discussed in context of interaction of quantum and classical systems. Negative probabilities in classical mechanics and in quantum mechanics corresponding to the tomograms of classical states and quantum states are compared with properties of nonpositive and nonnegative density operators, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0407184
title: Quantum polarization properties of two-mode energy eigenstates
authors: Anita Sehat, Jonas S?derholm, Gunnar Bj?rk, Pedro Espinoza, Andrei B. Klimov, Luis L. S¨¢nchez-Soto
comments: 6 pages, no figure, references and an extended proof of unit polarization for all odd N added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 033818
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407184
abstract: We show that any pure, two-mode, $N$-photon state with $N$ odd or equal to two can be transformed into an orthogonal state using only linear optics. According to a recently suggested definition of polarization degree, this implies that all such states are fully polarized. This is also found to be true for any pure, two-mode, energy eigenstate belonging to a two-dimensional SU(2) orbit. Complete two- and three-photon bases whose basis states are related by only phase shifts or geometrical rotations are also derived.

id: quant-ph/0407185
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling with decoherence
authors: Esteban Calzetta, Enric Verdaguer
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407185
abstract: The tunneling probability for a system modelling macroscopic quantum tunneling is computed. We consider an open quantum system with one degree of freedom consisting of a particle trapped in a cubic potential interacting with an environment characterized by a dissipative and a diffusion parameter. A representation based on the energy eigenfunctions of the isolated system, i. e. the system uncoupled to the environment, is used to write the dynamical master equation for the reduced Wigner function of the open quantum system. This equation becomes very simple in that representation. The use of the WKB approximation for the eigenfunctions suggests an approximation which allows an analytic computation of the tunneling rate, in this real time formalism, when the system is initially trapped in the false ground state. We find that the decoherence produced by the environment suppresses tunneling in agreement with results in other macroscopic quantum systems with different potentials. We confront our analytical predictions with an experiment where the escape rate from the zero voltage state was measured for a current-biased Josephson junction shunted with a resistor.

id: quant-ph/0407186
title: Spontaneous emission of light from atoms: the model
authors: P. Marecki, N. Szpak
comments: (improved version, minor mistakes removed, accepted by Annalen der Physik)
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 14, 428 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407186
abstract: We investigate (non-relativistic) atomic systems interacting with quantum electromagnetic field (QEF). The resulting model describes spontaneous emission of light from a two-level atom surrounded by various initial states of the QEF. We assume, that the quantum field interacts with the atom via the standard, minimal-coupling Hamiltonian, with the $A^2$ term neglected. We also assume, that there will appear at most single excitations (photons). By conducting the analysis on a general level we allow for an arbitrary initial state of the QEF (which can be for instance: the vacuum, the ground state in a cavity, or the squeezed state). We derive a Volterra-type equation which governs the time evolution of the amplitude of the excited state. The two-point function of the initial state of the QEF, integrated with a combination of atomic wavefunctions, forms the kernel of this equation.

id: quant-ph/0407187
title: The "Forgotten" Process : the emission stimulated by matter waves
authors: Philippe Tourrenc, Marie-Christine Angonin, Peter Wolf
comments: submitted in European Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407187
abstract: In a famous paper where he introduces the A and B coefficients, Einstein considered that atomic decays of excited atoms can be stimulated by light waves. Here we consider that atomic decays can also be stimulated by atomic waves. It is however necessary to change the Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics of thermal equilibrium into Bose-Einstein statistics and to introduce a coefficient C which complements the list of the coefficients introduced by Einstein. Stimulated emission of light can be considered as the first step towards the laser. Similarly, stimulated production of matter waves can be considered as the basic phenomenon for an atom-laser. Most of the results that we obtain here are not new. However, the method that we use remains very close to elementary classical physics and emphasizes the symmetry between electromagnetic and matter waves from various points of view.

id: quant-ph/0407188
title: Quantum theory of a polarization phase-gate in an atomic tripod configuration
authors: S. Rebic, D. Vitali, C. Ottaviani, P. Tombesi, M. Artoni, F. Cataliotti, R. Corbalan
comments: X International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407188
abstract: We present the quantum theory of a polarization phase-gate that can be realized in a sample of ultracold rubidium atoms driven into a tripod configuration. The main advantages of this scheme are in its relative simplicity and inherent symmetry. It is shown that the conditional phase shifts of order $\pi$ can be attained.

id: quant-ph/0407189
title: Four-photon correction in two-photon Bell experiments
authors: Valerio Scarani, Hugues de Riedmatten, Ivan Marcikic, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; published version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 32, 129 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407189
abstract: Correlated photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion are an essential tool for quantum communication, especially suited for long-distance connections. To have a reasonable count rate after all the losses in the propagation and the filters needed to improve the coherence, it is convenient to increase the intensity of the laser that pumps the non-linear crystal. By doing so, however, the importance of the four-photon component of the down-converted field increases, thus degrading the quality of two-photon interferences. In this paper, we present an easy derivation of this nuisance valid for any form of entanglement generated by down-conversion, followed by a full study of the problem for time-bin entanglement. We find that the visibility of two-photon interferences decreases as V=1-2\rho, where \rho is, in usual situations, the probability per pulse of creating a detectable photon pair. In particular, the decrease of V is independent of the coherence of the four-photon term. Thanks to the fact that \rho can be measured independently of V, the experimental verification of our prediction is provided for two different configuration of filters.

id: quant-ph/0407190
title: A Proposal for an Optical Implementation of an Universal Quantum Phase Gate
authors: S. Rebic, D. Vitali, C. Ottaviani, P. Tombesi, M. Artoni, F. Cataliotti, R. Corbalan
comments: Foundations of Quantum Information, Camerino, 16th-19th April 2004, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407190
abstract: Large optical nonlinearities occurring in a coherently prepared atomic system are shown to produce phase shifts of order $\pi$. Such an effect may be observed in ultracold rubidium atoms where it could be feasibly exploited toward the realization of a polarization phase gate.

id: quant-ph/0407191
title: Coherently-assisted incoherent population transfer in a five-level system
authors: S. Rebic, D. Vitali, C. Ottaviani, P. Tombesi
comments: International Wokshop and Seminar on Rydberg Physics, 19 April - 14 May 2004, Dresden, Germany
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407191
abstract: A novel effect of population transfer in a five-level system is analyzed. This population transfer effect is found to be a version of a Raman process, which is facilitated and assisted by coherence effects, acting to close other available decay channels.

id: quant-ph/0407192
title: Bellman equations for optimal feedback control of qubit states
authors: Luc Bouten, Simon Edwards, V P Belavkin
comments: 10 pages, no figures, replaced the simpler model in section 5
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) 151-160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407192
abstract: Using results from quantum filtering theory and methods from classical control theory, we derive an optimal control strategy for an open two-level system (a qubit in interaction with the electromagnetic field) controlled by a laser. The aim is to optimally choose the laser's amplitude and phase in order to drive the system into a desired state. The Bellman equations are obtained for the case of diffusive and counting measurements for vacuum field states. A full exact solution of the optimal control problem is given for a system with simpler, linear, dynamics. These linear dynamics can be obtained physically by considering a two-level atom in a strongly driven, heavily damped, optical cavity.

id: quant-ph/0407193
title: Superdense coding using multipartite states
authors: G. Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, no figures, new results added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407193
abstract: We show that with the fourpartite quantum channel used to teleport an arbitrary two qubit state, we can construct a superdense coding protocol where it is possible to transmit 4 bits of classical information sending only 2 qubits. Alice and Bob initially share a four qubit maximally entangled state and by locally manipulating her two qubits Alice can generate 16 orthogonal maximally entangled states, which are used to encode the message transmitted to Bob. He reads the 4 bit message by a generalized Bell state measurement. A generalized protocol in which 2N bits of classical information is transmitted via N qubits is also presented. We also show that this four(2N-)partite channel is equivalent to two(N) Bell states, which proves that we need two(N) Bell states to teleport a two(N) qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0407194
title: A simple method for the preparation of pseudopure states in NMR quantum information processing
authors: B. M. Fung, Vladimir L. Ermakov
comments: Accepted by J.Chem.Phys., 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407194
abstract: The use of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to carry out quantum information processing (QIP) often requires the preparation, transformation, and detection of pseudopure states. In our previous work, it was shown that the use of pairs of pseudopure states (POPS) as a basis for QIP is very convenient because of the simplicity in experimental execution. It is now further demonstrated that the product of the NMR spectra corresponding to two sets of POPS that share a common pseudopure state has the same peak frequencies as those of the common (single) pseudopure state. Examples of applying two different quantum logic gates to a 5-qubit system are given.

id: quant-ph/0407195
title: The rigged Hilbert space of the algebra of the one-dimensional rectangular barrier potential
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 33 pages in IOP style
journal: J.Phys.A37:8129-8157,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407195
abstract: The rigged Hilbert space of the algebra of the one-dimensional rectangular barrier potential is constructed. The one-dimensional rectangular potential provides another opportunity to show that the rigged Hilbert space fully accounts for Dirac's bra-ket formalism. The analogy between Dirac's formalism and Fourier methods is pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0407196
title: Polarization statistical properties of the emission from the single mode Vertical-Cavity Surface-Emitting Lasers with the equally living laser levels
authors: Yu.M.Golubev, T.Yu.Golubeva, E. Giacobino
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 525 - 532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407196
abstract: The full quantum-statistical theory of the Vertical-Cavity Surface-Emitting Laser (VCSEL) in the form of the Langevin equations is constructed for arbitrary relations between the frequency parameters. The same theoretical treatment as in Ref.[1,2] are used. For detailed analysis the theory is applied for lasers with equally living laser levels and on this basis the analytical expressions for the spectral densities of the Stokes parameter fluctuations are obtained in the explicit dependence on the physical phenomena, including the spin-flip and the optical anisotropy. It is demonstrated the arbitrary distribution of electrons between the sub-levels under pumping does not restrict a possibility to achieve the noise reduction below the quantum limit. Under comparison with phenomenological treatment Ref.[3] it is shown this approach turns out to be not quite satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0407197
title: Tomographic measurements on superconducting qubit states
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 014547 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407197
abstract: We propose an approach to reconstruct any superconducting charge qubit state by using quantum state tomography. This procedure requires a series of measurements on a large enough number of identically prepared copies of the quantum system. The experimental feasibility of this procedure is explained and the time scales for different quantum operations are estimated according to experimentally accessible parameters. Based on the state tomography, we also investigate the possibility of the process tomography.

id: quant-ph/0407198
title: Information and The Brukner-Zeilinger Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics: A Critical Investigation
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Feryal Safinejad, Farnoush Naqsh
comments: 20 pages, two figures, last version. Section 4 is replaced by a new argument. Other sections are improved. An appendix and new references are added
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters, Vol. 19, No. 1, February 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407198
abstract: In Brukner and Zeilinger's interpretation of quantum mechanics, information is introduced as the most fundamental notion and the finiteness of information is considered as an essential feature of quantum systems. They also define a new measure of information which is inherently different from the Shannon information and try to show that the latter is not useful in defining the information content in a quantum object. Here, we show that there are serious problems in their approach which make their efforts unsatisfactory. The finiteness of information does not explain how objective results appear in experiments and what an instantaneous change in the so-called information vector (or catalog of knowledge) really means during the measurement. On the other hand, Brukner and Zeilinger's definition of a new measure of information may lose its significance, when the spin measurement of an elementary system is treated realistically. Hence, the sum of the individual measures of information may not be a conserved value in real experiments.

id: quant-ph/0407199
title: Entanglement and Bell Inequalities
authors: M.Kupczynski
comments: 10 pages, minor changes, typos, references added
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research,26,514 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407199
abstract: The entangled quantum states play a key role in quantum information. The association of the quantum state vector with each individual physical system in an attributive way is a source of many false paradoxes and inconsistencies. The paradoxes are avoided if the purely statistical interpretation (SI) of the quantum state vector is adopted. According the SI the quantum theory (QT) does not provide any deterministic prediction for any individual experimental result obtained for a free physical system, for a trapped ion or for a quantum dot. In this article it is shown that if the SI is used then, contrary to the general belief, the QT does not predict for the ideal spin singlet state perfect anti-correlation of the coincidence coumts for the distant detectors. Subsequently the various proofs of the Bell's theorem are reanalyzed and in particular the importance and the implications of the use of the unique probability space in these proofs are elucidated. The use of the unique probability space is shown to be equivalent to the use of the joint probability distributions for the non commuting observables. The experimental violation of the Bell's inequalities proves that the naive realistic particle like spatio- temporal description of the various quantum mechanical experiments is impossible. Of course it does not give any argument for the action at the distance and it does not provide the proof of the completeness of the QM. The fact that the quantum state vector is not an attribute of a single quantum system and that the quantum observables are contextual has to be taken properly into account in any implementation of the quantum computing device.

id: quant-ph/0407200
title: Assisted Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Sudhir Kumar Singh, R. Srikanth
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407200
abstract: A restriction on quantum secret sharing (QSS) that comes from the no-cloning theorem is that any pair of authorized sets in an access structure should overlap. From the viewpoint of application, this places an unnatural constraint on secret sharing. We present a generalization, called assisted QSS (AQSS), where access structures without pairwise overlap of authorized sets is permissible, provided some shares are withheld by the share dealer. We show that no more than $\lambda-1$ withheld shares are required, where $\lambda$ is the minimum number of {\em partially linked classes} among the authorized sets for the QSS. This is useful in QSS schemes where the share dealer is honest by definition and is equivalent to a secret reconstructor. Our result means that such applications of QSS need not be thwarted by the no-cloning theorem.

id: quant-ph/0407201
title: Entangled Two-Photon Wave Packet in a Dispersive Medium
authors: Alejandra Valencia, Maria V. Chekhova, Alexei Trifonov, Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev. Lett. vol:88, Pag: 183601 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407201
abstract: We report an experimental study of group-velocity dispersion effect on an entangled two-photon wavepacket, generated via spontaneous parametric down-conversion and propagating through a dispersive medium. Even in the case of using CW laser beam for pump, the biphoton wavepacket and the second-order correlation function spread significantly. The study and understanding of this phenomenon is of great importance for quantum information applications, such as quantum communication and distant clock synchronization.

id: quant-ph/0407202
title: Coherence-preserving trap architecture for long-term control of giant Rydberg atoms
authors: Philippe Hyafil, John Mozley, Aurelien Perrin, Julien Tailleur, Gilles Nogues, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 93 (2004) 103001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407202
abstract: We present a way to trap a single Rydberg atom, make it long-lived and preserve an internal coherence over time scales reaching into the minute range. We propose to trap using carefully designed electric fields, to inhibit the spontaneous emission in a non resonant conducting structure and to maintain the internal coherence through a tailoring of the atomic energies using an external microwave field. We thoroughly identify and account for many causes of imperfection in order to verify at each step the realism of our proposal.

id: quant-ph/0407203
title: Affine maps of density matrices
authors: Thomas F. Jordan
comments: 4 pages, title changed, sentence added, reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 034101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407203
abstract: For quantum systems described by finite matrices, linear and affine maps of matrices are shown to provide equivalent descriptions of evolution of density matrices for a subsystem caused by unitary Hamiltonian evolution in a larger system; an affine map can be replaced by a linear map, and a linear map can be replaced by an affine map. There may be significant advantage in using an affine map. The linear map is generally not completely positive, but the linear part of an equivalent affine map can be chosen to be completely positive and related in the simplest possible way to the unitary Hamiltonian evolution in the larger system.

id: quant-ph/0407204
title: Distant Clock Synchronization Using Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Alejandra Valencia, Giuliano Scarcelli, Yanhua Shih
comments: To appear in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Applied Physycs Letters 85, 2655 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407204
abstract: We report a proof-of-principle experiment on distant clock synchronization. Besides the achievement of picosecond resolution at 3 kilometer distance, this experiment demonstrated a novel concept for high accuracy non-local timing and positioning based on the quantum feature of entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0407205
title: Distinguishing between optical coherent states with imperfect detection
authors: JM Geremia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407205
abstract: Several proposed techniques for distinguishing between optical coherent states are analyzed under a physically realistic model of photodetection. Quantum error probabilities are derived for the Kennedy receiver, the Dolinar receiver and the unitary rotation scheme proposed by Sasaki and Hirota for sub-unity detector efficiency. Monte carlo simulations are performed to assess the effects of detector dark counts, dead time, signal processing bandwidth and phase noise in the communication channel. The feedback strategy employed by the Dolinar receiver is found to achieve the Helstrom bound for sub-unity detection efficiency and to provide robustness to these other detector imperfections making it more attractive for laboratory implementation than previously believed.

id: quant-ph/0407206
title: Entanglement Sharing and Decoherence in the Spin-Bath
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Andrew P. Hines, Ross H. McKenzie, G.J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure v2: 6 pages 2 figures, additional example and references
journal: Phys. Rev A 71, 052321 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407206
abstract: The monogamous nature of entanglement has been illustrated by the derivation of entanglement sharing inequalities - bounds on the amount of entanglement that can be shared amongst the various parts of a multipartite system. Motivated by recent studies of decoherence, we demonstrate an interesting manifestation of this phenomena that arises in system-environment models where there exists interactions between the modes or subsystems of the environment. We investigate this phenomena in the spin-bath environment, constructing an entanglement sharing inequality bounding the entanglement between a central spin and the environment in terms of the pairwise entanglement between individual bath spins. The relation of this result to decoherence will be illustrated using simplified system-bath models of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0407207
title: New Ways to Solve the Schroedinger Equation
authors: R. Friedberg, T. D. Lee
comments: 72 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407207
abstract: We discuss a new approach to solve the low lying states of the Schroedinger equation. For a fairly large class of problems, this new approach leads to convergent iterative solutions, in contrast to perturbative series expansions. These convergent solutions include the long standing difficult problem of a quartic potential with either symmetric or asymmetric minima.

id: quant-ph/0407208
title: Possibility of obtaining a non-relativistic proof of the spin-statistics theorem in the Galilean frame
authors: Gabriel D. Puccini, Hector Vucetich
comments: 7 pages, 1 Postscript figure; v2: added a new section, enlarged introduction and conclusion; v3: added new comments and corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407208
abstract: Here we explore the possibility to obtain a non-relativistic proof of the spin-statistics theorem. First, we examine the structure of axioms and theorems involved in a relativistic Schwinger-like proof of the spin-statistics relation. Second, starting from this structure we identify the relativistic assumptions. Last, we reformulate these assumptions in order to obtain a Galilean proof. We conclude that the spin-statistics theorem cannot be deduced into the framework of Galilean quantum field theories for three space dimensions because two of the assumptions needed to prove the theorem are incompatible. We analyze, however, the conditions under which a non-relativist proof could still be deduced.

id: quant-ph/0407209
title: Optimum Small Optical Beam Displacement Measurement
authors: Magnus T.L. Hsu, Vincent Delaubert, Ping Koy Lam, Warwick Bowen
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 495-501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407209
abstract: We derive the quantum noise limit for the optical beam displacement of a TEM00 mode. Using a multimodal analysis, we show that the conventional split detection scheme for measuring beam displacement is non-optimal with 80% efficiency. We propose a new displacement measurement scheme that is optimal for small beam displacement. This scheme utilises a homodyne detection setup that has a TEM10 mode local oscillator. We show that although the quantum noise limit to displacement measurement can be surpassed using squeezed light in appropriate spatial modes for both schemes, the TEM10 homodyning scheme out-performs split detection for all values of squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0407210
title: Securing QKD Links in the Full Hilbert Space
authors: Deborah J. Jackson, George M. Hockney
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX, Equation 6 corrected, nomenclature in equations 14-17, and eqn. 19 modified for clarity. Equation 18 added for clarity. Conclusions expanded for clarity and reference 26 added. Some minor grammatical corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407210
abstract: Many quantum key distribution analyses examine the link security in a subset of the full Hilbert space that is available to describe the system. In reality, information about the photon state can be embedded in correlations between the polarization space and other dimensions of the Hilbert space in such a way that Eve can determine the polarization of a photon without affecting it. This paper uses the concept of suitability to quantify the available information for Eve, and then describe a systematic way to calculate and measure these possibilities.

id: quant-ph/0407211
title: Detection of sub-shot-noise spatial correlation in high-gain parametric down-conversion
authors: O. Jedrkiewicz, Y.-K. Jiang, E. Brambilla, A. Gatti, M. Bache, L. A. Lugiato, P. di Trapani
comments: 4,2 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407211
abstract: Using a 1GW-1ps pump laser pulse in high gain parametric down-conversion allows us to detect sub-shot-noise spatial quantum correlation with up to one hundred photoelectrons per mode, by means of a high efficiency CCD. The statistics is performed in single-shot over independent spatial replica of the system. The paper highlights the evidence of quantum correlation between symmetrical signal and idler spatial areas in the far field, in the high gain regime. In accordance with the predictions of numerical calculations the observed transition from the quantum to the classical regime is interpreted as a consequence of the narrowing of the down-converted beams in the very high gain regime.

id: quant-ph/0407212
title: Perfect State Transfer, Effective Gates and Entanglement Generation in Engineered Bosonic and Fermionic Networks
authors: Man-Hong Yung, Sougato Bose
comments: RevTeX4, 6 pages, 1 figure; replaced with a more general example and clarified the sufficient and necessary condition for perfect state transfer
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407212
abstract: We show how to achieve perfect quantum state transfer and construct effective two-qubit gates between distant sites in engineered bosonic and fermionic networks. The Hamiltonian for the system can be determined by choosing an eigenvalue spectrum satisfying a certain condition, which is shown to be both sufficient and necessary in mirror-symmetrical networks. The natures of the effective two-qubit gates depend on the exchange symmetry for fermions and bosons. For fermionic networks, the gates are entangling (and thus universal for quantum computation). For bosonic networks, though the gates are not entangling, they allow two-way simultaneous communications. Protocols of entanglement generation in both bosonic and fermionic engineered networks are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0407213
title: PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics: A Precise and Consistent Formulation
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 9 pages, to appear in Czech. J. Phys
journal: Czech J. Phys. 54 (2004) 1125-1133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407213
abstract: The physical condition that the expectation values of physical observables are real quantities is used to give a precise formulation of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. A mathematically rigorous proof is given to establish the physical equivalence of PT-symmetric and conventional quantum mechanics. The results reported in this paper apply to arbitrary PT-symmetric Hamiltonians with a real and discrete spectrum. They hold regardless of whether the boundary conditions defining the spectrum of the Hamiltonian are given on the real line or a complex contour.

id: quant-ph/0407214
title: Criteria of quantum correlation in the measurement of continuous variables in optics
authors: Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: Submitted to the special issue of Laser Physics in honour of Prof. Herbert Walther
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407214
abstract: The purpose of this short tutorial paper is to review various criteria that have been used to characterize the quantum character of correlations in optical systems, such as "gemellity", QND correlation, intrication, EPR correlation and Bell correlation, to discuss and compare them. This discussion, restricted to the case of measurements of continuous optical variables, includes also an extension of known criteria for "twin beams" to the case of imbalanced correlations.

id: quant-ph/0407215
title: QC Paulinesia
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 45 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 2 .eps) A nicer pdf version, with better figure resolution than the arxiv pdf, can be found at www.ar-tiste.com/PaulinesiaVer1.pdf
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407215
abstract: My goal in producing this document was to create a collection of qubit circuit identities that are used in Quantum Computing. Mathematicians and Physicists may consider it as being analogous to a Table of Integrals or a Mathematical Handbook such as Gradshteyn-Ryzhik or Abramowitz-Stegun. Computer Programmers may think of it as a scrapbook of code snippets that are elegant, instructive, well documented, and useful. Electronics experts may view it as a compendium of circuits for performing a large assortment of tasks. The vast majority of the circuit identities collected in this work were not discovered for the first time by me, and I take no credit for discovering them. In producing this document, I am acting as a collector, not as a discoverer.

id: quant-ph/0407216
title: Conservation and entanglement of Hermite-Gaussian modes in parametric down-conversion
authors: S. P. Walborn, S. P¨¢dua, C. H. Monken
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Corrections made as per referee comments, references updated. Submitted PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407216
abstract: We show that the transfer of the angular spectrum of the pump beam to the two-photon state in spontaneous parametric down-conversion enables the generation of entangled Hermite-Gaussian modes. We derive an analytical expression for the two-photon state in terms of these modes and show that there are restrictions on both the parity and order of the down-converted Hermite-Gaussian fields. Using these results, we show that the two-photon state is indeed entangled in Hermite-Gaussian modes. We propose experimental methods of creating maximally-entangled Bell states and non-maximally entangled pure states of first order Hermite-Gaussian modes.

id: quant-ph/0407217
title: Quantum search for multiple items using parallel queries
authors: Lov K. Grover, Jaikumar Radhakrishnan
comments: Six pages; no figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407217
abstract: In the quantum database search problem we are required to search for an item in a database. In this paper, we consider a generalization of this problem, where we are provided d identical copes of a database each with N items which we can query in parallel. Then, given k items, we are required to determine the locations where these items are stored. We show that any quantum algorithm for this task must perform Omega(sqrt{Nk/d min{d,k}}) parallel queries. We also design an algorithm whose performance comes within a factor O(log d) of this lower bound.

id: quant-ph/0407218
title: Field squeeze operators in optical cavities with atomic ensembles
authors: R. Guzm¨¢n, J. C. Retamal, E. Solano, N. Zagury
comments: Four pages and one figure. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 010502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407218
abstract: We propose a method of generating unitarily single and two-mode field squeezing in an optical cavity with an atomic cloud. Through a suitable laser system, we are able to engineer a squeeze field operator decoupled from the atomic degrees of freedom, yielding a large squeeze parameter that is scaled up by the number of atoms, and realizing degenerate and non-degenerate parametric amplification. By means of the input-output theory we show that ideal squeezed states and perfect squeezing could be approached at the output. The scheme is robust to decoherence processes.

id: quant-ph/0407219
title: Quantum teleportation of an arbitrary two qubit state and its relation to multipartite entanglement
authors: G. Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407219
abstract: We explicitly show a protocol in which an arbitrary two qubit a|00> + b|01> + c|10> + d|11> is faithfully and deterministically teleported from Alice to Bob. We construct the 16 orthogonal generalized Bell states which can be used to teleport the two qubits. The local operations Bob must perform on his qubits in order to recover the teleported state is also constructed. They are restricted only to single qubit gates. This means that a CNOT gate is not necessary to complete the protocol. A generalization where N qubits is teleported is also shown. We define a generalized magic basis, which possesses interesting properties. These properties help us to suggest a generalized concurrence from which we construct a new measure of entanglement that has a clear physical interpretation: A multipartite state has maximum entanglement if it is a genuine quantum teleportation channel.

id: quant-ph/0407220
title: Quantum computing on long-lived donor states of Li in Si
authors: V. N. Smelyanskiy, A. G. Petukhov, V. V. Osipov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407220
abstract: We predict a gigantically long lifetime of the first excited state of an interstitial lithium donor in silicon. The nature of this effect roots in the anomalous level structure of the {\em 1s} Li manifold under external stress. Namely, the coupling between the lowest two states of the opposite parity is very weak and occurs via intervalley phonon transitions only. We propose to use these states under the controlled ac and dc stress to process quantum information. We find an unusual form of the elastic-dipole interaction between %the electronic transitions in different donors. This interaction scales with the inter-donor distance $R$ as $R^{-3}$ or $R^{-5}$ for the transitions between the states of the same or opposite parity, respectively. The long-range $R^{-3}$ interaction provides a high fidelity mechanism for 2-qubit operations.

id: quant-ph/0407221
title: Quantum Pseudo-Telepathy
authors: Gilles Brassard, Anne Broadbent, Alain Tapp
comments: Minor modification in section 2 to give proper credit for the impossible colouring game. References corrected and updated
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 35, Issue 11, Nov 2005, Pages 1877 - 1907
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407221
abstract: Quantum information processing is at the crossroads of physics, mathematics and computer science. It is concerned with that we can and cannot do with quantum information that goes beyond the abilities of classical information processing devices. Communication complexity is an area of classical computer science that aims at quantifying the amount of communication necessary to solve distributed computational problems. Quantum communication complexity uses quantum mechanics to reduce the amount of communication that would be classically required. Pseudo-telepathy is a surprising application of quantum information processing to communication complexity. Thanks to entanglement, perhaps the most nonclassical manifestation of quantum mechanics, two or more quantum players can accomplish a distributed task with no need for communication whatsoever, which would be an impossible feat for classical players. After a detailed overview of the principle and purpose of pseudo-telepathy, we present a survey of recent and no-so-recent work on the subject. In particular, we describe and analyse all the pseudo-telepathy games currently known to the authors.

id: quant-ph/0407222
title: The language of Einstein spoken by optical instruments
authors: Sibel Baskal, Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 8 pages, presented at the 10th International Conference on Quantum Optics (Minsk, Belarus, May-June 2004), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407222
abstract: Einstein had to learn the mathematics of Lorentz transformations in order to complete his covariant formulation of Maxwell's equations. The mathematics of Lorentz transformations, called the Lorentz group, continues playing its important role in optical sciences. It is the basic mathematical language for coherent and squeezed states. It is noted that the six-parameter Lorentz group can be represented by two-by-two matrices. Since the beam transfer matrices in ray optics is largely based on two-by-two matrices or $ABCD$ matrices, the Lorentz group is bound to be the basic language for ray optics, including polarization optics, interferometers, lens optics, multilayer optics, and the Poincar\'e sphere. Because the group of Lorentz transformations and ray optics are based on the same two-by-two matrix formalism, ray optics can perform mathematical operations which correspond to transformations in special relativity. It is shown, in particular, that one-lens optics provides a mathematical basis for unifying the internal space-time symmetries of massive and massless particles in the Lorentz-covariant world.

id: quant-ph/0407223
title: Criteria for Exact Qudit Universality
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Dianne P. O'Leary, Stephen S. Bullock
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 71, 052318 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407223
abstract: We describe criteria for implementation of quantum computation in qudits. A qudit is a d-dimensional system whose Hilbert space is spanned by states |0>, |1>,... |d-1>. An important earlier work of Mathukrishnan and Stroud [1] describes how to exactly simulate an arbitrary unitary on multiple qudits using a 2d-1 parameter family of single qudit and two qudit gates. Their technique is based on the spectral decomposition of unitaries. Here we generalize this argument to show that exact universality follows given a discrete set of single qudit Hamiltonians and one two-qudit Hamiltonian. The technique is related to the QR-matrix decomposition of numerical linear algebra. We consider a generic physical system in which the single qudit Hamiltonians are a small collection of H_{jk}^x=\hbar\Omega (|k><j|+|j><k|) and H_{jk}^y =\hbar\Omega (i|k><j|-i|j><k|). A coupling graph results taking nodes 0,... d-1 and edges j<->k iff H_{jk}^{x,y} are allowed Hamiltonians. One qudit exact universality follows iff this graph is connected, and complete universality results if the two-qudit Hamiltonian H=-\hbar\Omega |d-1,d-1><d-1,d-1| is also allowed. We discuss implementation in the eight dimensional ground electronic states of ^{87}Rb and construct an optimal gate sequence using Raman laser pulses.

id: quant-ph/0407224
title: Teleportation Topology
authors: Louis H. Kauffman
comments: LaTeX document, 16 pages, 8 figures, Talk delivered at the Xth International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407224
abstract: We discuss the structure of teleportation. By associating matrices to the preparation and measurement states, we show that for a unitary transformation M there is a full teleportation procedure for obtaining M|S> from a given state |S>. The key to this construction is a diagrammatic intepretation of matrix multiplication that applies equally well to a topological composition of a maximum and a minimum that underlies the structure of the teleportation. This paper is a preliminary report on joint work with H. Carteret and S. Lomonaco.

id: quant-ph/0407225
title: Entanglement of the Hermite-Gaussian modes states of photons
authors: Xi-Feng Ren, Guo-Ping Guo, Jian Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett.A, vol. 341/1-4, p. 81-86, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407225
abstract: We found that the Hermit-Gaussian(HG) modes of the down converted beams from the spontaneous parametric down conversion are quasi-conserved and the generated photon pairs are HG modes entangled for some special cases. This is valuable for either the investigation of fundament properties of multi-dimensional entanglement or quantum information applications.

id: quant-ph/0407226
title: Entanglement and Quantum Phase Transition Revisited
authors: Min-Fong Yang
comments: RevTeX 4, 4 pages, 1 EPS figures. some modifications in the text. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 030302(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407226
abstract: We show that, for an exactly solvable quantum spin model, a discontinuity in the first derivative of the ground state concurrence appears in the absence of quantum phase transition. It is opposed to the popular belief that the non-analyticity property of entanglement (ground state concurrence) can be used to determine quantum phase transitions. We further point out that the analyticity property of the ground state concurrence in general can be more intricate than that of the ground state energy. Thus there is no one-to-one correspondence between quantum phase transitions and the non-analyticity property of the concurrence. Moreover, we show that the von Neumann entropy, as another measure of entanglement, can not reveal quantum phase transition in the present model. Therefore, in order to link with quantum phase transitions, some other measures of entanglement are needed.

id: quant-ph/0407227
title: Compatibility of subsystem states
authors: Paul Butterley, Anthony Sudbery, Jason Szulc
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX. In memoriam Asher Peres. Substantial revision: one theorem removed, one author added
journal: Found. Phys. 36, 83-101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407227
abstract: We examine the possible states of subsystems of a system of bits or qubits. In the classical case (bits), this means the possible marginal distributions of a probability distribution on a finite number of binary variables; we give necessary and sufficient conditions for a set of probability distributions on all proper subsets of the variables to be the marginals of a single distribution on the full set. In the quantum case (qubits), we consider mixed states of subsets of a set of qubits; in the case of three qubits, we find quantum Bell inequalities -- necessary conditions for a set of two-qubit states to be the reduced states of a single mixed state of three qubits. We conjecture that these conditions are also sufficient.

id: quant-ph/0407228
title: Entanglement and Quantum Phase Transition in Low Dimensional Spin Systems
authors: Yan Chen, Paolo Zanardi, Z. D. Wang, F. C. Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 8, 97 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407228
abstract: Entanglement of the ground states in $XXZ$ and dimerized Heisenberg spin chains as well as in a two-leg spin ladder is analyzed by using the spin-spin concurrence and the entanglement entropy between a selected sublattice of spins and the rest of the system. In particular, we reveal that quantum phase transition points/boundaries may be identified based on the analysis on the local extreme of this entanglement entropy, which is illustrated to be superior over the concurrence scenario and may enable us to explore quantum phase transitions in many other systems including higher dimensional ones.

id: quant-ph/0407229
title: Single-atom detection using whispering gallery modes of microdisk resonators
authors: Michael Rosenblit, Peter Horak, Steve Helsby, Ron Folman
comments: 10 pages, 10 fugures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053808 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407229
abstract: We investigate the possibility of using dielectric microdisk resonators for the optical detection of single atoms trapped and cooled in magnetic microtraps near the surface of a substrate. The bound and evanescent fields of optical whispering gallery modes are calculated and the coupling to straight waveguides is investigated using finite-difference time domain solutions of Maxwell's equations. Results are compared with semi-analytical solutions based on coupled mode theory. We discuss atom detection efficiencies and the feasibility of non-destructive measurements in such a system depending on key parameters such as disk size, disk-waveguide coupling, and scattering losses.

id: quant-ph/0407230
title: Entanglement in a Two-Qubit Ising Model Under a Site-Dependent External Magnetic Field
authors: Andreas F. Terzis, Emmanuel Paspalakis
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407230
abstract: We investigate the ground state and the thermal entanglement in the two-qubit Ising model interacting with a site-dependent magnetic field. The degree of entanglement is measured by calculating the concurrence. For zero temperature and for certain direction of the applied magnetic field, the quantum phase transition observed under a uniform external magnetic field disappears once a very small non-uniformity is introduced. Furthermore, we have shown analytically and confirmed numerically that once the direction of one of the magnetic field is along the Ising axis then no entangled states can be produced, independently of the degree of non-uniformity of the magnetic fields on each site.

id: quant-ph/0407231
title: Off-diagonal geometric phase in composite systems
authors: X. X. Yi, J. L. Chang
comments: 
journal: PRA 70,012108(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407231
abstract: The effect due to the inter-subsystem coupling on the off-diagonal geometric phase in a composite system is investigated. We analyze the case where the system undergo an adiabatic evolution. Two coupled qubits driven by time-dependent external magnetic fields are presented as an example, the off-diagonal geometric phase as well as the adiabatic condition are examined and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0407232
title: Rotational invariance as an additional constraint on local realism
authors: Koji Nagata, Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Wiesniak, Marek Zukowski
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 230403 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407232
abstract: Rotational invariance of physical laws is a generally accepted principle. We show that it leads to an additional external constraint on local realistic models of physical phenomena involving measurements of multiparticle spin 1/2 correlations. This new constraint rules out such models even in some situations in which standard Bell inequalities allow for explicit construction of such models. The whole analysis is performed without any additional assumptions on the form of local realistic models.

id: quant-ph/0407233
title: Atom-photon, atom-atom and photon-photon entanglement preparation via fractional adiabatic passage
authors: M. Amniat-Talab, S. Guerin, N. Sangouard, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. We have changed the title, the abstract and the text. The references have been updated. (Accepted by Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A., 71, 023805(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407233
abstract: We propose a relatively robust scheme to generate maximally entangled states of (i) an atom and a cavity photon, (ii) two atoms in their ground states, and (iii) two photons in two spatially separate high-Q cavities. It is based on the interaction via fractional adiabatic passage of a three-level atom traveling through a cavity mode and a laser beam. The presence of optical phases is emphasized.

id: quant-ph/0407234
title: Physical Bounds to the Entropy-Depolarization Relation in Random Light Scattering
authors: A. Aiello, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407234
abstract: We present a theoretical study of multi-mode scattering of light by optically random media, using the Mueller-Stokes formalism which permits to encode all the polarization properties of the scattering medium in a real $4 \times 4$ matrix. From this matrix two relevant parameters can be extracted: the depolarizing power $D_M$ and the polarization entropy $E_M$ of the scattering medium. By studying the relation between $E_M$ and $D_M$, we find that {\em all} scattering media must satisfy some {\em universal} constraints. These constraints apply to both classical and quantum scattering processes. The results obtained here may be especially relevant for quantum communication applications, where depolarization is synonymous with decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0407235
title: Anharmonic Oscillator Equations:Treatment Parallel to Mathieu Equation
authors: Jiu--Qing Liang, H.J.W. Mueller--Kirsten
comments: Revised, minor corrections, calculations shifted to appendices, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407235
abstract: The treatment of anharmonic oscillators (including double-wells) by instanton methods is wellknown. The alternative differential equation method is not so wellknown. Here we reformulate the latter completely parallel to the strong coupling case of the cosine potential and Mathieu equation for which extensive literature and monographs exist.

id: quant-ph/0407236
title: Model for Entangled States with Spin-Spin Interaction
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Jeeva Anandan, G. Jordan Maclay, Jun Suzuki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052114 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407236
abstract: A system consisting of two neutral spin 1/2 particles is analyzed for two magnetic field perturbations: 1) an inhomogeneous magnetic field over all space, and 2) external fields over a half space containing only one of the particles. The field is chosen to point from one particle to the other, which results in essentially a one-dimensional problem. A number of interesting features are revealed for the first case: the singlet, which has zero potential energy in the unperturbed case, remains unstable in the perturbing field. The spin zero component of the triplet evolves into a bound state with a double well potential, with the possibility of tunneling. Superposition states can be constructed which oscillate between entangled and unentangled states. For the second case, we show that changes in the magnetic field around one particle affect measurements of the spin of the entangled particle not in the magnetic field nonlocally. By using protective measurements, we show it is possible in principle to establish a nonlocal interaction using the two particles, provided the dipole-dipole potential energy does not vanish and is comparable to the potential energy of the particle in the external field.

id: quant-ph/0407237
title: Quantum noise and mixedness of a pumped dissipative non-linear oscillator
authors: Jiri Bajer, Adam Miranowicz, Mateusz Andrzejewski
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Optics B 6, 387-395 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407237
abstract: Evolutions of quantum noise, characterized by quadrature squeezing parameter and Fano factor, and of mixedness, quantified by quantum von Neumann and linear entropies, of a pumped dissipative non-linear oscillator are studied. The model can describe a signal mode interacting with a thermal reservoir in a parametrically pumped cavity with a Kerr non-linearity. It is discussed that the initial pure states, including coherent states, Fock states, and finite superpositions of coherent states evolve into the same steady mixed state as verified by the quantum relative entropy and the Bures metric. It is shown analytically and verified numerically that the steady state can be well approximated by a nonclassical Gaussian state exhibiting quadrature squeezing and sub-Poissonian statistics for the cold thermal reservoir. A rapid increase is found in the mixedness, especially for the initial Fock states and superpositions of coherent states, during a very short time interval, and then for longer evolution times a decrease in the mixedness to the same, for all the initial states, and relatively low value of the nonclassical Gaussian state.

id: quant-ph/0407238
title: Manipulation and storage of optical field and atomic ensemble quantum states
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Alberto Bramati, Michel Pinard, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: Contribution to Laser Physics special issue in honor of pr Herbert Walther 70's birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407238
abstract: We study how to efficiently manipulate and store quantum information between optical fields and atomic ensembles. We show how various non-dissipative transfer schemes can be used to transfer and store quantum states such as squeezed vacuum states or entangled states into the long-lived ground state spins of atomic ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0407239
title: Quantum chaos in elementary quantum mechanics
authors: Yu. Dabaghian
comments: 29 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407239
abstract: We introduce an analytical solution to the one of the most familiar problems from the elementary quantum mechanics textbooks. The following discussion provides simple illustrations to a number of general concepts of quantum chaology, along with some recent developments in the field and a historical perspective on the subject.

id: quant-ph/0407240
title: Ghost Imaging with Blackbody Radiation
authors: Yangjian Cai, Shiyao Zhu
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407240
abstract: We present a theoretical study of ghost imaging by using blackbody radiation source. A Gaussian thin lens equation for the ghost imaging, which depends on both paths, is derived. The dependences of the visibility and quality of the image on the transverse size and temperature of the blackbody are studied. The main differences between the ghost imaging by using the blackbody radiation and by using the entangled photon pairs are image-forming equation, and the visibility and quality of the image

id: quant-ph/0407241
title: Scalable fault-tolerant quantum computation in DFS blocks
authors: Zheng-Wei Zhou, Bo Yu, Xingxiang Zhou, Marc J. Feldman, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 papges, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 010501(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407241
abstract: We investigate how to concatenate different decoherence-free subspaces (DFSs) to realize scalable universal fault-tolerant quantum computation. Based on tunable $XXZ$ interactions, we present an architecture for scalable quantum computers which can fault-tolerantly perform universal quantum computation by manipulating only single type of parameter. By using the concept of interaction-free subspaces we eliminate the need to tune the couplings between logical qubits, which further reduces the technical difficulties for implementing quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0407242
title: Quantum Superposition Principle and Geometry
authors: Alejandro Corichi
comments: 10 pages, no figures. References added. V3 discussion expanded and new results added, 14 pages. Dedicated to Michael P. Ryan on the occasion of his sixtieth bithday
journal: Gen. Rel. Grav. 38, 677-687 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407242
abstract: If one takes seriously the postulate of quantum mechanics in which physical states are rays in the standard Hilbert space of the theory, one is naturally lead to a geometric formulation of the theory. Within this formulation of quantum mechanics, the resulting description is very elegant from the geometrical viewpoint, since it allows to cast the main postulates of the theory in terms of two geometric structures, namely a symplectic structure and a Riemannian metric. However, the usual superposition principle of quantum mechanics is not naturally incorporated, since the quantum state space is non-linear. In this note we offer some steps to incorporate the superposition principle within the geometric description. In this respect, we argue that it is necessary to make the distinction between a 'projective superposition principle' and a 'decomposition principle' that extend the standard superposition principle. We illustrate our proposal with two very well known examples, namely the spin 1/2 system and the two slit experiment, where the distinction is clear from the physical perspective. We show that the two principles have also a different mathematical origin within the geometrical formulation of the theory.

id: quant-ph/0407243
title: Analytical results for entanglement in the five-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: XiaoGuang Wang
comments: Four pages, three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407243
abstract: We solve the eigenvalue problem of the five-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg model, without use of Bethe's Ansatz, and give analytical results for entanglement and mixedness of two nearest-neighbor qubits. The entanglement takes its maximum at Delta= (Delta>1) for the case of zero (finite) temperature with Delta being the anisotropic parameter. In contrast, the mixedness takes its minimum at Delta=1 (Delta>1) for the case of zero (finite) temperature.

id: quant-ph/0407244
title: Antilinearity in Bipartite Quantum Systems and Imperfect Quantum Teleportation
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: Conference: Quantum Probability and Infinite-dimensional Analysis
journal: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Volume 15, 255-268, World Scientific 2003 (W. Freudenberg, ed.)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407244
abstract: Antilinearity is quite natural in bipartite quantum systems. There is a one-to-one correspondence between vectors and certain antilinear maps, here called EPR-maps. Some of their properties and uses, including the factorization of quantum teleportation maps, is explained. There is an elementary link to twisted Kronecker products and to the modular objects of Tomita and Takesaki.

id: quant-ph/0407245
title: Theory of decoherence in a matter wave Talbot-Lau interferometer
authors: Klaus Hornberger, John E. Sipe, Markus Arndt
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures (minor corrections; now in two-column format)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053608 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407245
abstract: We present a theoretical framework to describe the effects of decoherence on matter waves in Talbot-Lau interferometry. Using a Wigner description of the stationary beam the loss of interference contrast can be calculated in closed form. The formulation includes both the decohering coupling to the environment and the coherent interaction with the grating walls. It facilitates the quantitative distinction of genuine quantum interference from the expectations of classical mechanics. We provide realistic microscopic descriptions of the experimentally relevant interactions in terms of the bulk properties of the particles and show that the treatment is equivalent to solving the corresponding master equation in paraxial approximation.

id: quant-ph/0407246
title: Quantum Noise in Multipixel Image Processing
authors: Nicolas Treps, Vincent Delaubert, Agnes Maitre, Jean-Michel Courty, Claude Fabre
comments: 8 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407246
abstract: We consider the general problem of the quantum noise in a multipixel measurement of an optical image. We first give a precise criterium in order to characterize intrinsic single mode and multimode light. Then, using a transverse mode decomposition, for each type of possible linear combination of the pixels' outputs we give the exact expression of the detection mode, i.e. the mode carrying the noise. We give also the only way to reduce the noise in one or several simultaneous measurements.

id: quant-ph/0407247
title: Deciding separability with a fixed error
authors: David Perez-Garcia
comments: 7 pages. To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 330 (2004) 149-154.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407247
abstract: We give a short proof of the cross norm characterization of separability due to O. Rudolph and show how its computation, for a fixed chosen error, can be reduced to a linear programming problem whose dimension grows polynomially with the inverse of the error.

id: quant-ph/0407248
title: A Quantum Teleportation Game
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: Typographic corrections 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 3, 239 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407248
abstract: We investigate a game where a sender (Alice) teleports coherent states to two receivers (Bob and Charlie) through a tripartite Gaussian state. The aim of the receivers is to optimize their teleportation fidelities by means of local operations and classical communications. We show that a non-cooperative strategy, corresponding to the standard telecloning protocol, can be outperformed by a cooperative strategy, which gives rise to a novel (cooperative) telecloning protocol.

id: quant-ph/0407249
title: Application of the variational $R$-matrix method to one-dimensional quantum tunneling
authors: Joseph Kimeu, Roland Mai, Kingshuk Majumdar
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407249
abstract: We have applied the variational $R$-matrix method to calculate the reflection and tunneling probabilities of particles tunneling through one-dimensional potential barriers for five different types of potential profiles -- truncated linear step, truncated exponential step, truncated parabolic, bell-shaped, and Eckart. Our variational results for the transmission and reflection coefficients are compared with exact analytical results and results obtained from other numerical methods. We find that our results are in good agreement with them. We conclude that the variational $R$-matrix method is a simple, non-iterative, and effective method to solve one-dimensional quantum tunneling problems.

id: quant-ph/0407250
title: Cavity QED quantum phase gates for a single longitudinal mode of the intracavity field
authors: R. Garc¨ªa--Maraver, R. Corbal¨¢n, K. Eckert, S. Rebi?, M. Artoni, J. Mompart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407250
abstract: A single three-level atom driven by a longitudinal mode of a high-Q cavity is used to implement two-qubit quantum phase gates for the intracavity field. The two qubits are associated to the zero-and one-photon Fock states of each of the two opposite circular polarization states of the field. The three-level atom yields the conditional phase gate provided the two polarization states and the atom interact in a $V$-type configuration and the two photon resonance condition is fulfilled. Microwave and optical implementations are discussed with gate fidelities being evaluated against several decoherence mechanisms such as atomic velocity fluctuations or the presence of a weak magnetic field. The use of coherent states for both polarization states is investigated to assess the entanglement capability of the proposed quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0407251
title: Bell Gems: the Bell basis generalized
authors: Gregg Jaeger
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 329, 425 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407251
abstract: A class of self-similar sets of entangled quantum states is introduced, for which a recursive definition is provided. These sets, the "Bell gems," are defined by the subsystem exchange symmetry characteristic of the Bell states. Each Bell gem is shown to be an orthonormal basis of maximally entangled elements. A non-trivial example Bell gem is presented. Quantum circuits for producing the elements of this example from the computational basis states are provided.

id: quant-ph/0407252
title: Generalized Coherent States for q-oscillator connected with discrete q-Hermite polynomials
authors: Vadim V. Borzov, Eugene V. Damaskinsky
comments: 15pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407252
abstract: We are continuing here the study of generalized coherent states of Barut-Girardello type for the oscillator-like systems connected with the given set of orthogonal polynomials. In this work we construct the family of coherent states associated with discrete $q$-Hermite polynomials of the II-type and prove the over-completeness of this family of states by constructing the measure for unity decomposition for this family of coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0407253
title: Generalization of the Deutsch algorithm using two qudits
authors: Jose L. Cereceda
comments: LaTeX file, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407253
abstract: Deutsch's algorithm for two qubits (one control qubit plus one auxiliary qubit) is extended to two $d$-dimensional quantum systems or qudits for the case in which $d$ is equal to $2^n$, $n=1,2,...$ . This allows one to classify a certain oracle function by just one query, instead of the $2^{n-1}+1$ queries required by classical means. The given algorithm for two qudits also solves efficiently the Bernstein-Vazirani problem. Entanglement does not occur at any step of the computation.

id: quant-ph/0407254
title: Quasideterministic generation of maximally entangled states of two mesoscopic atomic ensembles by adiabatic quantum feedback
authors: Antonio Di Lisi, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati, David Vitali
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, title changed, revised version published on Phys. Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407254
abstract: We introduce an efficient, quasideterministic scheme to generate maximally entangled states of two atomic ensembles. The scheme is based on quantum nondemolition measurements of total atomic populations and on adiabatic quantum feedback conditioned by the measurements outputs. The high efficiency of the scheme is tested and confirmed numerically for ideal photodetection as well as in the presence of losses.

id: quant-ph/0407255
title: Long-range quantum entanglement in noisy cluster states
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Sergey Bravyi, Jim Harrington
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407255
abstract: We describe a phase transition for long-range entanglement in a three-dimensional cluster state affected by noise. The partially decohered state is modeled by the thermal state of a suitable Hamiltonian. We find that the temperature at which the entanglement length changes from infinite to finite is nonzero. We give an upper and lower bound to this transition temperature.

id: quant-ph/0407256
title: Deterministic Plug-and-Play for Quantum Communication
authors: M. Lucamarini, G. Di Giuseppe
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; one reference updated
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 3, 189 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407256
abstract: We present a scheme for secure deterministic quantum communication without using entanglement, in a Plug-and-Play fashion. The protocol is completely deterministic, both in the encoding procedure and in the control one, thus doubling the communication rate with respect to other setups; moreover, deterministic nature of transmission, apart from rendering unnecessary bases revelation on the public channel, allows the realization of protocols like `direct communication' and `quantum dialogue'. The encoding exploits the phase degree of freedom of a photon, thus paving the way to an optical fiber implementation, feasible with present day technology.

id: quant-ph/0407257
title: Wigner-Weyl isomorphism for quantum mechanics on Lie groups
authors: N. Mukunda, G. Marmo, Alessandro Zampini, S. Chaturvedi, R.Simon
comments: 32 pages, Latex2e
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 012106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407257
abstract: The Wigner-Weyl isomorphism for quantum mechanics on a compact simple Lie group $G$ is developed in detail. Several New features are shown to arise which have no counterparts in the familiar Cartesian case. Notable among these is the notion of a `semiquantised phase space', a structure on which the Weyl symbols of operators turn out to be naturally defined and, figuratively speaking, located midway between the classical phase space $T^*G$ and the Hilbert space of square integrable functions on $G$. General expressions for the star product for Weyl symbols are presented and explicitly worked out for the angle-angular momentum case.

id: quant-ph/0407258
title: Teleportation of an atomic ensemble quantum state
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Nicolas Treps, Alberto Bramati, Michel Pinard
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 94 (2005) 050502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407258
abstract: We propose a protocol to achieve high fidelity quantum state teleportation of a macroscopic atomic ensemble using a pair of quantum-correlated atomic ensembles. We show how to prepare this pair of ensembles using quasiperfect quantum state transfer processes between light and atoms. Our protocol relies on optical joint measurements of the atomic ensemble states and magnetic feedback reconstruction.

id: quant-ph/0407259
title: Relativistic quantum communication with bosonic and fermionic interferometers
authors: Pieter Kok, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf. 4 (2006) 119
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407259
abstract: We derive the relativistic transformation laws for the annihilation operators of the scalar field, the massive spin-1 vector field, the electromagnetic field and the spinor field. The technique developed here involves straightforward mathematical techniques based on fundamental quantum field theory, and is applicable to the study of entanglement in arbitrary coordinate transformations. In particular, it predicts particle creation for non-inertial motion. Furthermore, we present a unified description of relativistic transformations and multi-particle interferometry with bosons and fermions, which encompasses linear optical quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0407260
title: On the Dynamics of Generalized Coherent States. I. Exact and Stable Evolution
authors: B.A. Nikolov, D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 10 pages. Electronic file of a 1981 Communication of JINR. Several short (clarifying) footnotes added. For Part II see quant-ph/0407261
journal: Commun. JINR E2-81-797 (Dubna, 1981)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407260
abstract: The exact and stable evolutions of generalized coherent states (GCS) for quantum systems are considered by making use of the time-dependent integrals of motion method and of the Klauder approach to the relationship between quantum and classical mechanics. It is shown that one can construct for any quantum system overcomplete family of states (OFS), related to the unitary representations of the Lie group G by means of integral of motion generators, and the possibility of using this group as a dynamical symmetry group is pointed out. The relation of the OFS with quantum measurement theory is also established.

id: quant-ph/0407261
title: On the Dynamics of Generalized Coherent States. II. Classical Equations of Motions
authors: B.A. Nikolov, D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 13 pages. Electronic file of a 1981 Communication of JINR. Several short (clarifying) footnotes added. For Part I see quant-ph/0407260
journal: Commun. JINR E2-81-798 (Dubna, 1981)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407261
abstract: Using the Klauder approach the stable evolution of generalized coherent states (GCS) for some groups (SU(2), SU(1,1) and SU(N)) is considered and it is shown that one and the same classical solution z(t) can correctly characterize the quantum evolution of many different (in general nonequivalent) systems. As examples some concrete systems are treated in greater detail: it is obtained that the nonstationary systems of the singular oscillator, of the particle motion in a magnetic field, and of the oscillator with friction all have stable SU(1,1) GCS whose quantum evolution is determined by one and the same classical function z(t). The physical properties of the constructed SU(1,1) GCS are discussed and it is shown particularly that in the case of discrete series D_k^+ they are those states for which the quantum mean values coincide with the statistical ones for an oscillator in a thermostat.

id: quant-ph/0407262
title: Quantum error correction of coherent errors by randomization
authors: O.Kern, G.Alber, D.L.Shepelyansky
comments: revtex 4 pages, 3 figs
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 32, 153 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407262
abstract: A general error correction method is presented which is capable of correcting coherent errors originating from static residual inter-qubit couplings in a quantum computer. It is based on a randomization of static imperfections in a many-qubit system by the repeated application of Pauli operators which change the computational basis. This Pauli-Random-Error-Correction (PAREC)-method eliminates coherent errors produced by static imperfections and increases significantly the maximum time over which realistic quantum computations can be performed reliably. Furthermore, it does not require redundancy so that all physical qubits involved can be used for logical purposes.

id: quant-ph/0407263
title: Kraus representation of damped harmonic oscillator and its application
authors: Yu-xi Liu, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Adam Miranowicz, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042308 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407263
abstract: By definition, the Kraus representation of a harmonic oscillator suffering from the environment effect, modeled as the amplitude damping or the phase damping, is directly given by a simple operator algebra solution. As examples and applications, we first give a Kraus representation of a single qubit whose computational basis states are defined as bosonic vacuum and single particle number states. We further discuss the environment effect on qubits whose computational basis states are defined as the bosonic odd and even coherent states. The environment effects on entangled qubits defined by two different kinds of computational basis are compared with the use of fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0407264
title: Effects of decoherence and imperfections for quantum algorithms
authors: A.A. Pomeransky, O.V. Zhirov, D.L. Shepelyansky
comments: 2 pages, 4 figs, contribution to EQIS04, related to quant-ph/0403138
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0407264
abstract: We study effects of static inter-qubit interactions and random errors in quantum gates on the stability of various quantum algorithms including the Grover quantum search algorithm and the quantum chaos maps. For the Grover algorithm our numerical and analytical results show existence of regular and chaotic phases depending on the static imperfection strength $\epsilon$. The critical border $\epsilon_c$ between two phases drops polynomially with the number of qubits $n_q$ as $\epsilon_c \sim n_q^{-3/2}$. In the regular phase $(\epsilon < \epsilon_c)$ the algorithm remains robust against imperfections showing the efficiency gain $\epsilon_c / \epsilon$ for $\epsilon > 2^{-n_q/2}$. In the chaotic phase $(\epsilon > \epsilon_c)$ the algorithm is completely destroyed. The results for the Grover algorithm are compared with the imperfection effects for quantum algorithms of quantum chaos maps where the universal law for the fidelity decay is given by the Random Matrix Theory (RMT). We also discuss a new gyroscopic quantum error correction method which allows to reduce the effect of static imperfections. In spite of this decay GYQEC allows to obtain a significant gain in the accuracy of quantum computations.

id: astro-ph/0407013
title: Quantum cosmological effects from the high redshift supernova observations
authors: V. V. Kuzmichev
comments: 22 pages, 7 EPS figures; a contribution to the International workshop on Frontiers of Particle Astrophysics, Kiev, June 21 - 24, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0407013
abstract: Subject of this contribution is to demonstrate that the observed faintness of the supernovae at the high redshift can be considered as a manifestation of quantum effects at cosmological scales. We show that observed redshift distribution of coordinate distances to the type Ia supernovae can be explained by the local manifestations of quantum fluctuations of the cosmological scale factor about its average value. These fluctuations can arise in the early universe, grow with time, and produce observed accelerating or decelerating expansions of space subdomains containing separate supernovae with high redshift whereas the universe as a whole expands at a steady rate.

id: cond-mat/0407008
title: Coherent electronic transfer in quantum dot systems using adiabatic passage
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, Jared H. Cole, A. R. Hamilton, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: Replaced with (approximately) the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 235317 (2004)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407008
abstract: We describe a scheme for using an all-electrical, rapid, adiabatic population transfer between two spatially separated dots in a triple-quantum dot system. The electron spends no time in the middle dot and does not change its energy during the transfer process. Although a coherent population transfer method, this scheme may well prove useful in incoherent electronic computation (for example quantum-dot cellular automata) where it may provide a coherent advantage to an otherwise incoherent device. It can also be thought of as a limiting case of type II quantum computing, where sufficient coherence exists for a single gate operation, but not for the preservation of superpositions after the operation. We extend our analysis to the case of many intervening dots and address the issue of transporting quantum information through a multi-dot system.

id: cond-mat/0407050
title: Dielectric anomaly in coupled rotor systems
authors: Hiroyuki Shima, Tsuneyoshi Nakayama
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (Figure 2 is available on request from shima@eng.hokudai.ac.jp)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 69, 035202 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407050
abstract: The correlated dynamics of coupled quantum rotors carrying electric dipole moment is theoretically investigated. The energy spectra of coupled rotors as a function of dipolar interaction energy is analytically solved. The calculated dielectric susceptibilities of the system show the peculiar temperature dependence different from that of isolated rotors.

id: cond-mat/0407066
title: Renormalization algorithms for Quantum-Many Body Systems in two and higher dimensions
authors: F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407066
abstract: We describe quantum many--body systems in terms of projected entangled--pair states, which naturally extend matrix product states to two and more dimensions. We present an algorithm to determine correlation functions in an efficient way. We use this result to build powerful numerical simulation techniques to describe the ground state, finite temperature, and evolution of spin systems in two and higher dimensions.

id: cond-mat/0407075
title: Effects of finite temperature on the Mott insulator state
authors: Guido Pupillo, Carl J. Williams, Nikolay V. Prokof'ev
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures; Final version, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013408 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407075
abstract: We investigate the effects of finite temperature on ultracold Bose atoms confined in an optical lattice plus a parabolic potential in the Mott insulator state. In particular, we analyze the temperature dependence of the density distribution of atomic pairs in the lattice, by means of exact Monte-Carlo simulations. We introduce a simple model that quantitatively accounts for the computed pair density distributions at low enough temperatures. We suggest that the temperature dependence of the atomic pair statistics may be used to estimate the system's temperature at energies of the order of the atoms' interaction energy.

id: cond-mat/0407139
title: Coherent rotations of a single spin-based qubit in a single quantum dot at fixed Zeeman energy
authors: Jordan Kyriakidis, Stephen J. Penney
comments: Restructured manuscript, more details shown (results unchanged); Six pages, revtex4; More info at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 125332 (2005) (5 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407139
abstract: Coherent rotations of single spin-based qubits may be accomplished electrically at fixed Zeeman energy with a qubit defined solely within a single electrostatically-defined quantum dot; the $g$-factor and the external magnetic field are kept constant. All that is required to be varied are the voltages on metallic gates which effectively change the shape of the elliptic quantum dot. The pseudospin-1/2 qubit is constructed from the two-dimensional $S=1/2$, $S_z=-1/2$ subspace of three interacting electrons in a two-dimensional potential well. Rotations are created by altering the direction of the pseudomagnetic field through changes in the shape of the confinement potential. By deriving an exact analytic solution to the long-range Coulomb interaction matrix elements, we calculate explicitly the range of magnitudes and directions the pseudomagnetic field can take. Numerical estimates are given for {GaAs}.

id: cond-mat/0407152
title: Diffusive teleportation on a quantum dot chain
authors: F. de Pasquale, G. Giorgi, S. Paganelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407152
abstract: We introduce a model of quantum teleportation on a channel built on a quantum dot chain. Quantum dots are coupled through hopping and each dot can accept zero, one or two electrons. Vacuum and double occupation states have the same potential energy, while single occupation states are characterized by a lower potential energy. A single dot initially decoupled from the others is weakly coupled with an external element (Bob), where a pair of electrons has been previously localized. Because of hopping after a suitable time the two dots charge states become maximally entangled. Another chain dot (Alice) is put in an unknown superposition of vacuum and double occupation states, and the other dots are initially empty. The time evolution of the system involves an electron diffusive process. A post selection procedure represented by the detection of charge pairs in a region of the chain equidistant from Alice and Bob, allows, if successful, the reconstruction on the Bob site of the unknown state initially encoded by Alice. The peculiar feature of the model is that the introduction of a trapped magnetic field strongly improves the process efficiency.

id: cond-mat/0407274
title: Chaotic dynamics in superconducting nanocircuits
authors: Simone Montangero, Alessandro Romito, Giuliano Benenti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 71, 893 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407274
abstract: The quantum kicked rotator can be realized in a periodically driven superconducting nanocircuit. A study of the fidelity allows the experimental investigation of exponential instability of quantum motion inside the Ehrenfest time scale, chaotic diffusion and quantum dynamical localization. The role of noise and the experimental setup to measure the fidelity is discussed as well.

id: cond-mat/0407325
title: Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics: Coherent Coupling of a Single Photon to a Cooper Pair Box
authors: A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R.-S. Huang, J. Majer, S. Kumar, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Nature, embargo does apply, version with high resolution figures available at: this http URL
journal: Nature (London) 431, 162-167 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407325
abstract: Under appropriate conditions, superconducting electronic circuits behave quantum mechanically, with properties that can be designed and controlled at will. We have realized an experiment in which a superconducting two-level system, playing the role of an artificial atom, is strongly coupled to a single photon stored in an on-chip cavity. We show that the atom-photon coupling in this circuit can be made strong enough for coherent effects to dominate over dissipation, even in a solid state environment. This new regime of matter light interaction in a circuit can be exploited for quantum information processing and quantum communication. It may also lead to new approaches for single photon generation and detection.

id: cond-mat/0407360
title: Hysteretic phenomena in many-body physics
authors: Ivan C. Danchev
comments: LaTeX file, 7 two-column pages;typos corrected;added lines on figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407360
abstract: We show that the cyclic evolution of an order parameter in a many-body system with spontaneous symmetry breaking in the ground state brings about a dissipative geometric phase. This phase originates from the same mechanism that leads to dissipation in thermo-field dynamics studied earlier by Umezawa and his collaborators and appears to be a manifestation of the dissipative geometric phase introduced recently by Jain and Pati.

id: cond-mat/0407415
title: Generalized constraints on quantum amplification
authors: U. Gavish, B. Yurke, Y. Imry
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 250601 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407415
abstract: We derive quantum constraints on the minimal amount of noise added in linear amplification involving input or output signals whose component operators do not necessarily have c-number commutators, as is the case for fermion currents. This is a generalization of constraints derived for the amplification of bosonic fields whose components posses c-number commutators.

id: cond-mat/0407423
title: Correlation-induced suppression of decoherence in capacitively coupled Cooper-pair boxes
authors: J. Q. You, Xuedong Hu, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 144529 (2005).
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407423
abstract: Charge fluctuations from gate bias and background traps severely limit the performance of a charge qubit in a Cooper-pair box (CPB). Here we present an experimentally realizable method to control the decoherence effects of these charge fluctuations using two strongly capacitively coupled CPBs. This coupled-box system has a low-decoherence subspace of two states. Our results show that the inter-box Coulomb correlation can help significantly suppress decoherence of this two-level system, making it a promising candidate as a logical qubit, encoded using two CPBs.

id: cond-mat/0407484
title: Decoherence due to telegraph and 1/f noise in Josephson qubits
authors: E. Paladino, A. Mastellone, A. D'Arrigo, G. Falci
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Mesoscopic Superconductivity and Spintronics 2004 (MS+S2004), Atsugi, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407484
abstract: We study decoherence due to random telegraph and 1/f noise in Josephson qubits. We illustrate differences between gaussian and non gaussian effects at different working points and for different protocols. Features of the intrinsically non-gaussian and non-Markovian low-frequency noise may explain the rich physics observed in the spectroscopy and the dynamics of charge based devices.

id: cond-mat/0407627
title: Ramsey interferometry with atoms and molecules: two-body versus many-body phenomena
authors: Krzysztof Goral, Thorsten Koehler, Keith Burnett
comments: 22 pages, 12 eps figures; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 023603 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407627
abstract: We discuss the frequency and visibility of atom-molecule Ramsey fringes observed in recent experiments by Claussen et al.[Phys. Rev. A 67, 060701 (2003)]. In these experiments a 85Rb Bose-Einstein condensate was exposed to a sequence of magnetic field pulses on the high field side of the 155 G Feshbach resonance. The observed oscillation frequencies largely agree with the theoretically predicted magnetic field dependence of the binding energy of the highest excited diatomic vibrational state, except for a small region very close to the singularity of the scattering length. Our analytic treatment of the experiment, as well as our dynamical simulations, follow the magnitude of the measured oscillation frequencies as well as the visibilities of the Ramsey fringes. We show that significant deviations from a purely binary dynamics, with an associated binding frequency, occur when the spatial extent of the molecular wave function becomes comparable with the mean distance between the atoms in the dilute gas. The experiments thus clearly identify the conditions under which diatomic molecules may be identified as a separate entity of the gas or, conversely, when the concept of binary physics in a many-body environment is bound to break down.

id: cond-mat/0407658
title: Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata using Buried Dopants
authors: Jared H. Cole, Andrew D. Greentree, Cameron J. Wellard, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Steven Prawer
comments: Minor changes in response to referees comments. Improved section on scaling and added plot of incoherent switching times
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 115302 (2005) (10 pages)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407658
abstract: The use of buried dopants to construct quantum-dot cellular automata is investigated as an alternative to conventional electronic devices for information transport and elementary computation. This provides a limit in terms of miniaturisation for this type of system as each potential well is formed by a single dopant atom. As an example, phosphorous donors in silicon are found to have good energy level separation with incoherent switching times of the order of microseconds. However, we also illustrate the possibility of ultra-fast quantum coherent switching via adiabatic evolution. The switching speeds are numerically calculated and found to be 10's of picoseconds or less for a single cell. The effect of decoherence is also simulated in the form of a dephasing process and limits are estimated for operation with finite dephasing. The advantages and limitations of this scheme over the more conventional quantum-dot based scheme are discussed. The use of a buried donor cellular automata system is also discussed as an architecture for testing several aspects of buried donor based quantum computing schemes.

id: cond-mat/0407663
title: Superconducting tetrahedral quantum bits
authors: M.V.Feigel'man, L.B. Ioffe, V.B. Geshkenbein, P.Dayal, G. Blatter
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407663
abstract: We propose a new design for a quantum bit with four superconducting islands in the topology of a symmetric tetrahedron, uniformly frustrated with one-half flux-quantum per loop and one-half Cooper-pair per island. This structure emulates a noise-resistant spin-1/2 system in a vanishing magnetic field. The tetrahedral quantum bit combines a number of advances such as a doubly degeneracy ground state minimizing decoherence via phonon radiation, a weak quadratic sensitivity to electric and magnetic noise, relieved constraints on the junction fabrication, a large freedom in manipulation, and attractive measurement schemes. The simultaneous appearance of a degenerate ground state and a weak noise sensitivity are consequences of the tetrahedral symmetry, while enhanced quantum fluctuations derive from the special magnetic frustration. We determine the spectral properties of the tetrahedral structure within a semiclassical analysis and confirm the results numerically. We show how proper tuning of the charge-frustration selects a doubly degenerate ground state and discuss the qubit's manipulation through capacitive and inductive coupling to external bias sources. The complete readout of all the spin-components is achieved through coupling of the internal qubit currents to external junctions driven close to criticality during the measurement.

id: cond-mat/0407667
title: Quantum computation with Josephson-qubits by using a current-biased information bus
authors: L.F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages with 2 figures. submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 134506 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407667
abstract: We propose an effective scheme for manipulating quantum information stored in a superconducting nanocircuit. The Josephson qubits are coupled via their separate interactions with an information bus, a large current-biased Josephson junction treated as an oscillator with adjustable frequency. The bus is sequentially coupled to only one qubit at a time. Distant Josephson qubits without any direct interaction can be indirectly coupled with each other by independently interacting with the bus sequentially, via exciting/de-exciting vibrational quanta in the bus. This is a superconducting analog of the successful ion trap experiments on quantum computing. Our approach differs from previous schemes that simultaneously coupled two qubits to the bus, as opposed to their sequential coupling considered here. The significant quantum logic gates can be realized by using these tunable and selective couplings. The decoherence properties of the proposed quantum system are analyzed within the Bloch-Redfield formalism. Numerical estimations of certain important experimental parameters are provided.

id: cond-mat/0407675
title: Dynamics of an ion chain in a harmonic potential
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 70, 066141 (2004).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407675
abstract: Cold ions in anisotropic harmonic potentials can form ion chains of various sizes. Here, the density of ions is not uniform, thus the eigenmodes are not phononic-like waves. We study chains of N>>1 ions and evaluate analytically the long wavelength modes and the density of states in the short wavelength limit. These results reproduce with good approximation the dynamics of chains consisting of dozens of ions. Moreover, they allow to determine the critical transverse frequency required for the stability of the linear structure, which is found in agreement with results obtained by different theoretical methods [D.H.E. Dubin, Phys. Rev. Lett. 71, 2753 (1993)] and by numerical simulations [J.P. Schiffer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 818 (1993)]. We introduce and explore the thermodynamic limit for the ion chain. The thermodynamic functions are found to exhibit deviations from extensivity.

id: cond-mat/0407702
title: Quantum ratchets in dissipative chaotic systems
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: Significant changes: Several text improvements and new results. Figure 2 modified. Figure 4 added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 164101 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407702
abstract: Using the method of quantum trajectories we study a quantum chaotic dissipative ratchet appearing for particles in a pulsed asymmetric potential in the presence of a dissipative environment. The system is characterized by directed transport emerging from a quantum strange attractor. This model exhibits, in the limit of small effective Planck constant, a transition from quantum to classical behavior, in agreement with the correspondence principle. We also discuss parameter values suitable for implementation of the quantum ratchet effect with cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0407756
title: Ground state of many-body lattice systems: an analytical probabilistic approach
authors: Massimo Ostilli, Carlo Presilla
comments: 
journal: New J.Phys. 6 (2004) 107
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407756
abstract: On the grounds of a Feynman-Kac--type formula for Hamiltonian lattice systems we derive analytical expressions for the matrix elements of the evolution operator. These expressions are valid at long times when a central limit theorem applies. As a remarkable result we find that the ground-state energy as well as all the correlation functions in the ground state are determined semi-analytically by solving a simple scalar equation. Furthermore, explicit solutions of this equation are obtained in the noninteracting case.

id: cond-mat/0407758
title: Exact Monte Carlo time dynamics in many-body lattice quantum systems
authors: Massimo Ostilli, Carlo Presilla
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A38:405-426,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407758
abstract: On the base of a Feynman-Kac--type formula involving Poisson stochastic processes, recently a Monte Carlo algorithm has been introduced, which describes exactly the real- or imaginary-time evolution of many-body lattice quantum systems. We extend this algorithm to the exact simulation of time-dependent correlation functions. The techniques generally employed in Monte Carlo simulations to control fluctuations, namely reconfigurations and importance sampling, are adapted to the present algorithm and their validity is rigorously proved. We complete the analysis by several examples for the hard-core boson Hubbard model and for the Heisenberg model.

id: cond-mat/0407780
title: Full protection of superconducting qubit systems from coupling errors
authors: M.J. Storcz, J. Vala, K.R. Brown, J. Kempe, F.K. Wilhelm, K.B. Whaley
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 064511 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0407780
abstract: Solid state qubits realized in superconducting circuits are potentially extremely scalable. However, strong decoherence may be transferred to the qubits by various elements of the circuits that couple individual qubits, particularly when coupling is implemented over long distances. We propose here an encoding that provides full protection against errors originating from these coupling elements, for a chain of superconducting qubits with a nearest neighbor anisotropic XY-interaction. The encoding is also seen to provide partial protection against errors deriving from general electronic noise.

id: cs/0407056
title: On the hardness of distinguishing mixed-state quantum computations
authors: Bill Rosgen, John Watrous
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0407056
abstract: This paper considers the following problem. Two mixed-state quantum circuits Q and R are given, and the goal is to determine which of two possibilities holds: (i) Q and R act nearly identically on all possible quantum state inputs, or (ii) there exists some input state that Q and R transform into almost perfectly distinguishable outputs. This problem may be viewed as an abstraction of the following problem: given two physical processes described by sequences of local interactions, are the processes effectively the same or are they different? We prove that this problem is a complete promise problem for the class QIP of problems having quantum interactive proof systems, and is therefore PSPACE-hard. This is in sharp contrast to the fact that the analogous problem for classical (probabilistic) circuits is in AM, and for unitary quantum circuits is in QMA.

id: gr-qc/0407070
title: Searching for a solution to the cosmological constant problem - a toy model
authors: Wojciech P. Tarkowski
comments: 53 pages, 2 figures; published in 2001, a number of sentences added
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.18:2359-2391,2001
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0407070
abstract: This paper concerns the so-called cosmological constant problem. In order to solve it, we propose a toy model providing an extension of the dimensionality of spacetime, with an additional spatial dimension which is macroscopically unobservable. The toy model introduces no corrections to most predictions of the "standard" general relativity regarding, among others, the so-called "five tests of general relativity". However, it seems that the toy model could provide an explanation to the flatness of circular velocity curves of spiral galaxies without introducing any dark matter. The proposed model has quite important cosmological consequences. By introducing certain corrections to Friedmann's currently accepted model(s), the toy model allows one to solve problems related to the present density of matter in the Universe and, finally, it does not contain the initial singularity.

id: gr-qc/0407090
title: Classical information transmission capacity of quantum black holes
authors: Christoph Adami, Greg Ver Steeg
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures. Uses iopart.cls
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 31 (2014) 075015
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0407090
abstract: The fate of classical information incident on a quantum black hole has been the subject of an ongoing controversy in theoretical physics, because a calculation within the framework of semi-classical curved-space quantum field theory appears to show that the incident information is irretrievably lost, in contradiction to time-honored principles such as time-reversibility and unitarity. Here, we show within this framework embedded in quantum communication theory that signaling from past to future infinity in the presence of a Schwarzschild black hole can occur with arbitrary accuracy, and thus that classical information is not lost in black hole dynamics. The calculation relies on a treatment that is manifestly unitary from the outset, where probability conservation is guaranteed because black holes stimulate the emission of radiation in response to infalling matter. This stimulated radiation is non-thermal, and contains all of the information about the infalling matter, while Hawking radiation contains none of it.

id: hep-ph/0407258
title: Bound States and Critical Behavior of the Yukawa Potential
authors: Xiang-Qian Luo, Yong-Yao Li, Helmut Kroger
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures, 5 tables. Version to appear in Sciences in China G
journal: Sci.China G35 (2005) 631-642
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0407258
abstract: We investigate the bound states of the Yukawa potential $V(r)=-\lambda \exp(-\alpha r)/ r$, using different algorithms: solving the Schr\"odinger equation numerically and our Monte Carlo Hamiltonian approach. There is a critical $\alpha=\alpha_C$, above which no bound state exists. We study the relation between $\alpha_C$ and $\lambda$ for various angular momentum quantum number $l$, and find in atomic units, $\alpha_{C}(l)= \lambda [A_{1} \exp(-l/ B_{1})+ A_{2} \exp(-l/ B_{2})]$, with $A_1=1.020(18)$, $B_1=0.443(14)$, $A_2=0.170(17)$, and $B_2=2.490(180)$.

id: hep-th/0407019
title: Quantum field theory on a growing lattice
authors: Brendan Z. Foster, Ted Jacobson
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures; v.2: added comments on defining energy, and references
journal: JHEP 0408 (2004) 024
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407019
abstract: We construct the classical and canonically quantized theories of a massless scalar field on a background lattice in which the number of points--and hence the number of modes--may grow in time. To obtain a well-defined theory certain restrictions must be imposed on the lattice. Growth-induced particle creation is studied in a two-dimensional example. The results suggest that local mode birth of this sort injects too much energy into the vacuum to be a viable model of cosmological mode birth.

id: hep-th/0407032
title: Black Holes, Information Loss, and Hidden Variables
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 50 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407032
abstract: We consider black-hole evaporation from a hidden-variables perspective. It is suggested that Hawking information loss, associated with the transition from a pure to a mixed quantum state, is compensated for by the creation of deviations from Born-rule probabilities outside the event horizon. The resulting states have non-standard or 'nonequilibrium' distributions of hidden variables, with a specific observable signature - a breakdown of the sinusoidal modulation of quantum probabilities for two-state systems. Outgoing Hawking radiation is predicted to contain statistical anomalies outside the domain of the quantum formalism. Further, it is argued that even for a macroscopic black hole, if one half of an entangled EPR-pair should fall behind the event horizon, the other half will develop similar statistical anomalies. We propose a simple rule, whereby the relative entropy of the nonequilibrum (hidden-variable) distribution generated outside the horizon balances the increase in von Neumann entropy associated with the pure-to-mixed transition. It is argued that there are relationships between hidden-variable and von Neumann entropies even in non-gravitational physics. We consider the possibility of observing anomalous polarisation probabilities, in the radiation from primordial black holes, and in the atomic cascade emission of entangled photon pairs from black-hole accretion discs.

id: hep-th/0407077
title: Nonlinear Supersymmetry for Spectral Design in Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. A. Andrianov, F. Cannata
comments: 30 pages, IOP style, talk at PSQM-2003 (Valladolid); minor corrections in refs
journal: J.Phys. A37 (2004) 10297-10323
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407077
abstract: Nonlinear (Polynomial, N-fold) SUSY approach to preparation of quantum systems with pre-planned spectral properties is reviewed. The full classification of ladder-reducible and irreducible chains of SUSY algebras in one-dimensional QM is given. Possible extensions of SUSY in one dimension are described. They include (no more than) ${\cal N} =2$ extended SUSY with two nilpotent SUSY charges which generate the hidden symmetry acting as a central charge. Embedding stationary quantum systems into a non-stationary SUSY QM is shown to yield new insight on quantum orbits and on spectrum generating algebras.

id: hep-th/0407086
title: Noncommutativity in Maxwell-Chern-Simons-Matter Theory Simulates Pauli Magnetic Coupling
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: Revised version, Title changed, No changes in maths. part and conclusions, To appear in Mod.Phys.Lett. A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A20:1227-1238,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407086
abstract: We study interactions between like charges in the noncommutative Maxwell-Chern-Simons electrodynamics {\it{minimally}} coupled to spinors or scalars. We demonstrate that the non-relativistic potential profiles, for only spatial noncommutativity, are nearly identical to the ones generated by a {\it{non-minimal}} Pauli magnetic coupling, originally introduced by Stern \cite{js}. Although the Pauli term has crucial roles in the context of physically relevant objects such as anyons and like-charge bound states (or "Cooper pairs"), its inception \cite{js} (see also \cite{others}) was ad-hoc and phenomenological in nature. On the other hand we recover similar results by extending the minimal model to the noncommutative plane, which has developed in to an important generalization to ordinary spacetime in recent years. No additional input is needed besides the noncommutativity parameter. We prove a novel result that for complex scalar matter sector, the bound states (or "Cooper pairs" can be generated {\it{only}} if the Maxwell-Chern-Simons-scalar theory is embedded in noncommutative spacetime. This is all the more interesting since the Chern-Simons term does not directly contribute a noncommutative correction term in the action.

id: hep-th/0407100
title: Quartic anharmonic many-body oscillator
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407100
abstract: Two quantum quartic anharmonic many-body oscillators are introduced. One of them is the celebrated Calogero model (rational $A_n$ model) modified by quartic anharmonic two-body interactions which support the same symmetry as the Calogero model. Another model is the three-body Wolfes model (rational $G_2$ model) with quartic anharmonic interaction added which has the same symmetry as the Wolfes model. Both models are studied in the framework of algebraic perturbation theory and by the variational method.

id: hep-th/0407103
title: Finslerian Quantum Field Theory
authors: Howard E. Brandt
comments: Invited plenary lecture at the Fourth World Congress of Nonlinear Analysts in the session: Applications of Finsler Differential Geometry (in Engineering, Physics and Biology), July 5, 2004, Orlando, Florida
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407103
abstract: Finsler geometry motivates a generalization of the Riemannian structure of spacetime to include dependence of the spacetime metric and associated invariant tensor fields on the four-velocity coordinates as well as the spacetime coordinates of the observer. It is then useful to consider the tangent bundle of spacetime with spacetime in the base manifold and four-velocity space in the fiber. A physical basis for the differential geometric structure of the spacetime tangent bundle is provided by the universal upper limit on proper acceleration relative to the vacuum. It is then natural to consider a quantum field having a vanishing eigenvalue when acted on by the Laplace-Beltrami operator of the spacetime tangent bundle. On this basis a quantum field theory can be constructed having a built-in intrinsic regularization at the Planck scale, and finite vacuum energy density.

id: hep-th/0407109
title: Planar Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics of a Charged Particle in an External Electromagnetic Field
authors: Ricardo C. Paschoal, Jos¨¦ A. Helay?l-Neto, Leonardo P. G. de Assis
comments: V3-Improved by Referees' sugestions. REVTeX4 6 pages (twocolumn option), no figures. V2-Minor changes. A previous version of this work was presented by JAHN during the II Intern. Conf. on Fundamental Interactions, June 2004, Pedra Azul-ES, Brazil. Submitted to Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Lett. A349 (2006) 67-74
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407109
abstract: The supersymmetric quantum mechanics of a two-dimensional non-relativistic particle subject to external magnetic and electric fields is studied in a superfield formulation and with the typical non-minimal coupling of (2+1) dimensions. Both the N=1 and N=2 cases are contemplated and the introduction of the electric interaction is suitably analysed.

id: hep-th/0407161
title: A Quantum is a Complex Structure on Classical Phase Space
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 2 (2005) 633-655
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407161
abstract: Duality transformations within the quantum mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom can be regarded as the dependence of the notion of a quantum, i.e., an elementary excitation of the vacuum, on the observer on classical phase space. Under an observer we understand, as in general relativity, a local coordinate chart. While classical mechanics can be formulated using a symplectic structure on classical phase space, quantum mechanics requires a complex-differentiable structure on that same space. Complex-differentiable structures on a given real manifold are often not unique. This article is devoted to analysing the dependence of the notion of a quantum on the complex-differentiable structure chosen on classical phase space.

id: hep-th/0407228
title: Covariant canonical quantization of fields and Bohmian mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 17 pages, revised, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C42:365-374,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407228
abstract: We propose a manifestly covariant canonical method of field quantization based on the classical De Donder-Weyl covariant canonical formulation of field theory. Owing to covariance, the space and time arguments of fields are treated on an equal footing. To achieve both covariance and consistency with standard noncovariant canonical quantization of fields in Minkowski spacetime, it is necessary to adopt a covariant Bohmian formulation of quantum field theory. A preferred foliation of spacetime emerges dynamically owing to a purely quantum effect. The application to a simple time-reparametrization invariant system and quantum gravity is discussed and compared with the conventional noncovariant Wheeler-DeWitt approach.

id: hep-th/0407237
title: SUSY-hierarchy of one-dimensional reflectionless potentials
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk
comments: 33 pages, 10 files of figures in EPS format, LaTeX v.2e, ElsArt style
journal: Ann.Phys.316:440-465,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0407237
abstract: A class of one-dimensional reflectionless potentials, an absolute transparency of which is concerned with their belonging to one SUSY-hierarchy with a constant potential, is studied. An approach for determination of a general form of the reflectionless potential on the basis of construction of such a hierarchy by the recurrent method is proposed. A general form of interdependence between superpotentials with neighboring numbers of this hierarchy, opening a possibility to find new reflectionless potentials, have a simple analytical view and are expressed through finite number of elementary functions (unlike some reflectionless potentials, which are constructed on the basis of soliton solutions or are shape invariant in one or many steps with involving scaling of parameters, and are expressed through series), is obtained. An analysis of absolute transparency existence for the potential which has the inverse power dependence on space coordinate (and here tunneling is possible), i.e. which has the form $V(x) = \pm \alpha / |x-x_{0}|^{n}$ (where $\alpha$ and $x_{0}$ are constants, $n$ is natural number), is fulfilled. It is shown that such a potential can be reflectionless at n = 2 only. A SUSY-hierarchy of the inverse power reflectionless potentials is constructed. Isospectral expansions of this hierarchy is analyzed.

id: math-ph/0407015
title: The MHD alpha^2-dynamo, Z_2-graded pseudo-Hermiticity, level crossings and exceptional points of branching type
authors: U. Guenther, F. Stefani, G. Gerbeth
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, Conf. Proc., 2nd International Workshop "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics", Prague, Czech Republic, June 14-16 2004; minor cosmetic improvements, Ref. added
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 54 (2004) 1075-1089
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0407015
abstract: The spectral branching behavior of the 2x2 operator matrix of the magneto-hydrodynamic alpha^2-dynamo is analyzed numerically. Some qualitative aspects of level crossings are briefly discussed with the help of a simple toy model which is based on a Z_2-graded-pseudo-Hermitian 2x2 matrix. The considered issues comprise: the underlying SU(1,1) symmetry and the Krein space structure of the system, exceptional points of branching type and diabolic points, as well as the algebraic and geometric multiplicity of corresponding degenerate eigenvalues.

id: math-ph/0407056
title: Internal Turing Machines
authors: Ken Loo
comments: clarified the Halting problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0407056
abstract: Using nonstandard analysis, we will extend the classical Turing machines into the internal Turing machines. The internal Turing machines have the capability to work with infinite ($*$-finite) number of bits while keeping the finite combinatoric structures of the classical Turing machines. We will show the following. The internal deterministic Turing machines can do in $*$-polynomial time what a classical deterministic Turing machine can do in an arbitrary finite amount of time. Given an element of $<M;x>\in HALT$ (more precisely, the $*$-embedding of $HALT$), there is an internal deterministic Turing machine which will take $<M;x>$ as input and halt in the $"yes"$ state. The language ${}^*Halt$ can not be decided by the internal deterministic Turing machines. The internal deterministic Turing machines can be viewed as the asymptotic behavior of finite precision approximation to real number computations. It is possible to use the internal probabilistic Turing machines to simulate finite state quantum mechanics with infinite precision. This simulation suggests that no information can be transmitted instantaneously and at the same time, the Turing machine model can simulate instantaneous collapse of the wave function. The internal deterministic Turing machines are powerful, but if $P \neq NP$, then there are internal problems which the internal deterministic Turing machines can solve but not in $*$-polynomial time.

id: math-ph/0407075
title: Continuous Limit of Discrete Sawtooth Maps and its Algebraic Framework
authors: Fabio Benatti, Valerio Cappellini
comments: LaTeX, 45 pages, 5 figures. Small changes in the content, references added. To appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46(6), 062702 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0407075
abstract: We study the presence of a logarithmic time scale in discrete approximations of Sawtooth Maps on the 2--torus. The techniques used are suggested by quantum mechanical similarities, and are based on a particular class of states on the torus, that fulfill dynamical localization properties typical of quantum Coherent States.

id: math/0407018
title: Eigenvalues of PT-symmetric oscillators with polynomial potentials
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure. v2: equation (14) as well as a few subsequent equations has been changed. v3: typos corrected
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 6147-6166
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0407018
abstract: We study the eigenvalue problem $-u^{\prime\prime}(z)-[(iz)^m+P_{m-1}(iz)]u(z)=\lambda u(z)$ with the boundary conditions that $u(z)$ decays to zero as $z$ tends to infinity along the rays $\arg z=-\frac{\pi}{2}\pm \frac{2\pi}{m+2}$, where $P_{m-1}(z)=a_1 z^{m-1}+a_2 z^{m-2}+...+a_{m-1} z$ is a polynomial and integers $m\geq 3$. We provide an asymptotic expansion of the eigenvalues $\lambda_n$ as $n\to+\infty$, and prove that for each {\it real} polynomial $P_{m-1}$, the eigenvalues are all real and positive, with only finitely many exceptions.

id: nlin/0407012
title: The morphology of nodal lines-random waves versus percolation
authors: Georg Foltin, Sven Gnutzmann, Uzy Smilansky
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures (incl. one coloured figure), published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 37, 11363-11371 (2004)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0407012
abstract: In this paper we investigate the properties of nodal structures in random wave fields, and in particular we scrutinize their recently proposed connection with short-range percolation models. We propose a measure which shows the difference between monochromatic random waves, which are characterized by long-range correlations, and Gaussian fields with short-range correlations, which are naturally assumed to be better modelled by percolation theory. We also study the relevance of the quantities which we compute to the probability that nodal lines are in the vicinity of a given reference line.

id: nucl-th/0407029
title: Effect of a finite-time resolution on Schr?dinger Cat States in complex collisions
authors: L. Benet, S.Yu. Kun, Wang Qi, V. Denisov
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures (in colour); uses elsart.cls
journal: Phys.Lett. B605 (2005) 101-105
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0407029
abstract: We study the effect of finite time resolution on coherent superpositions of rotating clockwise and anticlockwise wave packets in the regime of strongly overlapping resonances of the intermediate complex. Such highly excited deformed complexes may be created in binary collisions of heavy-ions, molecules and atomic clusters. It is shown that time averaging reduces the interference fringes acting effectively as dephasing. We propose a simple estimate of the ``critical'' time averaging interval. For the time averaging intervals bigger than the critical one the interference fringes wash out appreciably. This is confirmed numerically. We evaluate minimal energy intervals for measurements of the excitation functions needed to observe the Schr\"{o}dinger Cat States. These should be easily observable in heavy-ion scattering. Such an experiment is suggested.

id: physics/0407051
title: Observation of modified radiative properties of cold atoms in vacuum near a dielectric surface
authors: V. V. Ivanov, R. A. Cornelussen, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell, R. J. C. Spreeuw
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, some minor revisions
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 454-459
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0407051
abstract: We have observed a distance-dependent absorption linewidth of cold $^{87}$Rb atoms close to a dielectric-vacuum interface. This is the first observation of modified radiative properties in vacuum near a dielectric surface. A cloud of cold atoms was created using a magneto-optical trap (MOT) and optical molasses cooling. Evanescent waves (EW) were used to observe the behavior of the atoms near the surface. We observed an increase of the absorption linewidth with up to 25% with respect to the free-space value. Approximately half the broadening can be explained by cavity-quantum electrodynamics (CQED) as an increase of the natural linewidth and inhomogeneous broadening. The remainder we attribute to local Stark shifts near the surface. By varying the characteristic EW length we have observed a distance dependence characteristic for CQED.

id: physics/0407154
title: A Scaling Approach to Ideal Quantum Gases
authors: Thomas Nattermann
comments: 
journal: Am. J. Phys. 73 (4), 349 (2005)
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0407154
abstract: The thermodynamic properties of ideal quantum gases are derived solely from dimensional arguments, the Pauli principle and thermodynamic relations, without resorting to statistical mechanics.

id: gr-qc/0407075
title: Gravitational Vacuum Condensate Stars
authors: Pawel O. Mazur, Emil Mottola
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX file
journal: Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.101:9545-9550,2004
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0407075
abstract: A new final state of gravitational collapse is proposed. By extending the concept of Bose-Einstein condensation to gravitational systems, a cold, dark, compact object with an interior de Sitter condensate $p_{_V} = -\rho_{_V}$ and an exterior Schwarzschild geometry of arbitrary total mass $M$ is constructed. These are separated by a shell with a small but finite proper thickness $\ell$ of fluid with equation of state $p=+\rho$, replacing both the Schwarzschild and de Sitter classical horizons. The new solution has no singularities, no event horizons, and a global time. Its entropy is maximized under small fluctuations and is given by the standard hydrodynamic entropy of the thin shell, which is of order $k_{_B}\ell Mc/\hbar$, instead of the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy formula, $S_{_{BH}}= 4\pi k_{_B} G M^2/\hbar c$. Hence unlike black holes, the new solution is thermodynamically stable and has no information paradox.

id: physics/0407048
title: Zeros of Rydberg-Rydberg Foster Interactions
authors: Thad G. Walker, Mark Saffman
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, submitted to J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) S309\^a?"S319
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0407048
abstract: Rydberg states of atoms are of great current interest for quantum manipulation of mesoscopic samples of atoms. Long-range Rydberg-Rydberg interactions can inhibit multiple excitations of atoms under the appropriate conditions. These interactions are strongest when resonant collisional processes give rise to long-range C_3/R^3 interactions. We show in this paper that even under resonant conditions C_3 often vanishes so that care is required to realize full dipole blockade in micron-sized atom samples.

