id: quant-ph/0408001
title: Two-photon "ghost" imaging with thermal light
authors: Alejandra Valencia, Giuliano Scarcelli, Milena D'Angelo, Y. Shih
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 94, 063601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408001
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of two-photon imaging with a pseudo-thermal source. Similarly to the case of entangled states, a two-photon Gaussian thin lens equation is observed, indicating EPR type correlation in position. We introduce the concepts of two-photon coherent and two-photon incoherent imaging. The differences between the entangled and the thermal cases are explained in terms of these concepts.

id: quant-ph/0408002
title: Contextual Observables and Quantum Information
authors: M. Kupczynski
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408002
abstract: In this short paper we present the main features of a new quantum programming language proposed recently by Peter Selinger which gives a good idea about the difficulties of constructing a scalable quantum computer. We show how some of these difficulties are related to the contextuality of quantum observables and to the abstract and statistical character of quantun theory (QT). We discuss also, in some detail, the statistical interpretation (SI) of QT and the contextuality of observables indicating the importance of these concepts for the whole domain of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0408003
title: Towards the theory of control in observable quantum systems
authors: V P Belavkin
comments: Translation from Russian. See also recent related publications on this http URL
journal: Automatica and Remote Control, v 44, pp 178-188 (1983)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408003
abstract: An operational description of the controlled Markov dynamics of quantum-mechanical system is introduced. The feedback control strategies with regard to the dynamical reduction of quantum states in the course of quantum real-time measurements are discribed in terms of quantum filtering of these states. The concept of sufficient coordinates for the description of the a posteriori quantum states from a given class is introduced, and it is proved that they form a classical Markov process with values in either state operators or state vector space. The general problem of optimal control of a quantum-mechanical system is discussed and the corresponding Bellman equation in the space of sufficient coordinates is derived. The results are illustrated in the example of control of the semigroup dynamics of a quantum system that is instantaneously observed at discrete times and evolves between measurement times according to the Schroedinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0408004
title: Remark on the additivity conjecture for the quantum depolarizing channel
authors: G.G. Amosov
comments: 11 pages
journal: Probl. Inf. Transm. 42 (2006) no.2, 69-76
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408004
abstract: We consider bistochastic quantum channels generated by unitary representations of the discret group. The proof of the additivity conjecture for the quantum depolarizing channel $\Phi$ based on the decreasing property of the relative entropy is given. We show that the additivity conjecture is true for the channel $\Xi =\Psi \circ \Phi $, where $\Psi $ is the phase damping.

id: quant-ph/0408005
title: Extremal Entanglement For Triqubit Pure States
authors: Feng Pan, Dan Liu, Guoying Lu, J. P. Draayer
comments: 6 pages LaTeX, 2 figure; recvised
journal: Phys. Lett. A 336 (2005)384
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408005
abstract: A complete analysis of entangled triqubit pure states is carried out based on a new simple entanglement measure. An analysis of all possible extremally entangled pure triqubit states with up to eight terms is shown to reduce, with the help of SLOCC transformations, to three distinct types. The analysis presented are most helpful for finding different entanglement types in multipartite pure state systems.

id: quant-ph/0408006
title: Fast Quantum Modular Exponentiation
authors: R. Van Meter, K. M. Itoh
comments: to appear in PRA 71(5); RevTeX, 12 pages, 12 figures; v2 revision is substantial, with new algorithmic variants, much shorter and clearer text, and revised equation formatting
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408006
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the impact on modular exponentiation of architectural features and possible concurrent gate execution. Various arithmetic algorithms are evaluated for execution time, potential concurrency, and space tradeoffs. We find that, to exponentiate an n-bit number, for storage space 100n (twenty times the minimum 5n), we can execute modular exponentiation two hundred to seven hundred times faster than optimized versions of the basic algorithms, depending on architecture, for n=128. Addition on a neighbor-only architecture is limited to O(n) time when non-neighbor architectures can reach O(log n), demonstrating that physical characteristics of a computing device have an important impact on both real-world running time and asymptotic behavior. Our results will help guide experimental implementations of quantum algorithms and devices.

id: quant-ph/0408007
title: Experimental Teleportation of a Quantum Controlled-NOT Gate
authors: Yun-Feng Huang, Xi-Feng Ren, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Lu-Ming Duan, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408007
abstract: Teleportation of quantum gates is a critical step for implementation of quantum networking and teleportation-based models of quantum computation. We report an experimental demonstration of teleportation of the prototypical quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. Assisted with linear optical manipulations, photon entanglement produced from parametric down conversion, and coincidence measurements, we teleport the quantum CNOT gate from acting on local qubits to acting on remote qubits. The quality of the quantum gate teleportation is characterized through the method of quantum process tomography, with an average fidelity of 0.84 demonstrated for the teleported gate.

id: quant-ph/0408008
title: Fano diagonalization of a polariton model for an inhomogeneous absorptive dielectric
authors: L.G. Suttorp, A.J.van Wonderen
comments: 7 pages, to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408008
abstract: The Hamiltonian of a polariton model for an inhomogeneous linear absorptive dielectric is diagonalized by means of Fano's diagonalization method. The creation and annihilation operators for the independent normal modes are explicitly found as linear combinations of the canonical operators. The coefficients in these combinations depend on the tensorial Green function that governs the propagation of electromagnetic waves through the dielectric. The time-dependent electromagnetic fields in the Heisenberg picture are given in terms of the diagonalizing operators. These results justify the phenomenological quantization of the electromagnetic field in an absorptive dielectric.

id: quant-ph/0408009
title: The Holevo capacity of infinite dimensional channels and the additivity problem
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 32 pages
journal: Comm. Math. Phys., Vol. 262, (2006), 137--159.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408009
abstract: The notion of the Holevo capacity for arbitrarily constrained infinite dimensional quantum channels is introduced. It is shown that despite nonexistence of an optimal ensemble in this case it is possible to define the notion of the output optimal average state for such a channel. The characterization of the output optimal average state and a "minimax" expression for the Holevo capacity are obtained. This makes it possible to prove equivalence of several additivity properties for infinite dimensional quantum channels. The notion of the $\chi$-function for an infinite dimensional channel is considered, its strong concavity and lower semicontinuity are shown. The problem of continuity of the Holevo capacity is also discussed. It is shown that the Holevo capacity is continuous function of a channel in the finite dimensional case while in general it is only lower semicontinuous. This conclusion is confirmed by the example. The main result of this note is the statement that additivity of the Holevo capacity for all finite dimensional channels implies additivity of the Holevo capacity for all infinite dimensional channels with arbitrary constraints. The subadditivity of the $\chi$-function for two infinite dimensional channels with one of them noiseless or entanglement breaking is also proved.

id: quant-ph/0408010
title: Dynamical Casimir effect in a periodically changing domain: A dynamical systems approach
authors: Nikola P. Petrov
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408010
abstract: We study the problem of the behavior of a quantum massless scalar field in the space between two parallel infinite perfectly conducting plates, one of them stationary, the other moving periodically. We reformulate the physical problem into a problem about the asymptotic behavior of the iterates of a map of the circle, and then apply results from theory of dynamical systems to study the properties of the map. Many of the general mathematical properties of maps of the circle translate into properties of the field in the cavity. For example, we give a complete classification of the possible resonances in the system, and show that small enough perturbations do not destroy the resonances. We use some mathematical identities to give transparent physical interpretation of the processes of creation and amplification of the quantum field due to the motion of the boundary and to elucidate the similarities and the differences between the classical and quantum fields in domains with moving boundaries.

id: quant-ph/0408011
title: General implementation of all possible positive-operator-value measurements of single photon polarization states
authors: S. E. Ahnert, M. C. Payne
comments: 5 pages, newer version with minor additions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408011
abstract: Positive Operator Value Measures (POVMs) are the most general class of quantum measurements. We propose a setup in which all possible POVMs of a single photon polarization state (corresponding to all possible sets of two-dimensional Kraus operators) can be implemented easily using linear optics elements. This method makes it possible to experimentally realize any projective orthogonal, projective non-orthogonal or non-projective sets of any number of POVM operators. Furthermore our implementation only requires vacuum ancillas, and is deterministic rather than probabilistic. Thus it realizes every POVM with the correct set of output states. We give the settings required to implement two different well-known non-orthogonal projective POVMs.

id: quant-ph/0408012
title: Dynamical Casimir effect with cylindrical waveguides
authors: P. A. Maia Neto
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408012
abstract: I consider the quantum electromagnetic field in a coaxial cylindrical waveguide, such that the outer cylindrical surface has a time-dependent radius. The field propagates parallel to the axis, inside the annular region between the two cylindrical surfaces. When the mechanical frequency and the thickness of the annular region are small enough, only Transverse Electromagnetic (TEM) photons may be generated by the dynamical Casimir effect. The photon emission rate is calculated in this regime, and compared with the case of parallel plates in the limit of very short distances between the two cylindrical surfaces. The proximity force approximation holds for the transition matrix elements in this limit, but the emission rate scales quadratically with the mechanical frequency, as opposed to the cubic dependence for parallel plates.

id: quant-ph/0408013
title: A quantum algorithm for examining oracles
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, Latex2e; v2: minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408013
abstract: In this paper, we consider a quantum algorithm for solving the following problem: ``Suppose $f$ is a function given as a black box (that is also called an oracle) and $f$ is invariant under some AND-mask. Examine a property of $f$ by querying the oracle.'' We compare the efficiency of our quantum algorithm with that of classical algorithms by evaluating the expected number of queries for each algorithm. We show that our quantum algorithm is more efficient than any classical algorithm in some cases. However, our quantum algorithm does not exhibit an exponential speedup in the size of an input, compared with the best classical algorithm. Our algorithm extracts a global property of $f$ (that is, invariance of $f$) while it neglects local properties of $f$ (that is, outputs of $f$). We can regard our algorithm as an application of Simon's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0408014
title: The Bloch-vector space for N-level systems -- the spherical-coordinate point of view
authors: Gen Kimura, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: REVTeX4, 25 pages, 3 EPS figures, Rewritten with improved explanation; references add
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 12, 207 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408014
abstract: Bloch-vector spaces for $N$-level systems are investigated from the spherical-coordinate point of view in order to understand their geometrical aspects. We show that the maximum radius in each direction, which is due to the construction of the Bloch-vector space, is determined by the minimum eigenvalue of the corresponding observable (orthogonal generator of SU(N)). From this fact, we reveal the dual property of the structure of the Bloch-vector space; if in some direction the space reachs the large sphere (pure state), then in the opposite direction the space can only get to the small sphere, and vice versa. Another application is a parameterization with simple ranges of density operators. We also provide three classes of quantum-state representation based on actual measurements beyond the Bloch vector and discuss their state-spaces.

id: quant-ph/0408015
title: Measurement of Coupling PDC photon sources with single-mode and multimode optical fibers
authors: Stefania Castelletto, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Alan Migdall, Valentina Schettini, Michael Ware
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408015
abstract: We investigate the coupling efficiency of parametric downconversion light (PDC) into single and multi-mode optical fibers as a function of the pump beam diameter, crystal length and walk-off. We outline two different theoretical models for the preparation and collection of either single-mode or multi-mode PDC light (defined by, for instance, multi-mode fibers or apertures, corresponding to bucket detection). Moreover, we define the mode-matching collection efficiency, important for realizing a single-photon source based on PDC output into a well-defined single spatial mode. We also define a multimode collection efficiency that is useful for single-photon detector calibration applications.

id: quant-ph/0408016
title: On the quantum vacuum contribution to the momentum of dielectric media
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408016
abstract: More recently, Feigel has considered the quantum vacuum contribution to the momentum of electromagnetic media. However, in Feigel's treatment he did not take into account the relativistic transformation of the optical constants (electric permittivity and magnetic permeability) of moving media. Here it is shown that the effect arising from such a transformation will also provide a quantum vacuum contribution to the velocity of media, in addition to the one derived by Feigel himself.

id: quant-ph/0408017
title: Angular momentum and the geometrical gauge of localized photon staes
authors: Margaret Hawton, William E. Baylis
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 033816 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408017
abstract: Localized photon states have non-zero angular momentum that varies with the non-unique choice of a transverse basis and is changed by gauge transformations of the geometric vector potential $\mathbf{a}$. The position operator must depend on the choice of gauge, but a complete gauge transformation of a physically distinct state has no observable effects. The potential $\mathbf{a}$ has a Dirac string singularity that is related to an optical vortex of the electric field.

id: quant-ph/0408018
title: Decoherence in collective quantum memories for photons
authors: Claudia Mewes, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408018
abstract: The influence of decoherence on the fidelity of quantum memories for photonic qubits based on dark-state polaritons in atomic ensembles is discussed. It is shown that despite the large entanglement of the collective storage states corresponding to single photons or nonclassical states of light the sensitivity to decoherence does not scale with the number of atoms. This is due to the existence of equivalence classes of storage states corresponding to states with the same number of dark-state polariton excitations but arbitrary excitations in other polariton modes. Several decoherence processes are discussed in detail: single-atom spin-flips and dephasing, atom loss and motion of atoms.

id: quant-ph/0408019
title: Quantum Battle of the Sexes Revisited
authors: Joao Jose de Farias Neto
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408019
abstract: Several quantum versions of the battle of the sexes game are analyzed. Some of them are shown to reproduce the classical game. In some, there are no Nash quantum pure equilibria. In some others, the payoffs are always equal to each other. In others still, all equilibria favor Alice or Bob depending on a phase shift of the initial state of the system. Explicit detailed calculations are for the first time exhibited.

id: quant-ph/0408020
title: Quantum mechanics is about quantum information
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 17 pages, forthcoming in Foundations of Physics Festschrift issue for James Cushing. Revised version: some paragraphs have been added to the final section clarifying the argument, and various minor clarifying remarks have been added throughout the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408020
abstract: I argue that quantum mechanics is fundamentally a theory about the representation and manipulation of information, not a theory about the mechanics of nonclassical waves or particles. The notion of quantum information is to be understood as a new physical primitive -- just as, following Einstein's special theory of relativity, a field is no longer regarded as the physical manifestation of vibrations in a mechanical medium, but recognized as a new physical primitive in its own right.

id: quant-ph/0408021
title: Experimental evidence of high-resolution ghost imaging and ghost diffraction with classical thermal light
authors: Davide Magatti, Fabio Ferri, Alessandra Gatti, Morten Bache, Enrico Brambilla, Luigi A. Lugiato
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. Lett. 94, 183602 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408021
abstract: High-resolution ghost image and ghost diffraction experiments are performed by using a single source of thermal-like speckle light divided by a beam splitter. Passing from the image to the diffraction result solely relies on changing the optical setup in the reference arm, while leaving untouched the object arm. The product of spatial resolutions of the ghost image and ghost diffraction experiments is shown to overcome a limit which was formerly thought to be achievable only with entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0408022
title: Tomographic Characterization of Three-Qubit Pure States with Only Two-Qubit Detectors
authors: D. Cavalcanti, L.M. Cioletti, M.O. Terra Cunha
comments: 3 pages; revtex4; v2: the focus on tomography was emphasized and the experimental procedure detailed; v3: the text was improved in clarity, some mistakes were corrected
journal: Physical Review A 71, 014301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408022
abstract: A tomographic process for three-qubit pure states using only pairwise detections is presented.

id: quant-ph/0408023
title: On the Claim of the Observation of 'Macro-quantum effects' of Magnetic Vector Potential in the Classical Domain
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: Standard LaTeX, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408023
abstract: I present conclusive arguments to show that a recent claim of observation of quantum-like effects of the magnetic vector potential in the classical macrodomain is spurious. The `one dimensional interference patterns' referred to in the paper by R. K. Varma et al (Phys. Lett. A 303 (2002) 114-120) are not due to any quantum-like wave phenomena. The data reported in the paper are not consistent with the interpretation of interference, or with the topology of the Aharonov-Bohm effect. The assertion that they are evidence of A-B like effect in the classical macrodomain is based on inadequate appreciation of basic physical facts regarding classical motion of electrons in magnetic fields, interference phenomena, and the A-B effect.

id: quant-ph/0408024
title: Kerr nonlinear coupler and entanglement
authors: Wieslaw Leonski, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Optics B 6, S37-S42 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408024
abstract: We discuss a model comprising two coupled nonlinear oscillators (Kerr-like nonlinear coupler) with one of them pumped by an external coherent excitation. Applying the method of nonlinear quantum scissors we show that the quantum evolution of the coupler can be closed within a finite set of n-photon Fock states. Moreover, we show that the system is able to generate Bell-like states and, as a consequence, the coupler discussed behaves as a two-qubit system. We also analyze the effects of dissipation on entanglement of formation parametrized by concurrence.

id: quant-ph/0408025
title: Photonic crystals and inhibition of spontaneous emission: an introduction
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Peter L. Knight, Emmanuel Paspalakis
comments: 32 pages, introductory review
journal: Contemporary Physics, Vol. 45, 303 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408025
abstract: In the first part of this introductory review we outline the developments in photonic band gap materials from the physics of photonic band gap formation to the fabrication and potential applications of photonic crystals. We briefly describe the analogies between electron and photon localization, present a simple model of a band structure calculation and describe some of the techniques used for fabricating photonic crystals. Also some applications in the field of photonics and optical circuitry are briefly presented. In the second part, we discuss the consequences for the interaction between an atom and the light field when the former is embedded in photonic crystals of a specific type, exhibiting a specific form of a gap in the density of states. We first briefly review the standard treatment (Weisskopf-Wigner theory) in describing the dynamics of spontaneous emission in free space from first principles, and then proceed by explaining the alterations needed to properly treat the case of a two-level atom embedded in a photonic band gap material.

id: quant-ph/0408026
title: Exploiting the quantum Zeno effect to beat photon loss in linear optical quantum information processors
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri, Hwang Lee, Marian Florescu, Kishore T. Kapale, Ulvi Yurtsever, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408026
abstract: We devise a new technique to enhance transmission of quantum information through linear optical quantum information processors. The idea is based on applying the Quantum Zeno effect to the process of photon absorption. By frequently monitoring the presence of the photon through a QND (quantum non-demolition) measurement the absorption is suppressed. Quantum information is encoded in the polarization degrees of freedom and is therefore not affected by the measurement. Some implementations of the QND measurement are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0408027
title: Thermal noise limitations to force measurements with torsion pendulums: Applications to the measurement of the Casimir force and its thermal correction
authors: S.K. Lamoreaux, W.T. Buttler
comments: one figure, five pages, to be submitted to Phys Rev E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408027
abstract: A general analysis of thermal noise in torsion pendulums is presented. The specific case where the torsion angle is kept fixed by electronic feedback is analyzed. This analysis is applied to a recent experiment that employed a torsion pendulum to measure the Casimir force. The ultimate limit to the distance at which the Casimir force can be measured to high accuracy is discussed, and in particular the prospects for measuring the thermal correction are elaborated upon.

id: quant-ph/0408028
title: Above potential barrier diffusion
authors: A. E. Bernardini, S. De Leo, P. Rotelli
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 19, 2717-2725 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408028
abstract: The stationary phase method is applied to diffusion by a potential barrier for an incoming wave packet with energies greater then the barrier height. It is observed that a direct application leads to paradoxical results. The correct solution, confirmed by numerical calculations is the creation of multiple peaks as a consequence of multiple reflections. Lessons concerning the use of the stationary phase method are drawn.

id: quant-ph/0408029
title: Hilbert's 17th problem and the quantumness of states
authors: J. Korbicz, J.I. Cirac, J. Wehr, M. Lewenstein
comments: minor corrections, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 153601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408029
abstract: A state of a quantum systems can be regarded as {\it classical} ({\it quantum}) with respect to measurements of a set of canonical observables iff there exists (does not exist) a well defined, positive phase space distribution, the so called Galuber-Sudarshan $P$-representation. We derive a family of classicality criteria that require that averages of positive functions calculated using $P$-representation must be positive. For polynomial functions, these criteria are related to 17-th Hilbert's problem, and have physical meaning of generalized squeezing conditions; alternatively, they may be interpreted as {\it non-classicality witnesses}. We show that every generic non-classical state can be detected by a polynomial that is a sum of squares of other polynomials (sos). We introduce a very natural hierarchy of states regarding their degree of quantumness, which we relate to the minimal degree of a sos polynomial that detects them is introduced. Polynomial non-classicality witnesses can be directly measured.

id: quant-ph/0408030
title: Quantum entanglement of a large number of photons
authors: H. S. Eisenberg, G. Khoury, G. A. Durkin, C. Simon, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol 93, 193901 (4 November 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408030
abstract: A bipartite multiphoton entangled state is created through stimulated parametric down-conversion of strong laser pulses in a nonlinear crystal. It is shown how detectors that do not resolve photon number can be used to analyze such multiphoton states. Entanglement of up to 12 photons is detected using both the positivity of the partially transposed density matrix and a newly derived criteria. Furthermore, evidence is provided for entanglement of up to 100 photons. The multi-particle quantum state is such that even in the case of an overall photon collection and detection efficiency as low as a few percent, entanglement remains and can be detected.

id: quant-ph/0408031
title: Stability of Phase-modulated Quantum Key Distribution System
authors: Zheng-Fu Han, Xiao-Fan Mo, You-Zhen Gui, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 9 pages, 3 figues
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. l86, 221103 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408031
abstract: Phase drift and random fluctuation of interference visibility in double unbalanced M-Z QKD system are observed and distinguished. It has been found that the interference visibilities are influenced deeply by the disturbance of transmission fiber. Theory analysis shows that the fluctuation is derived from the envioronmental disturbance on polarization characteristic of fiber, especially including transmission fiber. Finally, stability conditions of one-way anti-disturbed M-Z QKD system are given out, which provides a theoretical guide in pragmatic anti-disturbed QKD.

id: quant-ph/0408032
title: Generation of polarization entangled photon pairs and violation of Bell's inequality using spontaneous four-wave mixing in fiber loop
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Kyo Inoue
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, presented at The Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing (QCMC 2004)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 031802(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408032
abstract: We report the generation of polarization entangled photon pairs in the 1550-nm wavelength band using spontaneous four-wave mixing in a dispersion-shifted fiber loop. The use of the fiber-loop configuration made it possible to generate polarization entangled states very stably. With accidental coincidences subtracted, we obtained coincidence fringes with >90 % visibilities, and observed a violation of Bell's inequality by seven standard deviations. We also confirmed the preservation of the quantum correlation between the photons even after they had been separated by 20 km of optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0408033
title: Realizing Quantum Controlled Phase Flip through Cavity-QED
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Xiu-Min Lin, Jie Gao, Yong Yang, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 70, 042314 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408033
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize quantum controlled phase flip (CPF) between two rare earth ions embedded in respective microsphere cavity via interacting with a single-photon pulse in sequence. The numerical simulations illuminate that the CPF gate between ions is robust and scalable with extremely high fidelity and low error rate. Our scheme is more applicable than other schemes presented before based on current laboratory cavity-QED technology, and it is possible to be used as an applied unit gate in future quantum computation and quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0408034
title: On The Possibilities For Superluminal Signalling
authors: Alex Malikotsinas
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408034
abstract: This paper shall define and discuss two types of quantum process - Disentangling and Entangling. The first type will be shown to contradict Unitarity and is therefore ruled out as a possible signalling process within standard linear Quantum Mechanics. The paper will argue that the second type - the entangling process - is both allowed by the principles of Quantum Mechanics, and can transmit superluminal signals. A proposal will be made for addressing the objection to superluminal signalling by the Special Theory of Relativity.

id: quant-ph/0408035
title: Quantum Computing and Hidden Variables I: Mapping Unitary to Stochastic Matrices
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. Together with a companion paper to appear, subsumes the earlier paper "Quantum Computing and Dynamical Quantum Models" (quant-ph/0205059)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408035
abstract: This paper initiates the study of hidden variables from the discrete, abstract perspective of quantum computing. For us, a hidden-variable theory is simply a way to convert a unitary matrix that maps one quantum state to another, into a stochastic matrix that maps the initial probability distribution to the final one in some fixed basis. We list seven axioms that we might want such a theory to satisfy, and then investigate which of the axioms can be satisfied simultaneously. Toward this end, we construct a new hidden-variable theory that is both robust to small perturbations and indifferent to the identity operation, by exploiting an unexpected connection between unitary matrices and network flows. We also analyze previous hidden-variable theories of Dieks and Schrodinger in terms of our axioms. In a companion paper, we will show that actually sampling the history of a hidden variable under reasonable axioms is at least as hard as solving the Graph Isomorphism problem; and indeed is probably intractable even for quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0408036
title: Quantum Hamilton - Jacobi soluton for spectra of several one dimensional potentials with special properties
authors: S. Sree Ranjani
comments: Thesis submitted to the University of Hyderabad (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408036
abstract: In this thesis the quantum Hamilton - Jacobi (QHJ) formalism is used for (i) potentials which exhibit different spectra for different ranges of the potential parameters, (ii) exactly solvable (ES) periodic potentials (iii) quasi - exactly solvable (QES) periodic potentials and (iv) the PT symmetric potentials (ES and QES). The QHJ formalism provides a simple and elegant method to obtain the bound state and the band edge eigenvalues and the eigenfunctions. For this purpose, a simple conjecture on the singularities of the logarithmic derivative of the wave function in the complex plane is made and used in a straight forward fashion to obtain the desired results.

id: quant-ph/0408037
title: Energetic Suppression of Decoherence in Exchange-Only Quantum Computation
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 022319 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408037
abstract: Universal quantum computation requiring only the Heisenberg exchange interaction and suppressing decoherence via an energy gap is presented. The combination of an always-on exchange interaction between the three physical qubits comprising the encoded qubit and a global magnetic field generates an energy gap between the subspace of interest and all other states. This energy gap suppresses decoherence. Always-on exchange couplings greatly simplify hardware specifications and the implementation of inter-logical-qubit gates. A controlled phase gate can be implemented using only three Heisenberg exchange operations all of which can be performed simultaneously.

id: quant-ph/0408038
title: Nonclassicality in Weak Measurements
authors: Lars M. Johansen, Alfredo Luis
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 052115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408038
abstract: We examine weak measurements of arbitrary observables where the object is prepared in a mixed state and on which measurements with imperfect detectors are made. The weak value of an observable can be expressed as a conditional expectation value over an infinite class of different generalized Kirkwood quasi-probability distributions. "Strange" weak values for which the real part exceeds the eigenvalue spectrum of the observable can only be found if the Terletsky-Margenau-Hill distribution is negative, or, equivalently, if the real part of the weak value of the density operator is negative. We find that a classical model of a weak measurement exists whenever the Terletsky-Margenau-Hill representation of the observable equals the classical representation of the observable and the Terletsky-Margenau-Hill distribution is nonnegative. Strange weak values alone are not sufficient to obtain a contradiction with classical models. We propose feasible weak measurements of photon number of the radiation field. Negative weak values of energy contradicts all classical stochastic models, whereas negative weak values of photon number contradict all classical stochastic models where the energy is bounded from below by the zero-point energy. We examine coherent states in particular, and find negative weak values with probabilities of 16% for kinetic energy (or squared field quadrature), 8% for harmonic oscillator energy and 50% for photon number. These experiments are robust against detector inefficiency and thermal noise.

id: quant-ph/0408039
title: Comment on ``All quantum observables in a hidden-variable model must commute simultaneously"
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 066101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408039
abstract: Malley discussed {[Phys. Rev. A {\bf 69}, 022118 (2004)]} that all quantum observables in a hidden-variable model for quantum events must commute simultaneously. In this comment, we discuss that Malley's theorem is indeed valid for the hidden-variable theoretical assumptions, which were introduced by Kochen and Specker. However, we give an example that the local hidden-variable (LHV) model for quantum events preserves noncommutativity of quantum observables. It turns out that Malley's theorem is not related with the LHV model for quantum events, in general.

id: quant-ph/0408040
title: Efficient high-fidelity quantum computation using matter qubits and linear optics
authors: Sean D. Barrett, Pieter Kok
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, broader introduction and improved scalability of cluster state generation
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 71, 060310(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408040
abstract: We propose a practical, scalable, and efficient scheme for quantum computation using spatially separated matter qubits and single photon interference effects. The qubit systems can be NV-centers in diamond, Pauli-blockade quantum dots with an excess electron or trapped ions with optical transitions, which are each placed in a cavity and subsequently entangled using a double-heralded single-photon detection scheme. The fidelity of the resulting entanglement is extremely robust against the most important errors such as detector loss, spontaneous emission, and mismatch of cavity parameters. We demonstrate how this entangling operation can be used to efficiently generate cluster states of many qubits, which, together with single qubit operations and readout, can be used to implement universal quantum computation. Existing experimental parameters indicate that high fidelity clusters can be generated with a moderate constant overhead.

id: quant-ph/0408041
title: An Optical Approach to the Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Pawel Wegrzyn
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39, 4895-4903 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408041
abstract: We recently proposed a new approach to analyze the parametric resonance in a vibrating cavity based on the analysis of classical optical paths. This approach is used to examine various models of cavities with moving walls. We prove that our method is useful to extract easily basic physical outcome.

id: quant-ph/0408042
title: Tunnelling Through Two Barriers
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408042
abstract: Recent studies of the tunnelling through two opaque barriers claim that the transit time is independent of the barrier widths and of the separation distance between the barriers. We observe, in contrast, that if multiple reflections are allowed for correctly (infinite peaks) the transit time between the barriers appears exactly as expected.

id: quant-ph/0408043
title: Repeat-Until-Success Quantum Computing
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, v3: substantially revised, v4: typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 030505 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408043
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility to perform distributed quantum computing using only single photon sources (atom-cavity-like systems), linear optics and photon detectors. The qubits are encoded in stable ground states of the sources. To implement a universal two-qubit gate, two photons should be generated simultaneously and pass through a linear optics network, where a measurement is performed on them. Gate operations can be repeated until a success is heralded without destroying the qubits at any stage of the operation. In contrast to other schemes, this does not require explicit qubit-qubit interactions, a priori entangled ancillas nor the feeding of photons into photon sources.

id: quant-ph/0408044
title: Light slowdown in the vicinity of cross-over resonances
authors: M. Perdian, A. Raczynski, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408044
abstract: Pulse propagation is considered in an inhomogeneously broadened medium of three-level atoms in a V-configuration, dressed by a counter-propagating pump pulse. A significant signal slowdown is demonstrated in this of the three frequency windows of a reduced absorption and a steep normal dispersion, which is due to a cross-over resonance. Particular properties of the group index in the vicinity of such a resonance are demonstrated in the case of closely spaced upper levels.

id: quant-ph/0408045
title: Efficient state preparation for a register of quantum bits
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures, extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408045
abstract: We describe a quantum algorithm to prepare an arbitrary pure state of a register of a quantum computer with fidelity arbitrarily close to 1. Our algorithm is based on Grover's quantum search algorithm. For sequences of states with suitably bounded amplitudes, the algorithm requires resources that are polynomial in the number of qubits. Such sequences of states occur naturally in the problem of encoding a classical probability distribution in a quantum register.

id: quant-ph/0408046
title: Slow-light solitons
authors: Ulf Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408046
abstract: A new type of soliton with controllable speed is constructed generalizing the theory of slow-light propagation to an integrable regime of nonlinear dynamics. The scheme would allow the quantum-information transfer between optical solitons and atomic media.

id: quant-ph/0408047
title: Witnessing Entanglement with Second-Order Interference
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Krzysztof W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032304, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408047
abstract: Second-order interference and Hanbury-Brown and Twiss type experiments can provide an operational framework for the construction of witness operators that can test classical and nonclassical properties of a Gaussian squeezed state (GSS), and provide entanglement witness operators to study the separability properties of correlated Gaussian squeezed sates.

id: quant-ph/0408048
title: Construction of exact solutions of Bloch-Maxwell equation based on Darboux transformation
authors: Maciej Kuna
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408048
abstract: A new strategy, using Darboux transformations, of finding self-switching solutions of $i\dot{\rho} = [H, f({\rho})]$ is introduced. Unlike the previous ones, working for any f but for Hamiltonians whose spectrum contains at least three equally spaced eigenvalues, the strategy does not impose any restriction on the discrete part of the spectrum of H. The strategy is applied to the Bloch-Maxwell system.

id: quant-ph/0408049
title: Analytic results for Gaussian wave packets in four model systems: I. Visualization of the kinetic energy
authors: R. W. Robinett, L. C. Bassett
comments: 22 pages, RevTeX, four .eps figures, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett. Vol. 17, Dec. 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408049
abstract: Using Gaussian wave packet solutions, we examine how the kinetic energy is distributed in time-dependent solutions of the Schrodinger equation corresponding to the cases of a free particle, a particle undergoing uniform acceleration, a particle in a harmonic oscillator potential, and a system corresponding to an unstable equilibrium. We find, for specific choices of initial parameters, that as much as 90% of the kinetic energy can be localized (at least conceptually) in the `front half' of such Gaussian wave packets, and we visualize these effects.

id: quant-ph/0408050
title: Analytic results for Gaussian wave packets in four model systems: II. Autocorrelation functions
authors: R. W. Robinett, L. C. Bassett
comments: 18 pages, RevTeX, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett, Vol. 17, Dec. 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408050
abstract: The autocorrelation function, A(t), measures the overlap (in Hilbert space) of a time-dependent quantum mechanical wave function, psi(x,t), with its initial value, psi(x,0). It finds extensive use in the theoretical analysis and experimental measurement of such phenomena as quantum wave packet revivals. We evaluate explicit expressions for the autocorrelation function for time-dependent Gaussian solutions of the Schrodinger equation corresponding to the cases of a free particle, a particle undergoing uniform acceleration, a particle in a harmonic oscillator potential, and a system corresponding to an unstable equilibrium (the so-called `inverted' oscillator.) We emphasize the importance of momentum-space methods where such calculations are often more straightforwardly realized, as well as stressing their role in providing complementary information to results obtained using position-space wavefunctions.

id: quant-ph/0408051
title: Alternative Perspective on Quantum Tunneling and Instantons
authors: F. Paradis, H. Kroger, G. Melkonyan, K.J.M. Moriarty
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A71 (2005) 022106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408051
abstract: We present a new way to compute and interpret quantum tunneling in a 1-D double-well potential. For large transition time we show that the quantum action functional gives an analytical expression for tunneling amplitudes. This has been confirmed by numerical simulations giving relative errors in the order of 1e-5. In contrast to the classical potential, the quantum potential has a triple-well if the classical wells are deep enough. Its minima are located at the position of extrema of the ground state wave function. The striking feature is that a single trajectory with a double instanton reproduces the tunneling amplitude. This is in contrast to the standard instanton approach, where infinitely many instantons and anti-instatons have to be taken into account. The quantum action functional is valid in the deep quantum regime in contrast to the semi-classical regime where the standard instanton approach holds. We compare both approaches via numerical simulations. While the standard instanton picture describes only the transition between potential minima of equal depth, the quantum action may give rise to instantons also for asymmetric potential minima. Such case is illustrated by an example.

id: quant-ph/0408052
title: Recasting Mermin's multi-player game into the framework of pseudo-telepathy
authors: Gilles Brassard, Anne Broadbent, Alain Tapp
comments: 18 pages, no figures. References added and updated, typos corrected
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Volume 5, Number 7, Pages 538-550, November 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408052
abstract: Entanglement is perhaps the most non-classical manifestation of quantum mechanics. Among its many interesting applications to information processing, it can be harnessed to reduce the amount of communication required to process a variety of distributed computational tasks. Can it be used to eliminate communication altogether? Even though it cannot serve to signal information between remote parties, there are distributed tasks that can be performed without any need for communication, provided the parties share prior entanglement: this is the realm of pseudo-telepathy. One of the earliest uses of multi-party entanglement was presented by Mermin in 1990. Here we recast his idea in terms of pseudo-telepathy: we provide a new computer-scientist-friendly analysis of this game. We prove an upper bound on the best possible classical strategy for attempting to play this game, as well as a novel, matching lower bound. This leads us to considerations on how well imperfect quantum-mechanical apparatus must perform in order to exhibit a behaviour that would be classically impossible to explain. Our results include improved bounds that could help vanquish the infamous detection loophole.

id: quant-ph/0408053
title: Contractive Entanglement in Squeezed State Evolution
authors: R. W. Rendell, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408053
abstract: The position variance of a single-mode Yuen states can go below the standard quantum limit. For two-mode squeezed states, it is shown that the time-dependent evolution of the entanglement of formation can be contractive, going below that of the squeezed state with minimum Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen dispersions, and increasing thereafter. The rate of change of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen dispersions as a function of the two-mode phases control this process. Contractive entanglement is shown to be equivalent to a rotating phase space accompanied by time-dependent single-mode squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0408054
title: Atom-field transfer of coherence in a two-photon micromaser assisted by a classical field
authors: A.F. Gomes, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, LaTex
journal: Applied Mathematics & Information Sciences, 8, 727 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408054
abstract: We investigate the transfer of coherence from atoms to a cavity field initially in a statistical mixture in a two-photon micromaser arrangement. The field is progressively modified from a maximum entropy state (thermal state) towards an almost pure state (entropy close to zero) due to its interaction with atoms sent across the cavity. We trace over the atomic variables, i.e., the atomic states are not collapsed by a detector after they leave the cavity. We find that by applying an external classical driving field it is possible to substantially increase the field purity without the need of previously preparing the atoms in a superposition of their energy eigenstates. We also discuss some of the nonclassical features of the resulting field.

id: quant-ph/0408055
title: Revised Iterative Solution of Ground State of Double-Well Potential
authors: Zhao Wei-Qin
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408055
abstract: A revised new iterative method based on Green function defined by quadratures along a single trajectory is developed and applied to solve the ground state of the double-well potential. The result is compared to the one based on the original iterative method. The limitation of the asymptotic expansion is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0408056
title: On the Generalized Dirac Equation for Fermions with Two Mass States
authors: S. I. Kruglov
comments: 12 pages, typos corrected
journal: AnnalesFond.Broglie29:1005-1016,2004; Erratum-ibid.31:489,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408056
abstract: The generalized Dirac equation of the second order, describing particles with spin 1/2 and two mass states, is analyzed. The projection operators extracting states with definite energy and spin projections are obtained. The first order generalized Dirac equation in the 20-dimensional matrix form and the relativistically invariant bilinear form are derived. We obtain the canonical energy-momentum tensor and density of the electromagnetic current expressed through the 20-component wave function. Minimal and non-minimal electromagnetic interactions of fermions are considered, and the quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian is found. It is shown that there are only causal propagations of waves in the approach considered.

id: quant-ph/0408057
title: Solid-State Quantum Communication With Josephson Arrays
authors: Alessandro Romito, Rosario Fazio, C. Bruder
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 100501(R) (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408057
abstract: Josephson junction arrays can be used as quantum channels to transfer quantum information between distant sites. In this work we discuss simple protocols to realize state transfer with high fidelity. The channels do not require complicate gating but use the natural dynamics of a properly designed array. We investigate the influence of static disorder both in the Josephson energies and in the coupling to the background gate charges, as well as the effect of dynamical noise. We also analyze the readout process, and its backaction on the state transfer.

id: quant-ph/0408058
title: Probabilities are single-case, or nothing
authors: D. M. Appleby
comments: 16 pages. Invited talk at 10th International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk 2004
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy, 99, 447 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408058
abstract: Physicists have, hitherto, mostly adopted a frequentist conception of probability, according to which probability statements apply only to ensembles. It is argued that we should, instead, adopt an epistemic, or Bayesian conception, in which probabilities are conceived as logical constructs rather than physical realities, and in which probability statements do apply directly to individual events. The question is closely related to the disagreement between the orthodox school of statistical thought and the Bayesian school. It has important technical implications (it makes a difference, what statistical methodology one adopts). It may also have important implications for the interpretation of the quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0408059
title: Detection of vacuum entanglement in a linear ion trap
authors: A. Retzker, J.I. Cirac, B. Reznik
comments: 4 pages 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 050504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408059
abstract: We propose and study a method for detecting ground-state entanglement in a chain of trapped ions, which realizes a suggested scheme for detecting vacuum entanglement in quantum field theory. We show that the entanglement between single ions or groups of ions can be swapped to the internal levels of two ions by sending laser pulses that couple the internal and motional degrees of freedom. This allows to entangle two ions without actually doing gates. A proof of principle of the effect can be realized with two trapped ions and is feasible with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0408060
title: Entanglement within the Quantum Trajectory Description of Open Quantum Systems
authors: Hyunchul Nha, H. J. Carmichael
comments: Published version (minor corrections)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 93, 120408 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408060
abstract: The degree of entanglement in an open quantum system varies according to how information in the environment is read. A measure of this contextual entanglement is introduced based on quantum trajectory unravelings of the open system dynamics. It is used to characterize the entanglement in a driven quantum system of dimension $2\times\infty$ where the entanglement is induced by the environmental interaction. A detailed mechanism for the environment-induced entanglement is given.

id: quant-ph/0408061
title: Potential Harmonics Expansion Method for Trapped Interacting Bosons : Inclusion of Two-Body Correlation
authors: T.K. Das, B. Chakrabarti
comments: 36 pages, 7 included figures, plain latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408061
abstract: We study a system of $A$ identical interacting bosons trapped by an external field by solving ab initio the many-body Schroedinger equation. A complete solution by using, for example, the traditional hyperspherical harmonics (HH) basis develops serious problems due to the large degeneracy of HH basis, symmetrization of the wave function, calculation of the matrix elements, etc. for large $A$. Instead of the HH basis, here we use the "potential harmonics" (PH) basis, which is a subset of HH basis. We assume that the contribution to the orbital and grand orbital [in $3(A-1)$-dimensional space of the reduced motion] quantum numbers comes only from the interacting pair. This implies inclusion of two-body correlations only and disregard of all higher-body correlations. Such an assumption is ideally suited for the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), which is extremely dilute. Unlike the $(3A-4)$ hyperspherical variables in HH basis, the PH basis involves only three {\it{active}} variables. It drastically reduces the number of coupled equations and calculation of the potential matrix becomes tremendously simplified, as it involves integrals over only three variables for any $A$. One can easily incorporate realistic atom-atom interactions in a straight forward manner. We study the ground and excited state properties of the condensate for both attractive and repulsive interactions for various particle number.

id: quant-ph/0408062
title: Effects of the interplay between interaction and disorder in bipartite entanglement
authors: L. F. Santos, G. Rigolin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, RevTex, Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032321 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408062
abstract: We use a disordered anti-ferromagnetic spin-1/2 chain with anisotropic exchange coupling to model an array of interacting qubits. All qubits have the same level spacing, except two, which are called the defects of the chain. The level spacings of the defects are equal and much larger than all the others. We investigate how the entanglement between the two defects depends on the anisotropy of the system. When the anisotropy coupling is much larger than the energy difference between a defect and an ordinary qubit, the two defects become strongly entangled. Small anisotropies, on the contrary, may decrease the entanglement, which is, in this case, also much affected by the number of excitations. The analysis is made for nearest neighbor and next-nearest neighbor defects. The decrease in the entanglement for nearest neighbor defects is not very significant, especially in large chains.

id: quant-ph/0408063
title: Distance measures to compare real and ideal quantum processes
authors: Alexei Gilchrist, Nathan K. Langford, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 15 pages; this version in line with published version
journal: Physical Review A 71, 062310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408063
abstract: With growing success in experimental implementations it is critical to identify a "gold standard" for quantum information processing, a single measure of distance that can be used to compare and contrast different experiments. We enumerate a set of criteria such a distance measure must satisfy to be both experimentally and theoretically meaningful. We then assess a wide range of possible measures against these criteria, before making a recommendation as to the best measures to use in characterizing quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0408064
title: High-Fidelity Z-Measurement Error Correction of Optical Qubits
authors: J. L. O'Brien, G. J. Pryde, A. G. White, T. C. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys.Rev.A71:060303,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408064
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum error correction scheme that protects against accidental measurement, using an encoding where the logical state of a single qubit is encoded into two physical qubits using a non-deterministic photonic CNOT gate. For the single qubit input states |0>, |1>, |0>+|1>, |0>-|1>, |0>+i|1>, and |0>-i|1> our encoder produces the appropriate 2-qubit encoded state with an average fidelity of 0.88(3) and the single qubit decoded states have an average fidelity of 0.93(5) with the original state. We are able to decode the 2-qubit state (up to a bit flip) by performing a measurement on one of the qubits in the logical basis; we find that the 64 1-qubit decoded states arising from 16 real and imaginary single qubit superposition inputs have an average fidelity of 0.96(3).

id: quant-ph/0408065
title: On v^2/c^2 expansion of the Dirac equation with external potentials
authors: Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408065
abstract: The v^2/c^2 expansion of the Dirac equation with external potentials is reexamined. A complete, gauge invariant form of the expansion to order (1/c)^2 is established which contains two additional terms, as compared to various versions existing in the literature. It is shown that the additional terms describe relativistic decrease of the electron spin magnetic moment with increasing electron energy.

id: quant-ph/0408066
title: Radiative corrections and quantum gates in molecular systems
authors: John H. Reina, Ray G. Beausoleil, Tim P. Spiller, William J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Updated to correct important missing reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 250501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408066
abstract: We propose a method for quantum information processing using molecules coupled to an external laser field. This utilizes molecular interactions, control of the external field and an effective energy shift of the doubly-excited state of two coupled molecules. Such a level shift has been seen in the two-photon resonance experiments recently reported in Ref. [1]. Here we show that this can be explained in terms of the QED Lamb shift. We quantify the performance of the proposed quantum logic gates in the presence of dissipative mechanisms. The unitary transformations required for performing one- and two-qubit operations can be implemented with present day technology.

id: quant-ph/0408067
title: Space-to-ground quantum-communication using an optical ground station: a feasibility study
authors: P. Villoresi, F. Tamburini, M. Aspelmeyer, T. Jennewein, R. Ursin, C. Pernechele, G. Bianco, A. Zeilinger, C. Barbieri
comments: 8 pages 5 figures, SPIE proceedings Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging II conference in Denver, July 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408067
abstract: We have tested the experimental prerequisites for a Space-to-Ground quantum communication link between satellites and an optical ground station. The feasibility of our ideas is being assessed using the facilities of the ASI Matera Laser Ranging Observatory (MLRO). Specific emphasis is put on the necessary technological modifications of the existing infrastructure to achieve single photon reception from an orbiting satellite.

id: quant-ph/0408068
title: Logical Interpretation of a Reversible Measurement in Quantum Computing
authors: Giulia Battilotti, Paola Zizzi
comments: 20 pages,6 figures,LaTeX version, minor changes, references updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408068
abstract: We give the logical description of a new kind of quantum measurement that is a reversible operation performed by an hypothetical insider observer, or, which is the same, a quantum measurement made in a quantum space background, like the fuzzy sphere. The result is that the non-contradiction and the excluded middle principles are both invalidated, leading to a paraconsistent, symmetric logic. Our conjecture is that, in this setting, one can develop the adequate logic of quantum computing. The role of standard quantum logic is then confined to describe the projective measurement scheme.

id: quant-ph/0408069
title: On Estimating the State of a Finite Level Quantum System
authors: K. R. Parthasarathy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408069
abstract: We revisit the problem of mutually unbiased measurements in the context of estimating the unknown state of a $d$-level quantum system, first studied by W. K. Wootters and B. D. fields[7] in 1989 and later investigated by S. Bandyopadhyay et al [3] in 2001 and A. O. Pittenger and M. H. Rubin [6] in 2003. Our approach is based directly on the Weyl operators in the $L^2$-space over a finite field when $d=p^r$ is the power of a prime. When $d$ is not a prime power we sacrifice a bit of optimality and construct a recovery operator for reconstructing the unknown state from the probabilities of elementary events in different measurements.

id: quant-ph/0408070
title: Quantum games with decoherence
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Derek Abbott
comments: LaTeX (iopart), 12 pages, 6 figures; v2 minor corrections and additional references in light of referees comments
journal: J. Phys. A 38 (2005) 449-59
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408070
abstract: A protocol for considering decoherence in quantum games is presented. Results for two-player, two-strategy quantum games subject to decoherence are derived and some specific examples are given. Decoherence in other types of quantum games is also considered. As expected, the advantage that a quantum player achieves over a player restricted to classical strategies is diminished for increasing decoherence but only vanishes in the limit of maximum decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0408071
title: Wave packet dynamics of the matter wave field of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: C. Sudheesh, S. Lakshmibala, V. Balakrishnan
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Europhys. Lett., 71 (5), pp. 744-750 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408071
abstract: We show in the framework of a tractable model that revivals and fractional revivals of wave packets afford clear signatures of the extent of departure from coherence and from Poisson statistics of the matter wave field in a Bose-Einstein condensate, or of a suitably chosen initial state of the radiation field propagating in a Kerr-like medium.

id: quant-ph/0408072
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Nonlocality in Arbitrary Even Dimensions
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, Seung-Woo Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: slightly revised and final version published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408072
abstract: We generalize Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) nonlocality to every even-dimensional and odd-partite system. For the purpose we employ concurrent observables that are incompatible and nevertheless have a common eigenstate. It is remarkable that a tripartite system can exhibit the genuinely high-dimensional GHZ nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0408073
title: Spontaneous Relaxation of a Charge Qubit under Electrical Measurement
authors: Xin-Qi Li, Ping Cui, YiJing Yan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; an error in Eq.(8) is corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 066803 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408073
abstract: In this work we first derive a generalized conditional master equation for quantum measurement by a mesoscopic detector, then study the readout characteristics of qubit measurement where a number of new features are found. The work would in particular highlight the qubit spontaneous relaxation effect induced by the measurement itself rather than an external thermal bath.

id: quant-ph/0408074
title: Tightening the Theory-Experiment Connection in Physics: R_{n} based Space and Time
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: Submitted to Special Issue, Internation Journal of Quantum Information, Conference Proceedings, Foundations of Quantum Information, April 16-19, 2004, Camerino,Italy
journal: Int. Jour. Quant. Inf. 3, 1-8 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408074
abstract: Some aspects of replacing C based physics by C_{n} based physics are discussed. Here C_{n} ={R_{n},I_{n}} where R_{n} and I_{n} are the real and imaginary components of the numbers in C_{n}, and both R_{n} and I_{n}) are sets of length 2n string numbers in some basis. The discussion here is limited to describing the experimental basis and choice for the numbers in R_{n}, and a few basic but interesting properties of R_{n} based space and time.

id: quant-ph/0408075
title: Casimir force acting on magnetodielectric bodies embedded in media
authors: Christian Raabe, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures; minor additions and corrections, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408075
abstract: Within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, general expressions for the Casimir force acting on linearly and causally responding magnetodielectric bodies that can be embedded in another linear and causal magnetodielectric medium are derived. Consistency with microscopic harmonic-oscillator models of the matter is shown. The theory is applied to planar structures and proper generalizations of Casimir's and Lifshitz-type formulas are given.

id: quant-ph/0408076
title: Classical simulatability, entanglement breaking, and quantum computation thresholds
authors: S. Virmani, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. v2: small typos changed, no change to results
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 71, 042328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408076
abstract: We investigate the amount of noise required to turn a universal quantum gate set into one that can be efficiently modelled classically. This question is useful for providing upper bounds on fault tolerant thresholds, and for understanding the nature of the quantum/classical computational transition. We refine some previously known upper bounds using two different strategies. The first one involves the introduction of bi-entangling operations, a class of classically simulatable machines that can generate at most bipartite entanglement. Using this class we show that it is possible to sharpen previously obtained upper bounds in certain cases. As an example, we show that under depolarizing noise on the controlled-not gate, the previously known upper bound of 74% can be sharpened to around 67%. Another interesting consequence is that measurement based schemes cannot work using only 2-qubit non-degenerate projections. In the second strand of the work we utilize the Gottesman-Knill theorem on the classically efficient simulation of Clifford group operations. The bounds attained for the pi/8 gate using this approach can be as low as 15% for general single gate noise, and 30% for dephasing noise.

id: quant-ph/0408077
title: Ground State Entanglement in a Combination of Star And Ring Geometries Of Interacting Spins
authors: A. Hutton, S. Bose
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408077
abstract: We compare a star and a ring network of interacting spins in terms of the entanglement they can provide between the nearest and the next to nearest neighbor spins in the ground state. We then investigate whether this entanglement can be optimized by allowing the system to interact through a weighted combination of the star and the ring geometries. We find that such a weighted combination is indeed optimal in certain circumstances for providing the highest entanglement between two chosen spins. The entanglement shows jumps and counterintuitive behavior as the relative weighting of the star and the ring interactions is varied. We give an exact mathematical explanation of the behavior for a five qubit system (four spins in a ring and a central spin) and an intuitive explanation for larger systems. For the case of four spins in a ring plus a central spin, we demonstrate how a four qubit GHZ state can be generated as a simple derivative of the ground state. Our calculations also demonstrate that some of the multi-particle entangled states derivable from the ground state of a star network are sufficiently robust to the presence of nearest neighbor ring interactions.

id: quant-ph/0408078
title: Efficient Decoupling Schemes Based on Hamilton Cycles
authors: Martin Roetteler
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, uses revtex 4
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 49:042106, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408078
abstract: Decoupling the interactions in a spin network governed by a pair-interaction Hamiltonian is a well-studied problem. Combinatorial schemes for decoupling and for manipulating the couplings of Hamiltonians have been developed which use selective pulses. In this paper we consider an additional requirement on these pulse sequences: as few {\em different} control operations as possible should be used. This requirement is motivated by the fact that optimizing each individual selective pulse will be expensive, i. e., it is desirable to use as few different selective pulses as possible. For an arbitrary $d$-dimensional system we show that the ability to implement only two control operations is sufficient to turn off the time evolution. In case of a bipartite system with local control we show that four different control operations are sufficient. Turning to networks consisting of several $d$-dimensional nodes which are governed by a pair-interaction Hamiltonian, we show that decoupling can be achieved if one is able to control a number of different control operations which is logarithmic in the number of nodes.

id: quant-ph/0408079
title: Distinctness of ensembles having the same density matrix and the nature of liquid NMR quantum computing
authors: Gui-Lu Long, Yi-Fan Zhou, Jia-Qi Jin, Yang Sun
comments: One typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408079
abstract: We show that differently constructed ensembles having the same density matrix may be physically distinguished by observing fluctuations of some observables. An explicit expression for fluctuations of an observable in an ensemble is given. This result challenges Peres's fundamental postulate and seems to be contrary to the widely-spread belief that ensembles with the same density matrix are physically identical. This leads us to suggest that the current liquid NMR quantum computing is truly quantum-mechanical in nature.

id: quant-ph/0408080
title: Classical Robustness of Quantum Unravellings
authors: D.J. Atkins, Z. Brady, K.Jacobs, H.M.Wiseman
comments: 8 Pages, 2 figures, Version 2. Minor changes to wording for clarification and some references added. Accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 69, 163 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408080
abstract: We introduce three measures which quantify the degree to which quantum systems possess the robustness exhibited by classical systems when subjected to continuous observation. Using these we show that for a fixed environmental interaction the level of robustness depends on the measurement strategy, or unravelling, and that no single strategy is maximally robust in all ways.

id: quant-ph/0408081
title: Robustness of Shor's algorithm
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Austin G. Fowler, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 14 Pages, 14 Figures (LaTeX):
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 6, 616-629 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408081
abstract: Shor's factorisation algorithm is a combination of classical pre- and post-processing and a quantum period finding (QPF) subroutine which allows an exponential speed up over classical factoring algorithms. We consider the stability of this subroutine when exposed to a discrete error model that acts to perturb the computational trajectory of a quantum computer. Through detailed state vector simulations of an appropriate quantum circuit, we show that the error locations within the circuit itself heavily influences the probability of success of the QPF subroutine. The results also indicate that the naive estimate of required component precision is too conservative.

id: quant-ph/0408082
title: Wootters' distance revisited: a new distinguishability criterium
authors: A. P. Majtey, P. W. Lamberti, M. T. Martin, A. Plastino
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, changed content, added reference for last section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408082
abstract: The notion of distinguishability between quantum states has shown to be fundamental in the frame of quantum information theory. In this paper we present a new distinguishability criterium by using a information theoretic quantity: the Jensen-Shannon divergence (JSD). This quantity has several interesting properties, both from a conceptual and a formal point of view. Previous to define this distinguishability criterium, we review some of the most frequently used distances defined over quantum mechanics' Hilbert space. In this point our main claim is that the JSD can be taken as a unifying distance between quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0408083
title: Coherence measurements on Rydberg wave packets kicked by a half-cycle pulse
authors: J. M. Murray, S. N. Pisharody, H. Wen, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures (5 figure files)
journal: J. M. Murray, S. N. Pisharody, H. Wen, P. H. Bucksbaum, Phys. Rev. A 71, 023408 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408083
abstract: A kick from a unipolar half-cycle pulse (HCP) can redistribute population and shift the relative phase between states in a radial Rydberg wave packet. We have measured the quantum coherence properties following the kick, and show that selected coherences can be destroyed by applying an HCP at specific times. Quantum mechanical simulations show that this is due to redistribution of the angular momentum in the presence of noise. These results have implications for the storage and retrieval of quantum information in the wave packet.

id: quant-ph/0408084
title: Non-Markovian qubit dynamics in a thermal field bath: Relaxation, decoherence and entanglement
authors: S. Shresta, C. Anastopoulos, A. Dragulescu, B. L. Hu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022109 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408084
abstract: We study the non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit made up of a two-level atom interacting with an electromagnetic field (EMF) initially at finite temperature. Unlike most earlier studies where the bath is assumed to be fixed, we study the coherent evolution of the combined qubit-EMF system, thus allowing for the back-action from the bath on the qubit and the qubit on the bath in a self-consistent manner. In this way we can see the development of quantum correlations and entanglement between the system and its environment, and how that affects the decoherence and relaxation of the system. We find non-exponential decay for both the diagonal and non-diagonal matrix elements of the qubit's reduced density matrix in the pointer basis. From the diagonal elements we see the qubit relaxes to thermal equilibrium with the bath. From the non-diagonal elements, we see the decoherence rate beginning at the usually predicted thermal rate, but changing to the zero temperature decoherence rate as the qubit and bath become entangled. These two rates are comparable, as was shown before in the zero temperature case [C. Anastopoulos and B. L. Hu, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 62} (2000) 033821]. On the entanglement of a qubit with the EMF under this type of resonant coupling we calculated, for the qubit reduced density matrix, the fidelity and the von Neumann entropy, which is a measure of the purity of the density matrix. The present more accurate non-Markovian calculations predict lower loss of fidelity and purity as compared with the Markovian results. Generally speaking, with the inclusion of quantum correlations between the qubit and its environment, the non-Markovian processes tend to slow down the drive of the system to equilibrium, prolonging the decoherence and better preserving the fidelity and purity of the system.

id: quant-ph/0408085
title: Unconditional Security of Three State Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: J.-C. Boileau, K. Tamaki, J. Batuwantudawe, R. Laflamme, J.M. Renes
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 040503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408085
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols are cryptographic techniques with security based only on the laws of quantum mechanics. Two prominent QKD schemes are the BB84 and B92 protocols that use four and two quantum states, respectively. In 2000, Phoenix et al. proposed a new family of three state protocols that offers advantages over the previous schemes. Until now, an error rate threshold for security of the symmetric trine spherical code QKD protocol has only been shown for the trivial intercept/resend eavesdropping strategy. In this paper, we prove the unconditional security of the trine spherical code QKD protocol, demonstrating its security up to a bit error rate of 9.81%. We also discuss on how this proof applies to a version of the trine spherical code QKD protocol where the error rate is evaluated from the number of inconclusive events.

id: quant-ph/0408086
title: Energy as an Entanglement Witness for Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: Mark R. Dowling, Andrew C. Doherty, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062113 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408086
abstract: We investigate quantum many-body systems where all low-energy states are entangled. As a tool for quantifying such systems, we introduce the concept of the entanglement gap, which is the difference in energy between the ground-state energy and the minimum energy that a separable (unentangled) state may attain. If the energy of the system lies within the entanglement gap, the state of the system is guaranteed to be entangled. We find Hamiltonians that have the largest possible entanglement gap; for a system consisting of two interacting spin-1/2 subsystems, the Heisenberg antiferromagnet is one such example. We also introduce a related concept, the entanglement-gap temperature: the temperature below which the thermal state is certainly entangled, as witnessed by its energy. We give an example of a bipartite Hamiltonian with an arbitrarily high entanglement-gap temperature for fixed total energy range. For bipartite spin lattices we prove a theorem demonstrating that the entanglement gap necessarily decreases as the coordination number is increased. We investigate frustrated lattices and quantum phase transitions as physical phenomena that affect the entanglement gap.

id: quant-ph/0408087
title: Decoherence versus Dynamical Casimir Effect
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Markus Tiersch
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408087
abstract: By means of two simple examples: phase and amplitude damping, the impact of decoherence on the dynamical Casimir effect is investigated. Even without dissipating energy (i.e., pure phase damping), the amount of created particles can be diminished significantly via the coupling to the environment (reservoir theory) inducing decoherence. For a simple microscopic model, it is demonstrated that spontaneous decays within the medium generate those problems -- Rabi oscillations are far more advantageous in that respect. These findings are particularly relevant in view of a recently proposed experimental verification of the dynamical Casimir effect. PACS: 42.50.Lc, 03.65.Yz, 03.70.+k, 42.50.Dv.

id: quant-ph/0408088
title: Quantum tomographic cryptography with Bell diagonal states: non-equivalence of classical and quantum distillation protocols
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Jenn Yang Lim, D. K. L. Oi, Frederick H. Willeboordse, Ajay Gopinathan, L. C. Kwek
comments: 9 pages. 2 figures There was an error in the formula 4 (transformation of Bell states). This error does not change the main result of the paper, namely, that quantum distillation is more powerful than classical advantage distillation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408088
abstract: We present a generalized tomographic quantum key distribution protocol in which the two parties share a Bell diagonal mixed state of two qubits. We show that if an eavesdropper performs a coherent measurement on many quantum ancilla states simultaneously, classical methods of secure key distillation are less effective than quantum entanglement distillation protocols. We also show that certain Bell diagonal states are resistant to any attempt of incoherent eavesdropping.

id: quant-ph/0408089
title: Testing Bell's inequality in constantly coupled Josephson circuits by effective single-qubit operations
authors: L.F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, three figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 104516 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408089
abstract: In superconducting circuits with interbit untunable (e.g., capacitive) couplings, ideal local quantum operations cannot be exactly performed on individual Josephson qubits. Here we propose an effective dynamical decoupling approach to overcome the "fixed-interaction" difficulty for effectively implementing elemental logical gates for quantum computation. The proposed single-qubit operations and local measurements should allow testing Bell's inequality with a pair of capacitively-coupled Josephson qubits. This provides a powerful approach, besides spectral-analysis [Nature \textbf{421}, 823 (2003); Science \textbf{300}, 1548 (2003)], to verify the existence of macroscopic quantum entanglement between two fixed-coupling Josephson qubits.

id: quant-ph/0408090
title: Extended GHZ n-player games with classical probability of winning tending to 0
authors: Michel Boyer
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX4. Expanded text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408090
abstract: In 1990, Mermin presented a n player game that is won with certainty using n spin-1/2 particles in a GHZ state whilst no classical strategy (or local theory) can win with probability higher than ${1/2} + \frac{1}{2^{\lceil n/2 \rceil}}$ (which is larger than 1/2). This article first introduces a class of arithmetic games containing Mermin's and gives a quantum algorithm based on a generalized n party GHZ state that wins those games with certainty. It is then proved for a subclass of those games where each player is given a single bit of input that no classical strategy can win with a probability that is asymptotically larger than 1.6 times the inverse of the square root of n, thus giving a new and stronger Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0408091
title: Noise-induced finite-time disentanglement in two-atomic system
authors: Lech Jakobczyk, Anna Jamroz
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 333, 35-45(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408091
abstract: We discuss the influence of a noisy environment on entangled states of two atoms and show that all such states disentangle in finite time.

id: quant-ph/0408092
title: Photon-bunching measurement after 2x25km of standard optical fibers
authors: M. Halder, S. Tanzilli, H. de Riedmatten, A. Beveratos, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042335 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408092
abstract: To show the feasibility of a long distance partial Bell-State measurement, a Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment with coherent photons is reported. Pairs of degenerate photons at telecom wavelength are created by parametric down conversion in a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide. The photon pairs are separated in a beam-splitter and transmitted via two fibers of 25km. The wave-packets are relatively delayed and recombined on a second beam-splitter, forming a large Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Coincidence counts between the photons at the two output modes are registered. The main challenge consists in the trade-off between low count rates due to narrow filtering and length fluctuations of the 25km long arms during the measurement. For balanced paths a Hong-Ou-Mandel dip with a visibility of 47.3% is observed, which is close to the maximal theoretical value of 50% developed here. This proves the practicability of a long distance Bell state measurement with two independent sources, as e.g. required in an entanglement swapping configuration in the scale of tens of km.

id: quant-ph/0408093
title: Heralding Single Photons from Pulsed Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures. Version 2 has minor revisions
journal: Opt. Comm. 246, 545-550 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408093
abstract: We describe an experiment in which photon pairs from a pulsed parametric down-conversion source were coupled into single-mode fibers. Detecting one of the photons heralded the presence of the other photon in its fiber with a probability of 83%. The heralded photons were then used in a simple multi-photon interference experiment to illustrate their potential for quantum information applications.

id: quant-ph/0408094
title: Measures of entanglement in quantum mechanics
authors: Geir Ove Myhr
comments: Master's thesis, 66 pages including index
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408094
abstract: I give an overview of some of the most used measures of entanglement. To make the presentation self-contained, a number of concepts from quantum information theory are first explained. Then the structure of bipartite entanglement is studied qualitatively, before a number of bipartite entanglement measures are described, both for pure and mixed states. Results from the study of multipartite systems and continuous variable systems are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0408095
title: Quantum gloves: Physics and Information
authors: N. Gisin
comments: A 2 page note on the theme "Information is physical, but physics is more than mere information"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408095
abstract: The slogan information is physical has been so successful that it led to some excess. Classical and quantum information can be thought of independently of any physical implementation. Pure information tasks can be realized using such abstract c- and qu-bits, but physical tasks require appropriate physical realizations of c- or qu-bits. As illustration we consider the problem of communicating chirality.

id: quant-ph/0408096
title: Geometric Quantization, Coherent States and Stochastic Measurements
authors: B.A. Nikolov, D.A. Trifonov
comments: Latex, 13 pages, no figures
journal: Annual H. Ped. Inst. Shumen, 11B, 49-62 (1987)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408096
abstract: The geometric quantization problem is considered from the point of view of the Davies and Lewis approach to quantum mechanics. The influence of the measuring device is accounted in the classical and quantum case and it is shown that the conditions of the measurement define the type of quantization (Weyl, normal, antinormal, etc.). The quantum states and quantum operators are obtained by means of the projection, defined from the system of generalized coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0408097
title: Quantum Computing Using Single Photons and the Zeno Effect
authors: J.D. Franson, B.C. Jacobs, T.B. Pittman
comments: 34 pages, 10 figures, longer version of quant-ph/0401133
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 062302 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408097
abstract: We show that the quantum Zeno effect can be used to suppress the failure events that would otherwise occur in a linear optics approach to quantum computing. From a practical viewpoint, that would allow the implementation of deterministic logic gates without the need for ancilla photons or high-efficiency detectors. We also show that the photons can behave as if they were fermions instead of bosons in the presence of a strong Zeno effect, which leads to a new paradigm for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0408098
title: Utilizing Encoding in Scalable Linear Optics Quantum Computing
authors: A. J. F. Hayes, A. Gilchrist, C. R. Myers, T. C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408098
abstract: We present a scheme which offers a significant reduction in the resources required to implement linear optics quantum computing. The scheme is a variation of the proposal of Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn, and makes use of an incremental approach to the error encoding to boost probability of success.

id: quant-ph/0408099
title: Optimal Unravellings for Feedback Control in Linear Quantum Systems
authors: H. M . Wiseman, A. C. Doherty
comments: 5 pages. Version published by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 94, 070405 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408099
abstract: For quantum systems with linear dynamics in phase space much of classical feedback control theory applies. However, there are some questions that are sensible only for the quantum case, such as: given a fixed interaction between the system and the environment what is the optimal measurement on the environment for a particular control problem? We show that for a broad class of optimal (state-based) control problems (the stationary Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian class), this question is a semi-definite program. Moreover, the answer also applies to Markovian (current-based) feedback.

id: quant-ph/0408100
title: Relation between coined quantum walks and quantum cellular automata
authors: Masatoshi Hamada, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 11 pages, journal reference added
journal: RIMS Kokyuroku, No.1422, pp.1-11 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408100
abstract: Motivated by the recent work of Patel et al., this paper clarifies a connection between coined quantum walks and quantum cellular automata in a general setting. As a consequence, their result is naturally derived from the connection.

id: quant-ph/0408101
title: The ground state entanglement in the $XXZ$ model
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Guang-Shan Tian, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052322 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408101
abstract: In this paper, we investigate spin entanglement in the $XXZ$ model defined on a $d$-dimensional bipartite lattice. The concurrence, a measure of the entanglement between two spins, is analyzed. We prove rigorously that the ground state concurrence reaches maximum at the isotropic point. For dimensionality $d \ge 2$, the concurrence develops a cusp at the isotropic point and we attribute it to the existence of magnetic long-range order.

id: quant-ph/0408102
title: Quantum privacy amplification for quantum secure direct communication
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 3 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408102
abstract: Using quantum mechanics, secure direct communication between distant parties can be performed. Over a noisy quantum channel, quantum privacy amplification is a necessary step to ensure the security of the message. In this paper, we present a quantum privacy amplification scheme for quantum secure direct communication using single photons. The quantum privacy amplification procedure contains two control-not gates and a Hadamard gate. After the unitary gate operations, a measurement is performed and one photon is retained. The retained photon carries the state information of the discarded photon, and hence reduces the information leakage. The procedure can be performed recursively so that the information leakage can be reduced to any arbitrarily low level.

id: quant-ph/0408103
title: Conditions for the multiplicativity of maximal l_p-norms of channels for fixed integer p
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 20 pages: new material added including additional details supporting the conjecture that the Werner-Holevo channel is multiplicative for all p when d > 2^{p-1}; typos corrected. To appear on JMP
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 042105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408103
abstract: We introduce a condition for memoryless quantum channels which, when satisfied guarantees the multiplicativity of the maximal l_p-norm with p a fixed integer. By applying the condition to qubit channels, it can be shown that it is not a necessary condition, although some known results for qubits can be recovered. When applied to the Werner-Holevo channel, which is known to violate multiplicativity when p is large relative to the dimension d, the condition suggests that multiplicativity holds when $d \geqslant 2^{p-1}$. This conjecture is proved explicitly for p=2, 3, 4. Finally, a new class of channels is considered which generalizes the depolarizing channel to maps which are combinations of the identity channel and a noisy one whose image is an arbitrary density matrix. It is shown that these channels are multiplicative for p = 2.

id: quant-ph/0408104
title: On a group-theoretical approach to the periodic table of chemical elements
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of the XI International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (SYMPHYS-11) organized by the Bogoliubov Laboratory of Theoretical Physics of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna and the Doppler Institute of the Czech Technical University in Prague (Prague, Czech Republic, 21-24 June 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408104
abstract: This paper is concerned with the application of the group SO(4,2)xSU(2) to the periodic table of chemical elements. It is shown how the Madelung rule of the atomic shell model can be used for setting up a periodic table that can be further rationalized via the group SO(4,2)xSU(2) and some of its subgroups. Qualitative results are obtained from the table and the general lines of a programme for a quantitative approach to the properties of chemical elements are developed on the basis of the group SO(4,2)xSU(2).

id: quant-ph/0408105
title: EPR and Bell Locality
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: Submitted to Found. Phys
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings, Vol. 844, "Are there quantum jumps? and On the present status of quantum mechanics," 281-93, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408105
abstract: A new formulation of the EPR argument is presented, one which uses John Bell's mathematically precise local causality condition in place of the looser locality assumption which was used in the original EPR paper and on which Niels Bohr seems to have based his objection to the EPR argument. The new formulation of EPR bears a striking resemblance to Bell's derivation of his famous inequalities. The relation between these two arguments -- in particular, the role of EPR as part one of Bell's two-part argument for nonlocality -- is also discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0408106
title: Kochen-Specker theorem for von Neumann algebras
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 44, 139-160 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408106
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem has been discussed intensely ever since its original proof in 1967. It is one of the central no-go theorems of quantum theory, showing the non-existence of a certain kind of hidden states models. In this paper, we first offer a new, non-combinatorial proof for quantum systems with a type $I_{n}$ factor as algebra of observables, including $I_{\infty}$. Afterwards, we give a proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem for an arbitrary von Neumann algebra $\mathcal{R}$ without summands of types $I_{1}$ and $I_{2}$, using a known result on two-valued measures on the projection lattice $\mathcal{P(R)}$. Some connections with presheaf formulations as proposed by Isham and Butterfield are made.

id: quant-ph/0408107
title: Monitoring Quantum Oscillations with very small Disturbance
authors: J¨¹rgen Audretsch, Felix E. Klee, Thomas Konrad
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408107
abstract: We present a new scheme to detect and visualize oscillations of a single quantum system in real time. The scheme is based upon a sequence of very weak generalized measurements, distinguished by their low disturbance and low information gain. Accumulating the information from the single measurements by means of an appropriate Bayesian Estimator, the actual oscillations can be monitored nevertheless with high accuracy and low disturbance. For this purpose only the minimum and the maximum expected oscillation frequency need to be known. The accumulation of information is based on a general derivation of the optimal estimator of the expectation value of a hermitian observable for a sequence of measurements. At any time it takes into account all the preceding measurement results.

id: quant-ph/0408108
title: Statistically Secure Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: Zhide Chen, Tianming Bu, Hong Zhu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408108
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0408109
title: Cramer's Transactional Interpretation and Causal Loop Problems
authors: Ruth E. Kastner
comments: To appear in Synthese
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408109
abstract: Tim Maudlin's argument for the inconsistency of Cramer's Transactional Interpretation (TI) of quantum theory has been considered in some detail by Joseph Berkovitz, who has provided a possible solution to this challenge at the cost of a significant empirical lacuna on the part of TI. The present paper proposes an alternative solution in which Maudlin's charge of inconsistency is evaded but at no cost of empirical content on the part of TI. However, Maudlin's argument is taken as ruling out Cramer's heuristic ``pseudotime'' explanation of the realization of one transaction out of many.

id: quant-ph/0408110
title: Squeezing Operator and Squeeze Tomography
authors: Octavio Castanos, Ramon Lopez-Pena, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 17 pages LaTeX, 2 figures PostScript To appear in the Proccedings of the Conference ``Topics in Mathematical Physics, General Relativity and Cosmology on the Ocassion of the 75th Birthday of Professor Jerzy F. Plebanski'' Mexico City, August 2002 (World Scientific, Singapore)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408110
abstract: Some properties of Plebanski squeezing operator and squeezed states created with time-dependent quadratic in position and momentum Hamiltonians are reviewed. New type of tomography of quantum states called squeeze tomography is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0408111
title: Superoperator Many-body Theory of Molecular Currents: Non-equilibrium Green Functions in Real Time
authors: U. Harbola, S. Mukamel
comments: 16 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408111
abstract: The electric conductance of a molecular junction is calculated by recasting the Keldysh formalism in Liouville space. Dyson equations for nonequilibrium many body Green's functions (NEGF) are derived directly in real (physical) time. The various NEGFs appear naturally in the theory as time ordered products of superoperators, while the Keldysh forward/backward time loop is avoided.

id: quant-ph/0408112
title: Quantum secret key encryption algorithm based on quantum discrete logarithm problem
authors: Chien-Yuan Chen, Chih-Cheng Hsueh
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408112
abstract: In this paper, we first define the quantum discrete logarithm problem (QDLP)which is similar to classical discrete logarithm problem. But, this problem cannot be solved by Shor's quantum algorithm. Based on quantum discrete logarithm problem, we present a novel quantum secret key encryption algorithm. The receiver constructs his quantum channel using their secret key. Then, the sender can use the receiver's quantum channel to encrypt the message. Finally, the receiver dencrypts the ciphertext by using secret key. In our algorithm, the quantum system will be broken after transferring messages. But, the secret key can still be used repeatedly in our algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0408113
title: Understanding Bohmian mechanics: A dialogue
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 21 pages, no figures; uses RevTeX4
journal: American Journal of Physics 72(9), 1220-1226 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408113
abstract: This paper is an introduction to the ideas of Bohmian mechanics, an interpretation of quantum mechanics in which the observer plays no fundamental role. Bohmian mechanics describes, instead of probabilities of measurement results, objective microscopic events. In recent years, Bohmian mechanics has attracted increasing attention by researchers. The form of a dialogue allows me to address questions about the Bohmian view that often arise.

id: quant-ph/0408114
title: Transmission spectra of two-dimensional quantum structures
authors: Kia Manouchehri, J.B. Wang
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures, published in J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408114
abstract: To study the ballistic transport of charge carriers in nano-structured quantum devices, a highly efficient numerical technique is developed, which provides continuous transmission spectra for arbitrarily complex potential geometries in two dimensions. We apply the proposed method to single and double barrier structures and compare the results with those obtained using standard techniques for computing transmission coefficients. Excellent numerical agreement as well as considerable computational saving is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0408115
title: Classical randomness in quantum measurements
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paoloplacido Lo Presti, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 8 pages, RevTex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 5979-5991
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408115
abstract: Similarly to quantum states, also quantum measurements can be "mixed", corresponding to a random choice within an ensemble of measuring apparatuses. Such mixing is equivalent to a sort of hidden variable, which produces a noise of purely classical nature. It is then natural to ask which apparatuses are "indecomposable", i. e. do not correspond to any random choice of apparatuses. This problem is interesting not only for foundations, but also for applications, since most optimization strategies give optimal apparatuses that are indecomposable. Mathematically the problem is posed describing each measuring apparatus by a positive operator-valued measure (POVM), which gives the statistics of the outcomes for any input state. The POVM's form a convex set, and in this language the indecomposable apparatuses are represented by extremal points--the analogous of "pure states" in the convex set of states. Differently from the case of states, however, indecomposable POVM's are not necessarily rank-one, e. g. von Neumann measurements. In this paper we give a complete classification of indecomposable apparatuses (for discrete spectrum), by providing different necessary and sufficient conditions for extremality of POVM's, along with a simple general algorithm for the decomposition of a POVM into extremals. As an interesting application, "informationally complete" measurements are analyzed in this respect. The convex set of POVM's is fully characterized by determining its border in terms of simple algebraic properties of the corresponding POVM's.

id: quant-ph/0408116
title: Quantum calibration of measuring apparatuses
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Lorenzo Maccone, Paoloplacido Lo Presti
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 250407 (2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408116
abstract: By quantum calibration we name an experimental procedure apt to completely characterize an unknown measurement apparatus by comparing it with other calibrated apparatuses. Here we show how to achieve the calibration of an arbitrary measuring apparatus, by using it in conjunction with a ``tomographer'' in a correlation setup with an input bipartite system. The method is robust to imperfections of the tomographer, and works for practically any input state of the bipartite system.

id: quant-ph/0408117
title: A symmetry analyser for non-destructive Bell state detection using EIT
authors: S. D. Barrett, P. Kok, K. Nemoto, R. G. Beausoleil, W. J. Munro, T. P. Spiller
comments: Final published form
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 060302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408117
abstract: We describe a method to project photonic two-qubit states onto the symmetric and antisymmetric subspaces of their Hilbert space. This device utilizes an ancillary coherent state, together with a weak cross-Kerr non-linearity, generated, for example, by electromagnetically induced transparency. The symmetry analyzer is non-destructive, and works for small values of the cross-Kerr coupling. Furthermore, this device can be used to construct a non-destructive Bell state detector.

id: quant-ph/0408118
title: A near deterministic linear optical CNOT gate
authors: Kae Nemoto, W. J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 250502 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408118
abstract: We show how to construct a near deterministic CNOT using several single photons sources, linear optics, photon number resolving quantum non-demolition detectors and feed-forward. This gate does not require the use of massively entangled states common to other implementations and is very efficient on resources with only one ancilla photon required. The key element of this gate are non-demolition detectors that use a weak cross-Kerr nonlinearity effect to conditionally generate a phase shift on a coherent probe, if a photon is present in the signal mode. These potential phase shifts can then be measured using highly efficient homodyne detection.

id: quant-ph/0408119
title: Quantum Computing and Hidden Variables II: The Complexity of Sampling Histories
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 14 pages. Together with Part I (quant-ph/0408035), subsumes the earlier paper quant-ph/0205059. Can be read independently of Part I
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408119
abstract: This paper shows that, if we could examine the entire history of a hidden variable, then we could efficiently solve problems that are believed to be intractable even for quantum computers. In particular, under any hidden-variable theory satisfying a reasonable axiom called "indifference to the identity," we could solve the Graph Isomorphism and Approximate Shortest Vector problems in polynomial time, as well as an oracle problem that is known to require quantum exponential time. We could also search an N-item database using O(N^{1/3}) queries, as opposed to O(N^{1/2}) queries with Grover's search algorithm. On the other hand, the N^{1/3} bound is optimal, meaning that we could probably not solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time. We thus obtain the first good example of a model of computation that appears slightly more powerful than the quantum computing model.

id: quant-ph/0408120
title: Security of Quantum Bit-String Generation
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Serge Massar
comments: 16 pages. No figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A. A corresponding experiment is reported in quant-ph/0408121
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408120
abstract: We consider the cryptographic task of bit-string generation. This is a generalisation of coin tossing in which two mistrustful parties wish to generate a string of random bits such that an honest party can be sure that the other cannot have biased the string too much. We consider a quantum protocol for this task, originally introduced in Phys. Rev. A {\bf 69}, 022322 (2004), that is feasible with present day technology. We introduce security conditions based on the average bias of the bits and the Shannon entropy of the string. For each, we prove rigorous security bounds for this protocol in both noiseless and noisy conditions under the most general attacks allowed by quantum mechanics. Roughly speaking, in the absence of noise, a cheater can only bias significantly a vanishing fraction of the bits, whereas in the presence of noise, a cheater can bias a constant fraction, with this fraction depending quantitatively on the level of noise. We also discuss classical protocols for the same task, deriving upper bounds on how well a classical protocol can perform. This enables the determination of how much noise the quantum protocol can tolerate while still outperforming classical protocols. We raise several conjectures concerning both quantum and classical possibilities for large n cryptography. An experiment corresponding to the scheme analysed in this paper has been performed and is reported elsewhere.

id: quant-ph/0408121
title: Provably Secure Experimental Quantum Bit-String Generation
authors: Louis-Philippe Lamoureux, Edouard Brainis, David Amans, Jonathan Barrett, Serge Massar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. A complete security analysis for the experiment is given in quant-ph/0408120
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 050503(4) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408121
abstract: Coin tossing is a cryptographic task in which two parties who do not trust each other aim to generate a common random bit. Using classical communication this is impossible, but non trivial coin tossing is possible using quantum communication. Here we consider the case when the parties do not want to toss a single coin, but many. This is called bit string generation. We report the experimental generation of strings of coins which are provably more random than achievable using classical communication. The experiment is based on the ``plug and play'' scheme developed for quantum cryptography, and therefore well suited for long distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0408122
title: Photon-Number-Splitting versus Cloning Attacks in Practical Implementations of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol for Quantum Cryptography
authors: Armand Niederberger, Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; "intuitive" formula (31) added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408122
abstract: In practical quantum cryptography, the source sometimes produces multi-photon pulses, thus enabling the eavesdropper Eve to perform the powerful photon-number-splitting (PNS) attack. Recently, it was shown by Curty and Lutkenhaus [Phys. Rev. A 69, 042321 (2004)] that the PNS attack is not always the optimal attack when two photons are present: if errors are present in the correlations Alice-Bob and if Eve cannot modify Bob's detection efficiency, Eve gains a larger amount of information using another attack based on a 2->3 cloning machine. In this work, we extend this analysis to all distances Alice-Bob. We identify a new incoherent 2->3 cloning attack which performs better than those described before. Using it, we confirm that, in the presence of errors, Eve's better strategy uses 2->3 cloning attacks instead of the PNS. However, this improvement is very small for the implementations of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol. Thus, the existence of these new attacks is conceptually interesting but basically does not change the value of the security parameters of BB84. The main results are valid both for Poissonian and sub-Poissonian sources.

id: quant-ph/0408123
title: Theoretical investigation of the quantum noise in ghost imaging
authors: Jing Cheng, Shensheng Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408123
abstract: Ghost imaging is a method to nonlocally image an object by transmitting pairs of entangled photons through the object and a reference optical system respectively. We present a theoretical analysis of the quantum noise in this imaging technique. The dependence of the noise on the properties of the apertures in the imaging system are discussed and demonstrated with a numerical example. For a given source, the resolution and the signal-to-noise ratio cannot be improved at the same time .

id: quant-ph/0408124
title: Geometry of the Casimir Effect
authors: Roger Balian, Bertrand Duplantier
comments: 44 pages, 8 figures; Proceedings of the 15 th SIGRAV Conference on General Relativity and Gravitational Physics, Villa Mondragone, Monte Porzio Catone, Roma, Italy, September 9-12, 2002
journal: Recent Developments in Gravitational Physics, Institute of Physics Conference Series 176, Ed. Ciufiolini et al, Oct 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408124
abstract: When the vacuum is partitioned by material boundaries with arbitrary shape, one can define the zero-point energy and the free energy of the electromagnetic waves in it: this can be done, independently of the nature of the boundaries, in the limit that they become perfect conductors, provided their curvature is finite. The first examples we consider are Casimir's original configuration of parallel plates, and the experimental situation of a sphere in front of a plate. For arbitrary geometries, we give an explicit expression for the zero-point energy and the free energy in terms of an integral kernel acting on the boundaries; it can be expanded in a convergent series interpreted as a succession of an even number of scatterings of a wave. The quantum and thermal fluctuations of vacuum then appear as a purely geometric property. The Casimir effect thus defined exists only owing to the electromagnetic nature of the field. It does not exist for thin foils with sharp folds, but Casimir forces between solid wedges are finite. We work out various applications: low temperature, high temperature where wrinkling constraints appear, stability of a plane foil, transfer of energy from one side of a curved boundary to the other, forces between distant conductors, special shapes (parallel plates, sphere, cylinder, honeycomb).

id: quant-ph/0408125
title: Environment as a Witness: Selective Proliferation of Information and Emergence of Objectivity in a Quantum Universe
authors: Harold Ollivier, David Poulin, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: New figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042113 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408125
abstract: We study the role of the information deposited in the environment of an open quantum system in course of the decoherence process. Redundant spreading of information -- the fact that some observables of the system can be independently ``read-off'' from many distinct fragments of the environment -- is investigated as the key to effective objectivity, the essential ingredient of ``classical reality''. This focus on the environment as a communication channel through which observers learn about physical systems underscores importance of quantum Darwinism -- selective proliferation of information about ``the fittest states'' chosen by the dynamics of decoherence at the expense of their superpositions -- as redundancy imposes the existence of preferred observables. We demonstrate that the only observables that can leave multiple imprints in the environment are the familiar pointer observables singled out by environment-induced superselection (einselection) for their predictability. Many independent observers monitoring the environment will therefore agree on properties of the system as they can only learn about preferred observables. In this operational sense, the selective spreading of information leads to appearance of an objective ``classical reality'' from within quantum substrate.

id: quant-ph/0408126
title: Spatial overlap of nonclassical ultrashort light pulses and formation of polarization-squeezed light
authors: F. Popescu
comments: RevTeX, 21 pages, 12 .eps figures, submitted to J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt., citation corrected in captions to figs. 5 and 6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408126
abstract: We investigate the spatial overlap of nonclassical ultrashort light pulses produced by self-phase modulation effect in electronic Kerr media and its relevance in the formation of polarization-squeezed states of light. The light polarization is treated in terms of four quantum Stokes parameters whose spectra of quantum fluctuations are investigated. We show that the frequency at which the suppression of quantum fluctuations of Stokes parameters is the greatest can be controlled by adjusting the linear phase difference between pulses. By varying the intensity of one pulse one can suppress effectively the quantum fluctuations of Stokes parameters. We study the overlap of nonclassical pulses inside of an anisotropic electronic Kerr medium and we show that the cross-phase modulation effect can be employed to control the polarization-squeezed state of light. Moreover, we establish that the change of the intensity or of the nonlinear phase shift per photon for one pulse controls effectively the squeezing of Stokes parameters. The spatial overlap of a coherent pulse field with an interference pulse produced by mixing two quadrature-squeezed pulses on a beam splitter is analyzed. It is found that squeezing is produced in three of the four Stokes parameters, with the squeezing in the first two being simultaneous.

id: quant-ph/0408127
title: Lorentz-invariant Bell's inequality
authors: Won Tae Kim, Edwin J. Son
comments: 7 pages, no figures, REVTeX4; v2. version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A71 (2005) 014102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408127
abstract: We study Bell's inequality in relation to the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox in the relativistic regime. For this purpose, a relativistically invariant observable is used in the calculation of the Bell's inequality, which results in the maximally violated Bell's inequality in any reference frames.

id: quant-ph/0408128
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Dynamical Decoupling
authors: K. Khodjasteh, D.A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, 4 color eps figures. v3: Minor changes. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 180501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408128
abstract: Dynamical decoupling pulse sequences have been used to extend coherence times in quantum systems ever since the discovery of the spin-echo effect. Here we introduce a method of recursively concatenated dynamical decoupling pulses, designed to overcome both decoherence and operational errors. This is important for coherent control of quantum systems such as quantum computers. For bounded-strength, non-Markovian environments, such as for the spin-bath that arises in electron- and nuclear-spin based solid-state quantum computer proposals, we show that it is strictly advantageous to use concatenated, as opposed to standard periodic dynamical decoupling pulse sequences. Namely, the concatenated scheme is both fault-tolerant and super-polynomially more efficient, at equal cost. We derive a condition on the pulse noise level below which concatenated is guaranteed to reduce decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0408129
title: Quantum computing and polynomial equations over the finite field Z_2
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Henry L. Haselgrove, Andrew P. Hines, Duncan Mortimer, Michael A. Nielsen, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 5 (2), pp.102-112 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408129
abstract: What is the computational power of a quantum computer? We show that determining the output of a quantum computation is equivalent to counting the number of solutions to an easily computed set of polynomials defined over the finite field Z_2. This connection allows simple proofs to be given for two known relationships between quantum and classical complexity classes.

id: quant-ph/0408130
title: A simple proof of the strong subadditivity inequality
authors: Michael A. Nielsen, Denes Petz
comments: 7 pages, resubmitted version of a tutorial paper submitted to Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408130
abstract: Arguably the deepest fact known about the von Neumann entropy, the strong subadditivity inequality is a potent hammer in the quantum information theorist's toolkit. This short tutorial describes a simple proof of strong subadditivity due to Petz [Rep. on Math. Phys. 23 (1), 57--65 (1986)]. It assumes only knowledge of elementary linear algebra and quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0408131
title: A Note on Entanglement of Formation and Generalized Concurrence
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Hui Zhao
comments: 9 pages, latex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 329 (2004)414-419
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408131
abstract: We discuss a kind of generalized concurrence for a class of high dimensional quantum pure states such that the entanglement of formation is a monotonically increasing convex function of the generalized concurrence. An analytical expression of the entanglement of formation for a class of high dimensional quantum mixed states is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0408132
title: Physical Aspects of Pseudo-Hermitian and $PT$-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Ahmet Batal
comments: 45 pages, 13 figures, 2 tables
journal: J.Phys.A37:11645-11680,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408132
abstract: For a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian H possessing a real spectrum, we introduce a canonical orthonormal basis in which a previously introduced unitary mapping of H to a Hermitian Hamiltonian h takes a simple form. We use this basis to construct the observables O of the quantum mechanics based on H. In particular, we introduce pseudo-Hermitian position and momentum operators and a pseudo-Hermitian quantization scheme that relates the latter to the ordinary classical position and momentum observables. These allow us to address the problem of determining the conserved probability density and the underlying classical system for pseudo-Hermitian and in particular PT-symmetric quantum systems. As a concrete example we construct the Hermitian Hamiltonian h, the physical observables O, the localized states, and the conserved probability density for the non-Hermitian PT-symmetric square well. We achieve this by employing an appropriate perturbation scheme. For this system, we conduct a comprehensive study of both the kinematical and dynamical effects of the non-Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian on various physical quantities. In particular, we show that these effects are quantum mechanical in nature and diminish in the classical limit. Our results provide an objective assessment of the physical aspects of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics and clarify its relationship with both the conventional quantum mechanics and the classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0408133
title: An atom diode
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408133
abstract: An atom diode, i.e., a device that lets the ground state atom pass in one direction but not in the opposite direction in a velocity range is devised. It is based on the adiabatic transfer achieved with two lasers and a third laser potential that reflects the ground state.

id: quant-ph/0408134
title: Iterative procedure for computing accessible information in quantum communication
authors: Jaroslav ?eh¨¢?ek, Berthold-Georg Englert, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: REVTeX, 4 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 71 (2005) 054303 (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408134
abstract: We present an iterative algorithm that finds the optimal measurement for extracting the accessible information in any quantum communication scenario. The maximization is achieved by a steepest-ascent approach toward the extremal point, following the gradient uphill in sufficiently small steps. We apply it to a simple ad-hoc example, as well as to a problem with a bearing on the security of a tomographic protocol for quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0408135
title: Incoherent Coincidence Imaging and Its Applicability in X-ray Diffraction
authors: Jing Cheng, Shensheng Han
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 093903 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408135
abstract: Entangled-photon coincidence imaging is a method to nonlocally image an object by transmitting a pair of entangled photons through the object and a reference optical system, respectively. The image of the object can be extracted from the coincidence rate of these two photons. From a classical perspective, the image is proportional to the fourth-order correlation function of the wave field. Using classical statistical optics, we study a particular aspect of coincidence imaging with incoherent sources. As an application, we give a proposal to realize lensless Fourier-transform imaging, and discuss its applicability in x-ray diffraction.

id: quant-ph/0408136
title: High quality asynchronous heralded single photon source at telecom wavelength
authors: Sylvain Fasel, Olivier Alibart, Alexios Beveratos, Sebastien Tanzilli, Hugo Zbinden, Pascal Baldi, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 6, 163 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408136
abstract: We report on the experimental realization and characterization of an asynchronous heralded single photon source based on spontaneous parametric down conversion. Photons at 1550nm are heralded as being inside a single-mode fiber with more than 60% probability, and the multi-photon emission probability is reduced by up to a factor 600 compared to poissonian light sources. These figures of merit, together with the choice of telecom wavelength for the heralded photons are compatible with practical applications needing very efficient and robust single photon sources.

id: quant-ph/0408137
title: Eigenvalue Estimation of Differential Operators
authors: Thomas Szkopek, Vwani Roychowdhury, Eli Yablonovitch, Daniel S. Abrams
comments: significant content revisions: more algorithm details and brief analysis of convergence
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408137
abstract: We demonstrate how linear differential operators could be emulated by a quantum processor, should one ever be built, using the Abrams-Lloyd algorithm. Given a linear differential operator of order 2S, acting on functions psi(x_1,x_2,...,x_D) with D arguments, the computational cost required to estimate a low order eigenvalue to accuracy Theta(1/N^2) is Theta((2(S+1)(1+1/nu)+D)log N) qubits and O(N^{2(S+1)(1+1/nu)} (D log N)^c) gate operations, where N is the number of points to which each argument is discretized, nu and c are implementation dependent constants of O(1). Optimal classical methods require Theta(N^D) bits and Omega(N^D) gate operations to perform the same eigenvalue estimation. The Abrams-Lloyd algorithm thereby leads to exponential reduction in memory and polynomial reduction in gate operations, provided the domain has sufficiently large dimension D > 2(S+1)(1+1/nu). In the case of Schrodinger's equation, ground state energy estimation of two or more particles can in principle be performed with fewer quantum mechanical gates than classical gates.

id: quant-ph/0408138
title: Probabilistic Quantum Control Via Indirect Measurement
authors: A. Mandilara, J. W. Clark
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; typos added, reference added, reference removed
journal: Physical Review A 71, 013406 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408138
abstract: The most basic scenario of quantum control involves the organized manipulation of pure dynamical states of the system by means of unitary transformations. Recently, Vilela Mendes and Mank'o have shown that the conditions for controllability on the state space become less restrictive if unitary control operations may be supplemented by projective measurement. The present work builds on this idea, introducing the additional element of indirect measurement to achieve a kind of remote control. The target system that is to be remotely controlled is first entangled with another identical system, called the control system. The control system is then subjected to unitary transformations plus projective measurement. As anticipated by Schrodinger, such control via entanglement is necessarily probabilistic in nature. On the other hand, under appropriate conditions the remote-control scenario offers the special advantages of robustness against decoherence and a greater repertoire of unitary transformations. Simulations carried out for a two-level system demonstrate that, with optimization of control parameters, a substantial gain in the population of reachable states can be realized.

id: quant-ph/0408139
title: Control of entanglement with multipulse application
authors: Chikako Uchiyama, Masaki Aihara
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408139
abstract: We show that the multipulse application can suppress the degradation of the quantum entanglement with focusing on the concurrence, the degree of entanglement. By evaluating the time evolution of concurrence with a linearly interacting spin-boson model under pulse application, we find that the effectiveness of the multipulse control depends on the non-Markovian nature of the reservoir.

id: quant-ph/0408140
title: Limit Theorem for Continuous-Time Quantum Walk on the Line
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 15 pages, title corrected
journal: Physical Review E, Vol.72, 026113 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408140
abstract: Concerning a discrete-time quantum walk X^{(d)}_t with a symmetric distribution on the line, whose evolution is described by the Hadamard transformation, it was proved by the author that the following weak limit theorem holds: X^{(d)}_t /t \to dx / \pi (1-x^2) \sqrt{1 - 2 x^2} as t \to \infty. The present paper shows that a similar type of weak limit theorems is satisfied for a {\it continuous-time} quantum walk X^{(c)}_t on the line as follows: X^{(c)}_t /t \to dx / \pi \sqrt{1 - x^2} as t \to \infty. These results for quantum walks form a striking contrast to the central limit theorem for symmetric discrete- and continuous-time classical random walks: Y_{t}/ \sqrt{t} \to e^{-x^2/2} dx / \sqrt{2 \pi} as t \to \infty. The work deals also with issue of the relationship between discrete and continuous-time quantum walks. This topic, subject of a long debate in the previous literature, is treated within the formalism of matrix representation and the limit distributions are exhaustively compared in the two cases.

id: quant-ph/0408141
title: Pseudo-Hermitian approach to energy-dependent Klein-Gordon models
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Hynek Bila, Vit Jakubsky
comments: 2nd Int. Workshop "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics" (this http URL)
journal: Czechoslovak J. Phys. 54 (2004) 1143 - 1148
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408141
abstract: The relativistic Klein-Gordon system is studied as an illustration of Quantum Mechanics using non-Hermitian operators as observables. A version of the model is considered containing a generic coordinate- and energy-dependent phenomenological mass-term $m^2(E,x)$. We show how similar systems may be assigned a pair of the linear, energy-independent left- and right-acting Hamiltonians with quasi-Hermiticity property and, hence, with the standard probabilistic interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0408142
title: Vibrating Cavities - A numerical approach
authors: Marcus Ruser
comments: 28 pages, 19 figures, accepted for publication in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S100
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408142
abstract: We present a general formalism allowing for efficient numerical calculation of the production of massless scalar particles from vacuum in a one-dimensional dynamical cavity, i.e. the dynamical Casimir effect. By introducing a particular parametrization for the time evolution of the field modes inside the cavity we derive a coupled system of first-order linear differential equations. The solutions to this system determine the number of created particles and can be found by means of numerical methods for arbitrary motions of the walls of the cavity. To demonstrate the method which accounts for the intermode coupling we investigate the creation of massless scalar particles in a one-dimensional vibrating cavity by means of three particular cavity motions. We compare the numerical results with analytical predictions as well as a different numerical approach.

id: quant-ph/0408143
title: Effective potential analytic continuation calculations of real time quantum correlation functions: Asymmetric systems
authors: Atsushi Horikoshi, Kenichi Kinugawa
comments: RevTeX4, 13 pages, 9 eps figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 121 (2004) 2891-2898
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408143
abstract: We apply the effective potential analytic continuation (EPAC) method to one-dimensional asymmetric potential systems to obtain the real time quantum correlation functions at various temperatures. Comparing the EPAC results with the exact results, we find that for an asymmetric anharmonic oscillator the EPAC results are in very good agreement with the exact ones at low temperature, while this agreement becomes worse as the temperature increases. We also show that the EPAC calculation for a certain type of asymmetric potentials can be reduced to that for the corresponding symmetric potentials.

id: quant-ph/0408144
title: Spatial non-cyclic geometric phase in neutron interferometry
authors: Stefan Filipp, Yuji Hasegawa, Rudolf Loidl, Helmut Rauch
comments: presented at the Int. Conference on Precision Measurements with Slow Neutrons, April 2004, NIST, Gaithersburg, US
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408144
abstract: We present a split-beam neutron interferometric experiment to test the non-cyclic geometric phase tied to the spatial evolution of the system: the subjacent two-dimensional Hilbert space is spanned by the two possible paths in the interferometer and the evolution of the state is controlled by phase shifters and absorbers. A related experiment was reported previously by some of the authors [Hasegawa et al., PRA 53, 2486 (1996)] to verify the cyclic spatial geometric phase. The interpretation of this experiment, namely to ascribe a geometric phase to this particular state evolution, has met severe criticism [Wagh, PRA 59, 1715 (1999)]. The extension to non-cyclic evolution manifests the correctness of the interpretation of the previous experiment by means of an explicit calculation of the non-cyclic geometric phase in terms of paths on the Bloch-sphere. The theoretical treatment comprises the cyclic geometric phase as a special case, which is confirmed by experiment.

id: quant-ph/0408145
title: Hawking radiation in an electro-magnetic wave-guide?
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, William G. Unruh
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 95 (2005) 031301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408145
abstract: It is demonstrated that the propagation of electro-magnetic waves in an appropriately designed wave-guide is (for large wave-lengths) analogous to that within a curved space-time -- such as around a black hole. As electro-magnetic radiation (e.g., micro-weaves) can be controlled, amplified, and detected (with present-day technology) much easier than sound, for example, we propose a set-up for the experimental verification of the Hawking effect. Apart from experimentally testing this striking prediction, this would facilitate the investigation of the trans-Planckian problem. PACS: 04.70.Dy, 04.80.-y, 42.50.-p, 84.40.Az.

id: quant-ph/0408146
title: Distant Entanglement of Macroscopic Gas Samples
authors: J. Sherson, B. Julsgaard, E. S. Polzik
comments: 20 pages book-style, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408146
abstract: One of the main ingredients in most quantum information protocols is a reliable source of two entangled systems. Such systems have been generated experimentally several years ago for light but has only in the past few years been demonstrated for atomic systems. None of these approaches however involve two atomic systems situated in separate environments. This is necessary for the creation of entanglement over arbitrary distances which is required for many quantum information protocols such as atomic teleportation. We present an experimental realization of such distant entanglement based on an adaptation of the entanglement of macroscopic gas samples containing about 10^11 cesium atoms shown previously by our group. The entanglement is generated via the off-resonant Kerr interaction between the atomic samples and a pulse of light. The achieved entanglement distance is 0.35m but can be scaled arbitrarily. The feasibility of an implementation of various quantum information protocols using macroscopic samples of atoms has therefore been greatly increased. We also present a theoretical modeling in terms of canonical position and momentum operators X and P describing the entanglement generation and verification in presence of decoherence mechanisms.

id: quant-ph/0408147
title: A simple example of "Quantum Darwinism": Redundant information storage in many-spin environments
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, RevTex 4. Submitted to Foundations of Physics (Asher Peres Festschrift)
journal: Foundations of Physics 35, 1857 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408147
abstract: As quantum information science approaches the goal of constructing quantum computers, understanding loss of information through decoherence becomes increasingly important. The information about a system that can be obtained from its environment can facilitate quantum control and error correction. Moreover, observers gain most of their information indirectly, by monitoring (primarily photon) environments of the "objects of interest." Exactly how this information is inscribed in the environment is essential for the emergence of "the classical" from the quantum substrate. In this paper, we examine how many-qubit (or many-spin) environments can store information about a single system. The information lost to the environment can be stored redundantly, or it can be encoded in entangled modes of the environment. We go on to show that randomly chosen states of the environment almost always encode the information so that an observer must capture a majority of the environment to deduce the system's state. Conversely, in the states produced by a typical decoherence process, information about a particular observable of the system is stored redundantly. This selective proliferation of "the fittest information" (known as Quantum Darwinism) plays a key role in choosing the preferred, effectively classical observables of macroscopic systems. The developing appreciation that the environment functions not just as a garbage dump, but as a communication channel, is extending our understanding of the environment's role in the quantum-classical transition beyond the traditional paradigm of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0408148
title: Indispensable Role of Quantum Theory in the Brain Dynamics
authors: Yukinari Kurita
comments: 15pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408148
abstract: Recently, Tegmark pointed out that the superposition of ion states involved in the superposition of firing and resting states of a neuron quickly decohere. It undoubtedly indicates that neural networks cannot work as quantum computers, or computers taking advantage of coherent states. Does it also mean that the brain can be modeled as a neural network obeying classical physics? Here we show that it does not mean that the brain can be modeled as a neural network obeying classical physics. A brand new perspective in research of neural networks from quantum theoretical aspect is presented.

id: quant-ph/0408149
title: Nonexponential decay of an unstable quantum system: Small-$Q$-value s-wave decay
authors: Toshifumi Jittoh, Shigeki Matsumoto, Joe Sato, Yoshio Sato, Koujin Takeda
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A71 (2005) 012109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408149
abstract: We study the decay process of an unstable quantum system, especially the deviation from the exponential decay law. We show that the exponential period no longer exists in the case of the s-wave decay with small $Q$ value, where the $Q$ value is the difference between the energy of the initially prepared state and the minimum energy of the continuous eigenstates in the system. We also derive the quantitative condition that this kind of decay process takes place and discuss what kind of system is suitable to observe the decay.

id: quant-ph/0408150
title: Quantum algorithms for a set of group theoretic problems
authors: Stephen Fenner, Yong Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408150
abstract: We study two group theoretic problems, GROUP INTERSECTION and DOUBLE COSET MEMBERSHIP, in the setting of black-box groups, where DOUBLE COSET MEMBERSHIP generalizes a set of problems, including GROUP MEMBERSHIP, GROUP FACTORIZATION, and COSET INTERSECTION. No polynomial-time classical algorithms are known for these problems. We show that for solvable groups, there exist efficient quantum algorithms for GROUP INTERSECTION if one of the underlying solvable groups has a smoothly solvable commutator subgroup, and for DOUBLE COSET MEMBERSHIP if one of the underlying solvable groups is smoothly solvable. We also study the decision versions of STABILIZER and ORBIT COSET, which generalizes GROUP INTERSECTION and DOUBLE COSET MEMBERSHIP, respectively. We show that they reduce to ORBIT COSET under certain conditions. Finally, we show that DOUBLE COSET MEMBERSHIP and DOUBLE COSET NONMEMBERSHIP have zero knowledge proof systems.

id: quant-ph/0408151
title: On the q-analogue of the hydrogen atom
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Tidjani Negadi
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A 24 (1991) 5283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408151
abstract: The discrete spectrum of a q-analogue of the hydrogen atom is obtained from a deformation of the Pauli equations. As an alternative, the spectrum is derived from a deformation of the four-dimensional oscillator arising in the application of the Kustaanheimo-Stiefel transformation to the hydrogen atom. A model of the 2s-2p Dirac shift is proposed in the context of q-deformations.

id: quant-ph/0408152
title: Quantum state transfer via the ferromagnetic chain in a spatially modulated field
authors: T. Shi, Ying Li, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032309(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408152
abstract: We show that a perfect quantum state transmission can be realized through a spin chain possessing a commensurate structure of energy spectrum, which is matched with the corresponding parity. As an exposition of the mirror inversion symmetry discovered by Albanese et. al (quant-ph/0405029), the parity matched the commensurability of energy spectra help us to present the novel pre-engineered spin systems for quantum information transmission. Based on the these theoretical analysis, we propose a protocol of near-perfect quantum state transfer by using a ferromagnetic Heisenberg chain with uniform coupling constant, but an external parabolic magnetic field. The numerical results shows that the initial Gaussian wave packet in this system with optimal field distribution can be reshaped near-perfectly over a longer distance.

id: quant-ph/0408153
title: Linear optics implementation of weak values in Hardy's paradox
authors: S. E. Ahnert, M. C. Payne
comments: 4 pages, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 042102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408153
abstract: We propose an experimental setup for the implementation of weak measurements in the context of the gedankenexperiment known as Hardy's Paradox. As Aharonov et al. showed, these weak values form a language with which the paradox can be resolved. Our analysis shows that this language is indeed consistent and experimentally testable. It also reveals exactly how a combination of weak values can give rise to an apparently paradoxical result.

id: quant-ph/0408154
title: Atomic diffraction by a thin phase grating
authors: C. Henkel, J.-Y. Courtois, A. Aspect
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, electronic copy of print version. jphysfr.sty file included
journal: J. Phys. II France 4 (1994) 1955-74
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408154
abstract: We present a semiclassical perturbation method for the description of atomic diffraction by a weakly modulated potential. It proceeds in a way similar to the treatment of light diffraction by a thin phase grating, and consists in calculating the atomic wavefunction by means of action integrals along the classical trajectories of the atoms in the absence of the modulated part of the potential. The capabilities and the validity condition of the method are illustrated on the well-known case of atomic diffraction by a Gaussian standing wave. We prove that in this situation the perturbation method is equivalent to the Raman-Nath approximation, and we point out that the usually-considered Raman-Nath validity condition can lead to inaccuracies in the evaluation of the phases of the diffraction amplitudes. The method is also applied to the case of an evanescent wave reflection grating, and an analytical expression for the diffraction pattern at any incidence angle is obtained for the first time. Finally, the application of the method to other situations is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0408155
title: Entanglement of degenerate ground state for spin 1 and 1/2 pair
authors: You-Quan Li, Guo-Qiang Zhu, Xue-An Zhao
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; one figure is replaced and one subsection is revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408155
abstract: We study the entanglement feature of the ground state of a system composed of spin 1 and 1/2 parts. The concurrence vector is shown to be consistent with the measurement of von Neumann entropy for such system. In the light of the ground state degeneracy, we suggest a average concurrence to measure the entanglement of Hilbert subspace. The entanglement property of both a general superposition as well as the mixture of the degenerate ground states are discussed by means of average concurrence and the negativity respectively.

id: quant-ph/0408156
title: A modulated mirror for atomic interferometry
authors: C. Henkel, A. M. Steane, R. Kaiser, J. Dalibard
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, re-typed electronic copy of print version. jphysfr.sty file included
journal: J. Phys. II (France) 4 (1994) 1877-96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408156
abstract: A novel atomic beam splitter, using reflection of atoms off an evanescent light wave, is investigated theoretically. The intensity or frequency of the light is modulated in order to create sidebands on the reflected de Broglie wave. The weights and phases of the various sidebands are calculated using three different approaches: the Born approximation, a semiclassical path integral approach, and a numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. We show how this modulated mirror could be used to build practical atomic interferometers.

id: quant-ph/0408157
title: Separability analyses of two-qubit density matrices
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408157
abstract: We pursue a number of analytical directions, motivated to some extent initially by the possibility of developing a methodology for formally proving or disproving a certain conjecture of quantum-theoretical relevance (quant-ph/0308037). It asserts that the 15-dimensional volume occupied by the separable two-qubit density matrices is (\sqrt{2}-1)/3, as measured in terms of the statistical distinguishability metric (four times the Bures or minimal monotone metric). Somewhat disappointingly, however, the several various analyses that we report, though we hope of independent/autonomous interest, appear to provide small indication of how to definitively resolve the conjecture. Among our studies here are ones of: (1) the Bures volumes of the two-dimensional sections of Bloch vectors for a number of the Jakobczyk-Siennicki two-qubit scenarios; (2) the structure of certain convex polytopes of separable density matrices; and (3) the diagonalization of 15 x 15 Bures metric tensors.

id: quant-ph/0408158
title: Selective coherence transfers in homonuclear dipolar coupled spin systems
authors: Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Suddhasattwa Sinha, Jonathan Baugh, Timothy F. Havel, David G. Cory
comments: 4 pages. Paper re-submitted with minor changes to clarify that the scheme demonstrated is not an exact mapping onto a nearest neighbor system. However, this is the first demonstration of a controlled evolution in a subspace of an extended spin system, on a timescale that is much larger than the dipolar dephasing time
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 020303(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408158
abstract: Mapping the physical dipolar Hamiltonian of a solid-state network of nuclear spins onto a system of nearest-neighbor couplings would be extremely useful for a variety of quantum information processing applications, as well as NMR structural studies. We demonstrate such a mapping for a system consisting of an ensemble of spin pairs, where the coupling between spins in the same pair is significantly stronger than the coupling between spins on different pairs. An amplitude modulated RF field is applied on resonance with the Larmor frequency of the spins, with the frequency of the modulation matched to the frequency of the dipolar coupling of interest. The spin pairs appear isolated from each other in the regime where the RF power (omega_1) is such that omega_weak << omega_1 << omega_strong. Coherence lifetimes within the two-spin system are increased from 19 us to 11.1 ms, a factor of 572.

id: quant-ph/0408159
title: Operational distance and fidelity for quantum channels
authors: Viacheslav P. Belavkin, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Maxim Raginsky
comments: 26 pages, amsart.cls; improved intro, fixed typos, added a reference; accepted by J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46 062106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408159
abstract: We define and study a fidelity criterion for quantum channels, which we term the minimax fidelity, through a noncommutative generalization of maximal Hellinger distance between two positive kernels in classical probability theory. Like other known fidelities for quantum channels, the minimax fidelity is well-defined for channels between finite-dimensional algebras, but it also applies to a certain class of channels between infinite-dimensional algebras (explicitly, those channels that possess an operator-valued Radon--Nikodym density with respect to the trace in the sense of Belavkin--Staszewski) and induces a metric on the set of quantum channels which is topologically equivalent to the CB-norm distance between channels, precisely in the same way as the Bures metric on the density operators associated with statistical states of quantum-mechanical systems, derived from the well-known fidelity (`generalized transition probability') of Uhlmann, is topologically equivalent to the trace-norm distance.

id: quant-ph/0408160
title: Control Theoretical Approach to Quantum Control
authors: M. Yanagisawa
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408160
abstract: We derive the quantum stochastic master equation for bosonic systems without measurement theory but control theory. It is shown that the quantum effect of the measurement can be represented as the correlation between dynamical and measurement noise. The transfer function representation allows us to analyze a dynamical uncertainty relation which imposes strong constraints on the dynamics of the linear quantum systems. In particular, quantum systems preserving the minimum uncertainty are uniquely determined. For large spin systems, it is shown that local dynamics are equivalent to bosonic systems. Considering global behavior, we find quantum effects to which there is no classical counterparts. A control problem of producing maximal entanglement is discussed as the stabilization of a filtering process.

id: quant-ph/0408161
title: Quantum dynamics of a model for two Josephson-coupled Bose--Einstein condensates
authors: A. P. Tonel, J. Links, A. Foerster
comments: 15 pages, 8 eps figures, accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: J, Phys. A 38 (2005) 1235
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408161
abstract: In this work we investigate the quantum dynamics of a model for two single-mode Bose--Einstein condensates which are coupled via Josephson tunneling. Using direct numerical diagonalisation of the Hamiltonian, we compute the time evolution of the expectation value for the relative particle number across a wide range of couplings. Our analysis shows that the system exhibits rich and complex behaviours varying between harmonic and non-harmonic oscillations, particularly around the threshold coupling between the delocalised and self-trapping phases. We show that these behaviours are dependent on both the initial state of the system as well as regime of the coupling. In addition, a study of the dynamics for the variance of the relative particle number expectation and the entanglement for different initial states is presented in detail.

id: quant-ph/0408162
title: Algorithm-Based Analysis of Collective Decoherence in Quantum Computation
authors: Shoko Utsunomiya, Cyrus P. Master, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408162
abstract: The information in quantum computers is often stored in identical two-level systems (spins or pseudo-spins) that are separated by a distance shorter than the characteristic wavelength of a reservoir which is responsible for decoherence. In such a case, the collective spin-reservoir interaction, rather than an individual spin-reservoir interaction, may determine the decoherence characteristics. We use computational basis states, symmetrized spin states and spin coherent states to study collective decoherence in the implementation of various quantum algorithms. A simple method of implementing quantum algorithms using stable subradiant states and avoiding unstable Dicke's superradiant states and Schrodinger's cat states is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0408163
title: Scalar Field Fluctuations between Parallel Plates
authors: Konrad Tywoniuk, Finn Ravndal
comments: 10 pages, no figures; added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408163
abstract: Quantum fluctuations of a scalar field and its derivatives are calculated when the field is confined between two parallel plates satisfying Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions. After regulation these fluctuations diverge in general when one approaches one of the plates. The energy density and the pressure between the plates is only consistent with the total Casimir energy when the canonical energy-momentum tensor is augmented by the Huggins term so to satisfy the requirement of conformal invariance for a massless, scalar field.

id: quant-ph/0408164
title: On the notion of a macroscopic quantum system
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: A. Yu. Khrennikov, The principle of supplementarity: A contextual probabilistic viewpoint to the interference of probabilities, and the incompatibility of variables in quantum mechanics. Foundations of Physics, 35, N. 10, 1-35 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408164
abstract: It is proposed to define "quantumness" of a system (micro or macroscopic, physical, biological, social, political) by starting with understanding that quantum mechanics is a statistical theory. It says us only about probability distributions. The only possible criteria of quantum behaviour are statistical ones. Therefore I propose to consider any system which produces quantum statistics as quantum ("quantumlike"). A possible test is based on the interference of probabilities. I was mainly interested in using such an approach to "quantumness" to extend the domain of applications of quantum mathematical formalism and especially to apply it to cognitive sciences. There were done experiments on interference of probabilities for ensembles of students and a nontrivial interference was really found. One could say that the quantum statistical behaviour might be expected. But the problem was not so trivial. Yes, we might expect nonclassical statistics, but there was no reason to get the quantum one, i.e., cos-interference. But we got it!

id: quant-ph/0408165
title: Entanglement properties of multipartite entangled states under the influence of decoherence
authors: M. Hein, W. D¨¹r, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 27 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032350 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408165
abstract: We investigate entanglement properties of multipartite states under the influence of decoherence. We show that the lifetime of (distillable) entanglement for GHZ-type superposition states decreases with the size of the system, while for a class of other states -namely all graph states with constant degree- the lifetime is independent of the system size. We show that these results are largely independent of the specific decoherence model and are in particular valid for all models which deal with individual couplings of particles to independent environments, described by some quantum optical master equation of Lindblad form. For GHZ states, we derive analytic expressions for the lifetime of distillable entanglement and determine when the state becomes fully separable. For all graph states, we derive lower and upper bounds on the lifetime of entanglement. To this aim, we establish a method to calculate the spectrum of the partial transposition for all mixed states which are diagonal in a graph state basis. We also consider entanglement between different groups of particles and determine the corresponding lifetimes as well as the change of the kind of entanglement with time. This enables us to investigate the behavior of entanglement under re-scaling and in the limit of large (infinite) number of particles. Finally we investigate the lifetime of encoded quantum superposition states and show that one can define an effective time in the encoded system which can be orders of magnitude smaller than the physical time. This provides an alternative view on quantum error correction and examples of states whose lifetime of entanglement (between groups of particles) in fact increases with the size of the system.

id: quant-ph/0408166
title: NMR Quantum Information Processing
authors: Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Nicolas Boulant, Zhiying Chen, David G. Cory, Isaac Chuang, Matthias Steffen
comments: 33 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol 3, 15-44 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408166
abstract: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) has provided a valuable experimental testbed for quantum information processing (QIP). Here, we briefly review the use of nuclear spins as qubits, and discuss the current status of NMR-QIP. Advances in the techniques available for control are described along with the various implementations of quantum algorithms and quantum simulations that have been performed using NMR. The recent application of NMR control techniques to other quantum computing systems are reviewed before concluding with a description of the efforts currently underway to transition to solid state NMR systems that hold promise for scalable architectures.

id: quant-ph/0408167
title: Encoding multiple quantum coherences in non-commuting bases
authors: Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Hyungjoon Cho, Paola Cappellaro, Gregory S. Boutis, David G. Cory
comments: 
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett., vol 369 (2003) 311-317
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408167
abstract: Multiple quantum coherences are typically characterised by their coherence number and the number of spins that make up the state, though only the coherence number is normally measured. We present a simple set of measurements that extend our knowledge of the multiple quantum state by recording the coherences in both the $x$ basis and the usual $z$ basis. The coherences in the two bases are related by a similarity transformation. We characterize the growth of the multiple quantum coherences via measurements in the two bases, and show that the rate varies with the coefficient of the driving term in the Hamiltonian. Such measurements in non-commuting bases provides additional information over the 1D method about the state of the spin system. In particular the measurement of coherences in a basis other than the usual $z$ basis allows us to study the dynamics of the spin system under Hamiltonians, such as the secular dipolar Hamiltonian, that conserve $z$ basis coherence number.

id: quant-ph/0408168
title: Labels for non-individuals
authors: Adonai S. Sant'Anna
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408168
abstract: Quasi-set theory is a first order theory without identity, which allows us to cope with non-individuals in a sense. A weaker equivalence relation called ``indistinguishability'' is an extension of identity in the sense that if $x$ is identical to $y$ then $x$ and $y$ are indistinguishable, although the reciprocal is not always valid. The interesting point is that quasi-set theory provides us a useful mathematical background for dealing with collections of indistinguishable elementary quantum particles. In the present paper, however, we show that even in quasi-set theory it is possible to label objects that are considered as non-individuals. We intend to prove that individuality has nothing to do with any labelling process at all, as suggested by some authors. We discuss the physical interpretation of our results.

id: quant-ph/0408169
title: Resonances and adiabatic invariance in classical and quantum scattering theory
authors: Sudhir R. Jain
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408169
abstract: We discover that the energy-integral of time-delay is an adiabatic invariant in quantum scattering theory and corresponds classically to the phase space volume. The integral thus found provides a quantization condition for resonances, explaining a series of results recently found in non-relativistic and relativistic regimes. Further, a connection between statistical quantities like quantal resonance-width and classical friction has been established with a classically deterministic quantity, the stability exponent of an adiabatically perturbed periodic orbit. This relation can be employed to estimate the rate of energy dissipation in finite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0408170
title: All-fibre source of amplitude-squeezed light pulses
authors: Markus Meissner, Christoph Marquardt, Joel Heersink, Tobias Gaber, Andr¨¦ Wietfeld, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: Journal of Optics B, Vol. 6, No. 8, pp. 652-657, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408170
abstract: An all-fibre source of amplitude squeezed solitons utilizing the self-phase modulation in an asymmetric Sagnac interferometer is experimentally demonstrated. The asymmetry of the interferometer is passively controlled by an integrated fibre coupler, allowing for the optimisation of the noise reduction. We have carefully studied the dependence of the amplitude noise on the asymmetry and the power launched into the Sagnac interferometer. Qualitatively, we find good agreement between the experimental results, a semi-classical theory and earlier numerical calculations [Schmitt etl.al., PRL Vol. 81, p.2446, (1998)]. The stability and flexibility of this all-fibre source makes it particularly well suited to applications in quantum information science.

id: quant-ph/0408171
title: On a Stroboscopic Approach to Quantum Tomography of Qudits Governed by Gaussian Semigroups
authors: Andrzej Jamio?kowski
comments: 8 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 11, 63-70 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408171
abstract: In this paper, we discuss the minimal number of observables, where expectation values at some time instant determine the trajectory of a d-level quantum system ("qudit") governed by the Gaussian semigroup. We assume that the macroscopic information about the system in question is given by the mean values of n selfadjoint operators $Q_1,...,Q_n$ at some time instants $t_1<t_2<...<t_r$, where $n<d^2-1$ and $r\leq {\rm deg} \mu(\lambda,\bBBL)$. Here $\mu(\lambda,\bBBL)$ stands for the minimal polynomial of the generator of the Gaussian flow.

id: quant-ph/0408172
title: Entanglement swapping without joint Measurement
authors: Ming Yang, Wei Song, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: Three pages, one figure
journal: Physical Review A 71, 034312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408172
abstract: We propose an entanglement swapping scheme in cavity QED. In the scheme, the previously used joint measurement is not needed. The entanglement swapping in our proposal is a non-post-selection one, i.e., after the swapping is done, the swapped entanglement is still there.

id: quant-ph/0408173
title: Reversible addition circuit using one ancillary bit with application to quantum computing
authors: Phillip Kaye
comments: After posting the original version of this note it was pointed out to me by C. Zalka that essentially the same technique for addition was used in [BCD+96]. The scenario in that paper was different, but it is clear how the technique they described generalizes to that in this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408173
abstract: Most of the work on implementing arithmetic on a quantum computer has borrowed from results in classical reversible computing (e.g. [VBE95], [BBF02], [DKR04]). These quantum networks are inherently classical, as they can be implemented with only the Toffoli gate. Draper [D00] has proposed an inherently "quantum" network for addition based on the quantum Fourier transform. His approach has the advantage that it requires no carry qubits (the previous approaches required O(n) carry qubits). The network in [D00] uses quantum rotation gates, which must either be implemented with exponential precision, or else be approximated. In this paper I give a network of O(n^3) Toffoli gates for reversibly performing in-place addition with only a single ancillary bit, demonstrating that inherently quantum techniques are not required to achieve this goal (provided we are willing to sacrifice quadratic circuit depth). After posting the original version of this note it was pointed out to me by C. Zalka that essentially the same technique for addition was used in [BCD+96]. The scenario in that paper was different, but it is clear how the technique they described generalizes to that in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0408174
title: Robustness of multi-qubit entanglement in the independent decoherence model
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 7 pages, no figures, revised version: title slightly changed and other minor revisions. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042339 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408174
abstract: We study the robustness of the GHZ (or ``cat'') class of multi-partite states under decoherence. The noise model is described by a general completely positive map for qubits independently coupled to the environment. In particular, the robustness of N-party entanglement is studied in the large N limit when (a) the number of spatially separated subsystems is fixed but the size of each subsystem becomes large (b) the size of the subsystems is fixed while their number becomes arbitrarily large. We obtain conditions for entanglement in these two cases. Among our other results, we show that the parity of an entangled state (i.e., whether it contains an even or odd number of qubits) can lead to qualitatively different robustness of entanglement under certain conditions.

id: quant-ph/0408175
title: Quantum correlations in bound-soliton pairs and trains in fiber lasers
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 70, 063817 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408175
abstract: Quantum correlations in pairs and arrays (trains) of bound solitons modeled by the complex Ginzburg-Landau equation (CGLE) are calculated numerically, on the basis of linearized equations for quantum fluctuations. We find strong correlations between the bound solitons, even though the system is dissipative. Some degree of the correlation between the photon-number fluctuations of stable bound soliton pairs and trains is attained and saturates after passing a certain distance. The saturation of the photon-number correlations is explained by the action of non- conservative terms in the CGLE. Photon-number-correlated bound soliton trains offer novel possibilities to produce multipartite entangled sources for quantum communication and computation.

id: quant-ph/0408176
title: Continuous ensembles and the $¦Ö$-capacity of infinite-dimensional channels
authors: A.S.Holevo, M.E.Shirokov
comments: 17 pages
journal: Theory of Probability and its Applications, Vol. 50, No.1, (2005), 86--114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408176
abstract: The paper is devoted to systematic study of the $\chi$-capacity (underlying the classical capacity) of infinite dimensional quantum channels. An essential feature of this case is the natural appearance of the input constraints and infinite, in general, ``continuous'' state ensembles, defined as probability measures on the set of all quantum states. By using compactness criteria from probability theory and operator theory it is shown that the set of all generalized ensembles with the average (barycenter) in a compact set of states is itself a compact subset of the set of all probability measures. With this in hand we give a sufficient condition for the existence of an optimal generalized ensemble for a constrained quantum channel. This condition can be verified in the case of Bosonic Gaussian channels with constrained mean energy. The importance of the above condition is shown by considering example of a constrained channel with no optimal generalized ensemble. In the case of convex constraints a characterization of the optimal generalized ensemble is obtained extending the `` maximal distance'' property.

id: quant-ph/0408177
title: Chaotic imaging in frequency downconversion
authors: Emiliano Puddu, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni, Maria Bondani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408177
abstract: We analyze and realize the recovery, by means of spatial intensity correlations, of the image obtained by a seeded frequency downconversion process in which the seed field is chaotic and an intensity modulation is encoded on the pump field. Although the generated field is as chaotic as the seed field and does not carry any information about the modulation of the pump, an image of the pump can be extracted by measuring the spatial intensity correlations between the generated field and one Fourier component of the seed.

id: quant-ph/0408178
title: Quantum Theory: Interpretation Cannot be Avoided
authors: Eric Dennis, Travis Norsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408178
abstract: This essay is a response to the (March 2000) Physics Today Opinion article "Quantum Theory Needs No Interpretation" by Fuchs and Peres. It was written several years ago and has been collecting electronic dust ever since Physics Today said they weren't interested. We post it here with the hope that it may still be of some interest.

id: quant-ph/0408179
title: Exploiting the randomness of the measurement basis in quantum cryptography: Secure Quantum Key Growing without Privacy Amplification
authors: Hannes R. B?hm, Paul S. B?hm, Markus Aspelmeyer, ?aslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408179
abstract: We suggest that the randomness of the choices of measurement basis by Alice and Bob provides an additional important resource for quantum cryptography. As a specific application, we present a novel protocol for quantum key distribution (QKD) which enhances the BB84 scheme by encrypting the information sent over the classical channel during key sifting. We show that, in the limit of long keys, this process prevents an eavesdropper from reproducing the sifting process carried out by the legitimate users. The inability of the eavesdropper to sift the information gathered by tapping the quantum channel reduces the amount of information that an eavesdropper can gain on the sifted key. We further show that the protocol proposed is self sustaining, and thus allows the growing of a secret key.

id: quant-ph/0408180
title: Spinor representation of Lie algebra for complete linear group
authors: C.V. Usenko, B.I. Lev
comments: Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference "Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics", Kyiv 2003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408180
abstract: Spinor representation of group GL(4,R) on special spinor space is developed. Representation space has a structure of the fiber space with the space of diagonal metricses as the base and standard spinor space as typical fiber. Non-isometric motions of the space-time entail spinor transformations which are represented by translation over fibering base in addition to standard $Spin(4,C)$ representation.

id: quant-ph/0408181
title: Wigner Rotations and Iwasawa Decompositions in Polarization Optics
authors: D. Han, Y. S. Kim, Maryln E. Noz
comments: LaTex 12 pages, two figures
journal: Phys.Rev. E60 (1999) 1036-1041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408181
abstract: Wigner rotations and Iwasawa decompositions are manifestations of the internal space-time symmetries of massive and massless particles, respectively. It is shown to be possible to produce combinations of optical filters which exhibit transformations corresponding to Wigner rotations and Iwasawa decompositions. This is possible because the combined effects of rotation, phase-shift, and attenuation filters lead to transformation matrices of the six-parameter Lorentz group applicable to Jones vectors and Stokes parameters for polarized light waves. The symmetry transformations in special relativity lead to a set of experiments which can be performed in optics laboratories.

id: quant-ph/0408182
title: Exact results for `bouncing' Gaussian wave packets
authors: M. Belloni, M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 14 pages, 1 embedded .eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408182
abstract: We consider time-dependent Gaussian wave packet solutions of the Schrodinger equation (with arbitrary initial central position, x_0, and momentum, p_0, for an otherwise free-particle, but with an infinite wall at x=0, so-called bouncing wave packets. We show how difference or mirror solutions of the form psi(x,t)-psi(-x,t) can, in this case, be normalized exactly, allowing for the evaluation of a number of time-dependent expectation values and other quantities in closed form. For example, we calculate <p^2>_t explicitly which illustrates how the free-particle kinetic (and hence total) energy is affected by the presence of the distant boundary. We also discuss the time dependence of the expectation values of position, <x>_t, and momentum, <p>_t, and their relation to the impulsive force during the `collision' with the wall. Finally, the x_0,p_0 --> 0 limit is shown to reduce to a special case of a non-standard free-particle Gaussian solution. The addition of this example to the literature then expands on the relatively small number of Gaussian solutions to quantum mechanical problems with familiar classical analogs (free particle, uniform acceleration, harmonic oscillator, unstable oscillator, and uniform magnetic field) available in closed form.

id: quant-ph/0408183
title: Generalized Quantum Walk in Momentum Space
authors: A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Siri, G. Abal, R. Donangelo
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408183
abstract: We consider a new model of quantum walk on a one-dimensional momentum space that includes both discrete jumps and continuous drift. Its time evolution has two stages; a Markov diffusion followed by localized dynamics. As in the well known quantum kicked rotor, this model can be mapped into a localized one-dimensional Anderson model. For exceptional (rational) values of its scale parameter, the system exhibits resonant behavior and reduce to the usual discrete time quantum walk on the line.

id: quant-ph/0408184
title: Is repulsive Casimir force physical?
authors: Sung Nae Cho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408184
abstract: The Casimir force for charge-neutral, perfect conductors of non-planar geometric configurations have been investigated. The configurations are: (1) the plate-hemisphere, (2) the hemisphere-hemisphere and (3) the spherical shell. The resulting Casimir forces for these physical arrangements have been found to be attractive. The repulsive Casimir force found by Boyer for a spherical shell is a special case requiring stringent material property of the sphere, as well as the specific boundary conditions for the wave modes inside and outside of the sphere. The necessary criteria in detecting Boyer's repulsive Casimir force for a sphere are discussed at the end of this investigation.

id: quant-ph/0408185
title: Information Measures for Inferring Quantum Mechanics
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 11 pages; Further refinements: Final Journal version
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 6231-6238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408185
abstract: Starting from the Hamilton-Jacobi equation describing a classical ensemble, one may infer a quantum dynamics using the principle of maximum uncertainty. That procedure requires an appropriate measure of uncertainty: Such a measure is constructed here from physically motivated constraints. It leads to a unique single parameter extension of the classical dynamics that is equivalent to the usual linear quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0408186
title: Two questions on quantum statistics
authors: Pekka Lahti, Juha-Pekka Pellonpaa, Kari Ylinen
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 339 (2005) 18-22
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408186
abstract: The determination of a quantum observable from the first and second moments of its measurement outcome statistics is investigated. Operational conditions for the moments of a probability measure are given which suffice to determine the probability measure. Differential operators are shown to lead to physically relevant cases where the expectation values of large classes of noncommuting observables do not distinguish superpositions of states and, in particular, where the full moment information does not determine the probability measure.

id: quant-ph/0408187
title: Principle of supplementarity: contextual probabilistic viewpoint to interference, complementarity and incompatibility
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: English, reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408187
abstract: There is presented a contextual statistical model of the probabilistic description of physical reality. Here contexts (complexes of physical conditions) are considered as basic elements of reality. There is discussed the relation with QM. We propose a realistic analogue of Bohr's principle of complementarity. In the opposite to the Bohr's principle, our principle has no direct relation with mutual exclusivity for observables. To distinguish our principle from the Bohr's principle and to give better characterization, we change the terminology and speak about supplementarity, instead of complementarity. Supplementarity is based on the interference of probabilities. It has quantitative expression trough a coefficient which can be easily calculated from experimental statistical data. We need not appeal to the Hilbert space formalism and noncommutativity of operators representing observables. Moreover, in our model there exists pairs of supplementary observables which can not be represented in the complex Hilbert space. There are discussed applications of the principle of supplementarity outside quantum physics.

id: quant-ph/0408188
title: Representation of the contextual statistical model by hyperbolic amplitudes
authors: A. Yu. Khrennikov
comments: We discuss possible applications of hyperbolic quantum mechnaics (in particular, in string theory and cosmology as well as cognitive sciences); there is also given a general scheme of experimental verification of hyperbolic quantum mechanics through statistical verification of hyperbolic interference
journal: J. Math. Phys., 46, N.6, 062111 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408188
abstract: We continue the development of a so called contextual statistical model (here context has the meaning of a complex of physical conditions). It is shown that, besides contexts producing the conventional trigonometric $\cos$-interference, there exist contexts producing the hyperbolic $\cos$-interference. Starting with the corresponding interference formula of total probability we represent such contexts by hyperbolic probabilistic amplitudes or in the abstract formalism by normalized vectors of a hyperbolic analogue of the Hilbert space. There is obtained a hyperbolic Born's rule. Incompatible observables are represented by noncommutative operators.

id: quant-ph/0408189
title: Periodic square-well potential and spontaneous breakdown of PT-symmetry
authors: V. Jakubsky, M. Znojil
comments: 2nd Int. Workshop "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics"
journal: Czechoslovak J. Phys. 54 (2004) 1101 - 1106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408189
abstract: A particle moving on a circle in a purely imaginary one-step potential is studied in both the exact and broken $PT$-symmetric regime.

id: quant-ph/0408190
title: Stabilizer states and Clifford operations for systems of arbitrary dimensions, and modular arithmetic
authors: Erik Hostens, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408190
abstract: We describe generalizations of the Pauli group, the Clifford group and stabilizer states for qudits in a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension d. We examine a link with modular arithmetic, which yields an efficient way of representing the Pauli group and the Clifford group with matrices over the integers modulo d. We further show how a Clifford operation can be efficiently decomposed into one and two-qudit operations. We also focus in detail on standard basis expansions of stabilizer states.

id: quant-ph/0408191
title: What is wrong with von Neumann's theorem on "no hidden variables"
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408191
abstract: It is shown that, although correct mathematically, the celebrated 1932 theorem of von Neumann which is often interpreted as proving the impossibility of the existence of "hidden variables" in Quantum Mechanics, is in fact based on an assumption which is physically not reasonable. Apart from that, the alleged conclusion of von Neumann proving the impossibility of the existence of "hidden variables" was already set aside in 1952 by the counterexample of the possibility of a physical theory, such as given by what is usually called the "Bohmian Mechanics". Similar arguments apply to other two well known mathematical theorems, namely, of Gleason, and of Kochen and Specker, which have often been seen as equally proving the impossibility of the existence of "hidden variables" in Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0408192
title: Differential entropy and time
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Final, unabridged version; this http URL Dedicated to Professor Rafael Sorkin on his 60th birthday
journal: Entropy 7: 253-299,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408192
abstract: We give a detailed analysis of the Gibbs-type entropy notion and its dynamical behavior in case of time-dependent continuous probability distributions of varied origins: related to classical and quantum systems. The purpose-dependent usage of conditional Kullback-Leibler and Gibbs (Shannon) entropies is explained in case of non-equilibrium Smoluchowski processes. A very different temporal behavior of Gibbs and Kullback entropies is confronted. A specific conceptual niche is addressed, where quantum von Neumann, classical Kullback-Leibler and Gibbs entropies can be consistently introduced as information measures for the same physical system. If the dynamics of probability densities is driven by the Schr\"{o}dinger picture wave-packet evolution, Gibbs-type and related Fisher information functionals appear to quantify nontrivial power transfer processes in the mean. This observation is found to extend to classical dissipative processes and supports the view that the Shannon entropy dynamics provides an insight into physically relevant non-equilibrium phenomena, which are inaccessible in terms of the Kullback-Leibler entropy and typically ignored in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0408193
title: Distinguishability of non-orthogonal density matrices does not imply violations of the second law
authors: Piero G. L. Mana
comments: LaTeX2e, RevTeX4, 10 pages, 6 figures. V2: small changes, additional references, and additional note on the issue of the "reduced dynamics" of "open quantum systems initially entangled with the environment". V3: additional changes and references. V4: amply extended introduction with discussion of "quantum" ideal gases and semi-permeable membranes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408193
abstract: The hypothetical possibility of distinguishing preparations described by non-orthogonal density matrices does not necessarily imply a violation of the second law of thermodynamics, as was instead stated by von Neumann. On the other hand, such a possibility would surely mean that the particular density-matrix space (and related Hilbert space) adopted would not be adequate to describe the hypothetical new experimental facts. These points are shown by making clear the distinction between physical preparations and the density matrices which represent them, and then comparing a "quantum" thermodynamic analysis given by Peres with a "classical" one given by Jaynes.

id: quant-ph/0408194
title: A Single Photon Source With Linear Optics and Squeezed States
authors: Casey R. Myers, Marie Ericsson, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0408194
abstract: Quantum information processing using photons has recently been stimulated by the suggestion to use linear optics, single photon sources and detectors. The recent work by Knill has also shown that errors in photon detectors leads to a high error rate threshold (around 29%). An important missing element are good single photon sources. In this paper we show how to make a single photon source using squeezed states, linear optics and conditional measurement. We use degenerate squeezed vacuum states, in contrast to the normal non-degenerate squeezed vacuum states used for single photon production. We show that we can get a photon with certainty when detectors click appropriately, the last event happening up to around 25% of the time. We also show the robustness of this method with respect to a variety of potential imperfections.

id: cond-mat/0408001
title: Non-additivity of decoherence rates in superconducting qubits
authors: Guido Burkard, Frederico Brito
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 054528 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408001
abstract: We show that the relaxation and decoherence rates 1/T_1 and 1/T_2 of a qubit coupled to several noise sources are in general not additive, i.e., that the total rates are not the sums of the rates due to each individual noise source. To demonstrate this, we calculate the relaxation and pure dephasing rates 1/T_1 and 1/T_\phi of a superconducting (SC) flux qubit in the Born-Markov approximation in the presence of several circuit impedances Z_i using network graph theory and determine their deviation from additivity (the mixing term). We find that there is no mixing term in 1/T_\phi and that the mixing terms in 1/T_1 and 1/T_2 can be positive or negative, leading to reduced or enhanced relaxation and decoherence times T_1 and T_2. The mixing term due to the circuit inductance L at the qubit transition frequency \omega_{01} is generally of second order in \omega_{01}L/Z_i, but of third order if all impedances Z_i are pure resistances. We calculate T_{1,2} for an example of a SC flux qubit coupled to two impedances.

id: cond-mat/0408035
title: Appearance of Topological Phases in Superconducting Nanocircuits
authors: Mateusz Cholascinski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4, References added, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 067004 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408035
abstract: We construct non-Abelian geometric transformations in superconducting nanocircuits, which resemble in properties the Aharonov-Bohm phase for an electron transported around a magnetic flux line. The effective magnetic fields can be strongly localized, and the path is traversed in the region where the energy separation between the states involved is at maximum, so that the adiabaticity condition is weakened. In particular, we present a scheme of topological charge pumping.

id: cond-mat/0408051
title: Single qubit measurements with an asymmetric single-electron transistor
authors: S.A. Gurvitz, G.P. Berman
comments: 4 pages, more explanations added, Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 073303 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408051
abstract: We investigate qubit measurements using a single electron transistor (SET). Applying the Schr\"odinger equation to the entire system we find that an asymmetric SET is considerably more efficient than a symmetric SET. The asymmetric SET becomes close to an ideal detector in the large asymmetry limit. We also compared the SET detector with a point-contact detector. This comparison allows us to illuminate the relation between information gain in the measurement process and the decoherence generated by these measurement devices.

id: cond-mat/0408133
title: Fundamentals of Nano-Thermodynamics
authors: M. Hartmann, G. Mahler, O. Hess
comments: To appear in: Handbook of Theoretical and Computational Nanotechnology (American Scientific Publishers)
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408133
abstract: Recent progress in the synthesis and processing of nano-structured materials and systems calls for an improved understanding of thermal properties on small length scales. In this context, the question whether thermodynamics and, in particular, the concept of temperature can apply on the nanoscale is of central interest. Here we consider a quantum system consisting of a regular chain of elementary subsystems with nearest neighbour interactions and assume that the total system is in a canonical state with temperature $T$. We analyse, under what condition the state factors into a product of canonical density matrices with respect to groups of $n$ subsystems each, and when these groups have the same temperature $T$. In quantum systems the minimal group size $n_{\textrm{min}}$ depends on the temperature $T$, contrary to the classical case. As examples, we apply our analysis to a harmonic chain and different types of Ising spin chains. For the harmonic chain, which successfully describes thermal properties of insulating solids, our approach gives a first quantitative estimate of the minimal length scale on which temperature can exist: This length scale is found to be constant for temperatures above the Debye temperature and proportional to $T^{-3}$ below. We finally apply the harmonic chain model to various materials of relevance for technical applications and discuss the results. These show that, indeed, high temperatures can exist quite locally, while low temperatures exist on larger scales only. This has striking consequences: In quasi 1-dimensional systems, like Carbon-Nanotubes, room temperatures (300 Kelvin) exist on length scales of 1 $\mu$m, while very low temperatures (10 Kelvin) can only exist on scales larger than 1 mm.

id: cond-mat/0408148
title: Ultrafast initialization and QND-readout of a spin qubit via control of nanodot-vacuum coupling
authors: Ren-Bao Liu, Wang Yao, L. J. Sham
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 081306(R), (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408148
abstract: Ultrafast initialization enables fault-tolerant processing of quantum information while QND readout enables scalable quantum computation. By spatially assembling photon resonators and wave-guides around an n-doped nanodot and by temporally designing optical pump pulses, an efficient quantum pathway can be established from an electron spin to a charged exciton to a cavity photon and finally to a flying photon in the waveguide. Such control of vacuum-nanodot coupling can be exploited for ultrafast initialization and QND readout of the spin, which are particularly compatible with the optically driven spin quantum computers.

id: cond-mat/0408198
title: The Sine-Gordon Wobble
authors: German Ka"lbermann
comments: Revised version, journal reference: Journal of physics A 37, 11603 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408198
abstract: Nonperturbative, oscillatory, winding number one solutions of the Sine-Gordon equation are presented and studied numerically. We call these nonperturbative shape modes {\sl wobble} solitons. Perturbed Sine-Gordon kinks are found to decay to {\sl wobble} solitons.

id: cond-mat/0408287
title: Quantum logic operations and creation of entanglement in a scalable superconducting quantum computer with long-range constant interaction between qubits
authors: G. P. Berman, A. R. Bishop, D. I. Kamenev, A. Trombettoni
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408287
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional chain of many superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), serving as charge qubits. Each SQUID is coupled to its nearest neighbors through constant capacitances. We study the quantum logic operations and implementation of entanglement in this system. Arrays with two and three qubits are considered in detail. We show that the creation of entanglement with an arbitrary number of qubits can be implemented, without systematic errors, even when the coupling between qubits is not small. A relatively large coupling constant allows one to increase the clock speed of the quantum computer. We analytically and numerically demonstrate the creation of the entanglement for this case, which can be a good test for the experimental implementation of a relatively simple quantum protocol with many qubits. We discuss a possible application of our approach for implementing universal quantum logic for more complex algorithms by decreasing the coupling constant and, correspondingly, decreasing the clock speed. The errors introduced by the long-range interaction for the universal logic gates are estimated analytically and calculated numerically. Our results can be useful for experimental implementation of quantum algorithms using controlled magnetic fluxes and gate voltages applied to the SQUIDs. The algorithms discussed in this paper can be implemented using already existing technologies in superconducting systems with constant inter-qubit coupling.

id: cond-mat/0408316
title: The quantum measurement process in an exactly solvable model
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 7 pages revtex, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408316
abstract: An exactly solvable model for a quantum measurement is discussed which is governed by hamiltonian quantum dynamics. The $z$-component $\hat s_z$ of a spin-1/2 is measured with an apparatus, which itself consists of magnet coupled to a bath. The initial state of the magnet is a metastable paramagnet, while the bath starts in a thermal, gibbsian state. Conditions are such that the act of measurement drives the magnet in the up or down ferromagnetic state according to the sign of $s_z$ of the tested spin. The quantum measurement goes in two steps. On a timescale $1/\sqrt{N}$ the off-diagonal elements of the spin's density matrix vanish due to a unitary evolution of the tested spin and the $N$ apparatus spins; on a larger but still short timescale this is made definite by the bath. Then the system is in a `classical' state, having a diagonal density matrix. The registration of that state is a quantum process which can already be understood from classical statistical mechanics. The von Neumann collapse and the Born rule are derived rather than postulated.

id: cond-mat/0408356
title: Guidance and Control in a Josephson Charge Qubit
authors: J. F. Ralph, E. J. Griffith, T. D. Clark, M. J. Everitt
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70, 214521 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408356
abstract: In this paper we propose a control strategy based on a classical guidance law and consider its use for an example system: a Josephson charge qubit. We demonstrate how the guidance law can be used to attain a desired qubit state using the standard qubit control fields.

id: cond-mat/0408357
title: An intrinsic limit to quantum coherence due to spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Jeroen van den Brink, Jan Zaanen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 230401 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408357
abstract: We investigate the influence of spontaneous symmetry breaking on the decoherence of a many-particle quantum system. This decoherence process is analyzed in an exactly solvable model system that is known to be representative of symmetry broken macroscopic systems in equilibrium. It is shown that spontaneous symmetry breaking imposes a fundamental limit to the time that a system can stay quantum coherent. This universal timescale is $t_{spon} \simeq 2\pi N \hbar / (k_B T)$, given in terms of the number of microscopic degrees of freedom $N$, temperature $T$, and the constants of Planck ($\hbar$) and Boltzmann ($k_B$).

id: cond-mat/0408366
title: Entanglement entropy in a boundary impurity model
authors: Gregory Levine
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 266402 (2004)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408366
abstract: Boundary impurities are known to dramatically alter certain bulk properties of 1+1 dimensional strongly correlated systems. The entanglement entropy of a zero temperature Luttinger liquid bisected by a single impurity is computed using a novel finite size scaling/bosonization scheme. For a Luttinger liquid of length 2L and UV cut off, e, the boundary impurity correction (\delta S) to the bulk logarithmic entanglement entropy (S_{ent} ~ ln(L/e)) scales as \delta S ~ y ln(L/e), where y is the renormalized impurity coupling constant. In this way, the bulk entanglement entropy within a region is related to scattering from the region's boundary. In the repulsive case (g<1), \delta S diverges (negatively) suggesting that the bulk entropy vanishes. Our results are consistent with the recent conjecture that entanglement entropy decreases irreversibly along renormalization group flow.

id: cond-mat/0408367
title: AC-Stark Shift and Dephasing of a Superconducting Qubit Strongly Coupled to a Cavity Field
authors: D. I. Schuster, A. Wallraff, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R.-S. Huang, J. Majer, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 123602 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408367
abstract: We have spectroscopically measured the energy level separation of a superconducting charge qubit coupled non-resonantly to a single mode of the electromagnetic field of a superconducting on-chip resonator. The strong coupling leads to large shifts in the energy levels of both the qubit and the resonator in this circuit quantum electrodynamics system. The dispersive shift of the resonator frequency is used to non-destructively determine the qubit state and to map out the dependence of its energy levels on the bias parameters. The measurement induces an ac-Stark shift of 0.6 MHz per photon in the qubit level separation. Fluctuations in the photon number (shot noise) induce level fluctuations in the qubit leading to dephasing which is the characteristic back-action of the measurement. A cross-over from lorentzian to gaussian line shape with increasing measurement power is observed and theoretically explained. For weak measurement a long intrinsic dephasing time of T_2 > 200 ns of the qubit is found.

id: cond-mat/0408376
title: Stable particlelike solitons with multiply-quantized vortex lines in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J. Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages, PRA in press
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 041601
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408376
abstract: We show that a multiply-quantized vortex line core can be energetically stable in a harmonically trapped two-component atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. The structure, in which the condensate component with the vortex line is surrounded by the second component forming a vortex ring, can be identified as a particlelike Skyrmion with a multiply-quantized winding number, and closely resembles cosmic vortons.

id: cond-mat/0408377
title: Full Counting Statistics with Spin-sensitive Detectors reveals Spin-singlets
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo, Yuli V. Nazarov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 210601 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408377
abstract: We study the full counting statistics of electric current to several drain terminals with spin-dependent entrance conductances. We show that the statistics of charge transfers can be interpreted in terms of single electrons and spin-singlet pairs coming from the source. If the source contains transport channels of high transparency, a significant fraction of electrons comes in spin-singlet pairs.

id: cond-mat/0408503
title: A Langevin analysis of fundamental noise limits in Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman Spectroscopy
authors: Kunal K. Das, G. S. Agarwal, Yu. M. Golubev, M. O. Scully
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 013802 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408503
abstract: We use a Langevin approach to analyze the quantum noise in Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman Spectroscopy (CARS) in several experimental scenarios: with continuous wave input fields acting simultaneously and with fast sequential pulsed lasers where one field scatters off the coherence generated by other fields; and for interactions within a cavity and in free space. In all the cases, the signal as well as the quantum noise due to spontaneous decay and decoherence in the medium are shown to be described by the same general expression. Our theory in particular shows that for short interaction times, the medium noise is not important and the efficiency is limited only by the intrinsic quantum nature of the photon. We obtain fully analytic results \emph{without} making an adiabatic approximation, the fluctuations of the medium and the fields are self solved consistently.

id: cond-mat/0408537
title: Minimal work principle: proof and counterexamples
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 13 pages, revtex, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408537
abstract: The minimal work principle states that work done on a thermally isolated equilibrium system is minimal for adiabatically slow (reversible) realization of a given process. This principle, one of the formulations of the second law, is studied here for finite (possibly large) quantum systems interacting with macroscopic sources of work. It is shown to be valid as long as the adiabatic energy levels do not cross. If level crossing does occur, counter examples are discussed, showing that the minimal work principle can be violated and that optimal processes are neither adiabatically slow nor reversible. The results are corroborated by an exactly solvable model.

id: cond-mat/0408542
title: Exchange in a silicon-based quantum dot quantum computer architecture
authors: S.N. Coppersmith, Seungwon Lee, Paul von Allmen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to APL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408542
abstract: In bulk silicon, intervalley electronic interference has been shown to lead to strong oscillations in the exchange coupling between impurity electronic wavefunctions, posing a serious manufacturability problem for proposed quantum computers. Here we show that this problem does not arise in proposed architectures using Si/SiGe quantum dots because of the large in-plane strain in Si quantum wells together with the strong confinement potential typical of heterostructures.

id: cond-mat/0408558
title: Direct numerical observation of the Euclidean resonance
authors: V. V. Makhro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408558
abstract: We present results of direct numerical calculations for the problem of quantum tunneling through the time-dependent potential barrier. Computations clearly demonstrate existence of the effect of the underbarrier resonance.

id: cond-mat/0408588
title: Circuit theory for decoherence in superconducting charge qubits
authors: Guido Burkard
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; v2: published version; typo in Eq.(30) corrected, minor changes, reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 144511 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408588
abstract: Based on a network graph analysis of the underlying circuit, a quantum theory of arbitrary superconducting charge qubits is derived. Describing the dissipative elements of the circuit with a Caldeira-Leggett model, we calculate the decoherence and leakage rates of a charge qubit. The analysis includes decoherence due to a dissipative circuit element such as a voltage source or the quasiparticle resistances of the Josephson junctions in the circuit. The theory presented here is dual to the quantum circuit theory for superconducting flux qubits. In contrast to spin-boson models, the full Hilbert space structure of the qubit and its coupling to the dissipative environment is taken into account. Moreover, both self and mutual inductances of the circuit are fully included.

id: cond-mat/0408624
title: Finite-Size Scaling Exponents of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 237204 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0408624
abstract: We study the ground state properties of the critical Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. Using the Holstein-Primakoff boson representation, and the continuous unitary transformation technique, we compute explicitly the finite-size scaling exponents for the energy gap, the ground state energy, the magnetization, and the spin-spin correlation functions. Finally, we discuss the behavior of the two-spin entanglement in the vicinity of the phase transition.

id: gr-qc/0408010
title: On the interaction of mesoscopic quantum systems with gravity
authors: Claus Kiefer, Carsten Weber
comments: 27 pages, study for ESA: typos corrected, references and clarifications added. To appear in Annalen der Physik
journal: Annalen Phys. 14 (2005) 253-278
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0408010
abstract: We review the different aspects of the interaction of mesoscopic quantum systems with gravitational fields. We first discuss briefly the foundations of general relativity and quantum mechanics. Then, we consider the non-relativistic expansions of the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations in the post-Newtonian approximation. After a short overview of classical gravitational waves, we discuss two proposed interaction mechanisms: (i) the use of quantum fluids as generator and/or detector of gravitational waves in the laboratory, and (ii) the inclusion of gravitomagnetic fields in the study of the properties of rotating superconductors. The foundations of the proposed experiments are explained and evaluated.

id: gr-qc/0408028
title: A relativistic toy model for back-reaction
authors: G¨¹nter Plunien, Marcus Ruser, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 8 pages RevTeX, 4 figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:4361-4376,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0408028
abstract: We consider a quantized massless and minimally coupled scalar field on a circular closed string with a time-dependent radius $R(t)$, whose undisturbed dynamics is governed by the Nambu-Goto action. Within the semi-classical treatment, the back-reaction of the quantum field onto the string dynamics is taken into account in terms of the renormalized expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor including the trace anomaly. The results indicate that the back-reaction could prevent the collapse of the circle $R\downarrow0$ -- however, the semi-classical picture fails to describe the string dynamics at the turning point (i.e., possible bounce) at finite values of $R$ and $\dot R$. The fate of the closed string after that point (e.g., oscillation or eternal acceleration) cannot be determined within the semi-classical picture and thus probably requires the full quantum treatment. PACS: 04.62.+v, 03.70.+k, 11.15.Kc, 04.60.-m.

id: gr-qc/0408037
title: Classical and Quantum Causality in Quantum Field Theory. Or, "The Quantum Universe"
authors: J. S. Eakins
comments: 398 pages, 9 figures. Thesis submitted to the University of Nottingham for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, April 2004
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0408037
abstract: Based on a number of experimentally verified physical observations, it is argued that the standard principles of quantum mechanics should be applied to the Universe as a whole. Thus, a paradigm is proposed in which the entire Universe is represented by a pure state wavefunction contained in a factorisable Hilbert space of enormous dimension, and where this statevector is developed by successive applications of operators that correspond to unitary rotations and Hermitian tests. Moreover, because by definition the Universe contains everything, it is argued that these operators must be chosen self-referentially; the overall dynamics of the system is envisaged to be analogous to a gigantic, self-governing, quantum computation. The issue of how the Universe could choose these operators without requiring or referring to a fictitious external observer is addressed. The processes by which conventional physics might be recovered from this fundamental, mathematical and global description of reality are particularly investigated. Specifically, it is demonstrated that by considering the changing properties, separabilities and factorisations of both the state and the operators as the Universe proceeds though a sequence of discrete computations, familiar notions such as classical distinguishability, particle physics, space, time, special relativity and endo-physical experiments can all begin to emerge from the proposed picture. A pregeometric vision of cosmology is therefore discussed, with all of physics ultimately arising from the relationships occurring between the elements of the underlying mathematical structure.

id: gr-qc/0408098
title: Exact uncertainty approach in quantum mechanics and quantum gravity
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: Latex, 14 pages; plenary talk presented at the 4th Australasian Conference on General Relativity and Gravitation (Melbourne, January 7-9, 2004); Proceedings to appear in GRG
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.37:1505-1515,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0408098
abstract: The assumption that an ensemble of classical particles is subject to nonclassical momentum fluctuations, with the fluctuation uncertainty fully determined by the position uncertainty, has been shown to lead from the classical equations of motion to the Schroedinger equation. This 'exact uncertainty' approach may be generalised to ensembles of gravitational fields, where nonclassical fluctuations are added to the field momentum densities, of a magnitude determined by the uncertainty in the metric tensor components. In this way one obtains the Wheeler-DeWitt equation of quantum gravity, with the added bonus of a uniquely specified operator ordering. No a priori assumptions are required concerning the existence of wavefunctions, Hilbert spaces, Planck's constant, linear operators, etc. Thus this approach has greater transparency than the usual canonical approach, particularly in regard to the connections between quantum and classical ensembles. Conceptual foundations and advantages are emphasised.

id: hep-ph/0408006
title: New methods of testing Lorentz violation in electrodynamics
authors: Michael E. Tobar, Peter Wolf, Alison Fowler, John G. Hartnett
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D71:025004,2005; Erratum-ibid.D75:049902,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0408006
abstract: We investigate experiments that are sensitive to the scalar and parity-odd coefficients for Lorentz violation in the photon sector of the Standard Model Extension (SME). We show that of the classic tests of special relativity, Ives-Stilwell (IS) experiments are sensitive to the scalar coefficient, but at only parts in 10^5 for the state-of-the-art experiment. We then propose asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometers with different electromagnetic properties in the two arms, including recycling techniques based on travelling wave resonators to improve the sensitivity. With present technology we estimate that the scalar and parity odd coefficients may be measured at sensitivity better than parts in 10^11 and 10^15 respectively.

id: hep-ph/0408105
title: The Dirac field and the possible origin of gravity
authors: Alexander Makhlin
comments: 4 pages, Submitted to PRL; minor corrections of grammar and style
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0408105
abstract: The spin connections of the Dirac field have three ingredients that are connected with the Ricci rotations, the Maxwell field, and an axial field which minimally interacts with the axial current. I demonstrate that the axial field provides an effective mechanism of auto-localization of the Dirac field into compact objects. The condition that these objects are stable (the energy-momentum is self-adjoint) leads to Einstein's field equations. The Dirac field with its spin connection seem to be a natural material carrier of the space-time continuum in which compact objects are moving along geodesic lines. The long distance effect of the axial field is indistinguishable from Newton's gravity, which reveals the microscopic nature of gravity and the origin of the gravitational mass.

id: hep-ph/0408184
title: Facets of the spinless Salpeter equation
authors: Wolfgang Lucha, F.F. Schoberl
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Recent Res.Devel.Phys. 5 (2004) 1423
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0408184
abstract: The spinless Salpeter equation represents the simplest and most straightforward generalization of the Schroedinger equation of standard nonrelativistic quantum theory towards the inclusion of relativistic kinematics. Moreover, it can be also regarded as a well-defined approximation to the Bethe-Salpeter formalism for descriptions of bound states in relativistic quantum field theories. The corresponding Hamiltonian is, in contrast to all Schroedinger operators, a nonlocal operator. Because of the nonlocality, constructing analytical solutions for such kind of equation of motion proves difficult. In view of this, different sophisticated techniques have been developed in order to extract rigorous analytical information about these solutions. This review introduces some of these methods and compares their significance by application to interactions relevant in physics.

id: hep-ph/0408221
title: A search for the minimal unified field theory. I. Parallel transport of Dirac field
authors: Alexander Makhlin
comments: 10 pages, Revtex4; Version 2: typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0408221
abstract: Two real vector fields are revealed as spin connections of the spinor field, which is introduced as a representation of the local Lorentz group by Dirac spinors. One of these fields is identified as the Maxwell field. Another one is the axial field, which is sufficient to describe parity nonconservation effects in atoms and it is sensitive to the second internal degree of freedom of the Dirac spinor field. The polarization associated with this degree of freedom is a distinctive characteristic of the Dirac spinor field in spatially closed localized states. The short-distance behavior of the axial field can lead to a not self-adjoint Dirac Hamiltonian and trigger a ``falling onto a centre'' phenomenon. In the second part of this work, the axial field will be linked to the gravity.

id: hep-ph/0408222
title: A search for the minimal unified field theory. II.Spinor matter and gravity
authors: Alexander Makhlin
comments: 13 pages, Revtex4; Version 2: typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0408222
abstract: The spin connections of the Dirac field have three ingredients that are connected with the Ricci rotations, the Maxwell field, and an axial field which is coupled to the axial current. I demonstrate that the axial field provides an effective mechanism of auto-localization of the Dirac field into compact objects. A non-linear system of Dirac and sine-Gordon equations that has a potential to yield a mass spectrum is derived. The condition that the compact objects are stable (the energy-momentum is self-adjoint) leads to the Einstein's field equations. The Dirac field with its spin connection seem to be a natural material carrier of the space-time continuum in which the compact objects are moving along the geodesic lines. The long distance effect of the axial field is indistinguishable from the Newton's gravity which reveals the microscopic nature of gravity and the origin of the gravitational mass.

id: hep-th/0408017
title: Regularization as quantization in reducible representations of CCR
authors: Marek Czachor, Jan Naudts
comments: minor extensions, version submitted for publication
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.46:70-101,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408017
abstract: A covariant quantization scheme employing reducible representations of canonical commutation relations with positive-definite metric and Hermitian four-potentials is tested on the example of quantum electrodynamic fields produced by a classical current. The scheme implies a modified but very physically looking Hamiltonian. We solve Heisenberg equations of motion and compute photon statistics. Poisson statistics naturally occurs and no infrared divergence is found even for pointlike sources. Classical fields produced by classical sources can be obtained if one computes coherent-state averages of Heisenberg-picture operators. It is shown that the new form of representation automatically smears out pointlike currents. We discuss in detail Poincar\'e covariance of the theory and the role of Bogoliubov transformations for the issue of gauge invariance. The representation we employ is parametrized by a number that is related to R\'enyi's $\alpha$. It is shown that the ``Shannon limit" $\alpha\to 1$ plays here a role of correspondence principle with the standard regularized formalism.

id: hep-th/0408028
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Theory and its Holomorphic Representation: Introduction and Some Applications
authors: F. Kleefeld
comments: 35 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408028
abstract: Present Hermitian Quantum Theory, i.e. Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Field Theory, is revised and replaced by a consistent non-Hermitian formalism called non-Hermitian Quantum Theory (NHQT) or (Anti)Causal Quantum Theory ((A)CQT) after lining out some inherent inconsistencies and problems arising in the context of causality, which is observed to introduce an indefinite metric in canonical commutation relations. Choosing some (very selective) historical approach to introduce necessary terminology and explain complications when quantizing non-Hermitian systems in the presence of an indefinite metric we propose a way how to construct a causal, analytic, Poincare invariant, and local NHQT, the spacial representation of which is related to the so-called holomorphic representation used in complex analysis. Besides providing a revised antiparticle, spinor, and probability concept, a new neutrino Lagrangean, two distinct time-reversal operations, and generalized non-Hermitian Poincare transformations, we will apply NHQT to consider three important issues: PT-symmetry and non-Hermitian similarity transforms, non-Hermitian supersymmetry, and the construction of an asymptotically free theory of strong interactions without gluons.

id: hep-th/0408062
title: Entanglement in Relativistic Quantum Field Theory
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 5 pages. v1: Submitted for publication in May 2004. v2: minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.D70:105001,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408062
abstract: I present some general ideas about quantum entanglement in relativistic quantum field theory, especially entanglement in the physical vacuum. Here, entanglement is defined between different single particle states (or modes), parameterized either by energy-momentum together with internal degrees of freedom, or by spacetime coordinate together with the component index in the case of a vector or spinor field. In this approach, the notion of entanglement between different spacetime points can be established. Some entanglement properties are obtained as constraints from symmetries, e.g., under Lorentz transformation, space inversion, time reverse and charge conjugation.

id: hep-th/0408093
title: The Spin Interaction of a Dirac Particle in an Aharonov-Bohm Potential in First Order Scattering
authors: A.Albeed, M.S.Shikakhwa
comments: 9 pages, two figures.Published version. Title and content slightly modified
journal: Int.J.Theor. Phys. vol.46, pp 405 (2007)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408093
abstract: For a Dirac particle in an Aharonov-Bohm (AB) potential, it is shown that the spin interaction (SI) operator which governs the transitions in the spin sector of the first order S-matrix is related to one of the generators of rotation in the spin space of the particle. This operator, which is given by the projection of the spin operator $\mathbf{\Sigma}$ along the direction of the total momentum of the system, and the two operators constructed from the projections of the $\mathbf{\Sigma}$ operator along the momentum transfer and the z-directions close the SU(2) algebra.It is suggested, then, that these two directions of the total momentum and the momentum transfer form some sort of natural intrinsic directions in terms of which the spin dynamics of the scattering process at first order can be formulated conveniently. A formulation and an interpretation of the conservation of helicity at first order using the spin projection operators along these directions is presented .

id: hep-th/0408116
title: Relativity in binary systems as root of quantum mechanics and space-time
authors: W. Smilga
comments: added references, minor stylistic changes, extended title
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408116
abstract: Inspired by Bohr's dictum that "physical phenomena are observed relative to different experimental setups", this article investigates the notion of relativity in Bohr's sense, starting from a set of binary elements. The most general form of information coding within such sets requires a description by four-component states. By using Bohr's dictum as a guideline a quantum mechanical description of the set is obtained in the form of a SO(3,2) based spin network. For large (macroscopic) sub-networks a flat-space approximation of SO(3,2) leads to a Poincare symmetrical Hilbert space. The concept of a position of four-component spinors relative to macroscopic sub-networks then delivers the description of 'free' massive spin-1/2 particles with a Poincare symmetrical Hilbert space. Hence Minkowskian space-time, equipped with spin-1/2 particles, is obtained as an inherent property of a system of binary elements when individual elements are described relative to macroscopic sub-systems.

id: hep-th/0408211
title: Scalar Pair Production in the Aharonov-Bohm Potential
authors: G. Y. Shahin, M. S. Shikakhwa
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.A38:759,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0408211
abstract: In the framework of QED, scalar pair production by a single linearly polarized high-energy photon in the presence of an external Aharonov-Bohm potential is investigated. The exact scattering solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation in cylindrically symmetric field are constructed and used to write the first order transition amplitude. The matrix elements and the corresponding differential scattering cross-section are calculated. The pair production at both the nonrelativistic and the ultrarelativistic limits is discussed.

id: math-ph/0408003
title: Decay of a Bound State under a Time-Periodic Perturbation: a Toy Case
authors: Michele Correggi, Gianfausto Dell'Antonio
comments: LaTeX2e, 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 4769-4781
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0408003
abstract: We study the time evolution of a three dimensional quantum particle, initially in a bound state, under the action of a time-periodic zero range interaction with ``strength'' (\alpha(t)). Under very weak generic conditions on the Fourier coefficients of (\alpha(t)), we prove complete ionization as (t \to \infty). We prove also that, under the same conditions, all the states of the system are scattering states.

id: math-ph/0408035
title: Contravariant Densities, Complete Distances and Relative Fidelities for Quantum Channels
authors: V P Belavkin
comments: 15 pages. Reported at the Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computation conference, July 2002, Boston, USA. Published version
journal: Report in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 55, (2005) No. 1, pp 61 -77
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0408035
abstract: Introducing contravariant trace-densities for quantum states, we restore one to one correspondence between quantum operations described by normal CP maps and their trace densities as Hermitian positive operator-valued contravariant kernels. The CB-norm distance between two quantum operations with type one input algebras is explicitly expressed in terms of these densities, and this formula is also extended to a generalized CB-distances between quantum operations with type two inputs. A larger C-distance is given as the natural norm-distance for the channel densities, and another, Helinger type distance, related to minimax mean square optimization problem for purification of quantum channels, is also introduced and evaluated in terms of their contravariant trace-densities. It is proved that the Helinger type complete fidelity distance between two channels is equivalent to the CB distance at least for type one inputs, and this equivalence is also extended to type two for the generalized CB distance. An operational meaning for these distances and relative complete fidelity for quantum channels is given in terms of quantum encodings as generalized entanglements of quantum states opposite to the inputs and the output states.

id: math-ph/0408046
title: Canonical representation of spherical functions: Sylvester's theorem, Maxwell's multipoles and Majorana's sphere
authors: M. R. Dennis
comments: 16 pages, no figs
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) 9487-9500
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0408046
abstract: Any eigenfunction of the laplacian on the sphere is given in terms of a unique set of directions: these are Maxwell's multipoles, their existence and uniqueness being known as Sylvester's theorem. Here, the theorem is proved by realising the multipoles are pairs of opposite vectors in Majorana's sphere representation of quantum spins. The proof involves the physicist's standard tools of quantum angular momentum algebra, integral kernels, and gaussian integration. Various other proofs are compared, including an alternative using the calculus of spacetime spinors.

id: math-ph/0408054
title: The Dirichlet-to-Robin Transform
authors: J. D. Bondurant, S. A. Fulling
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures; RevTeX
journal: J. Phys. A 38 (2005) 1505-1532 (wording changes, reference added)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0408054
abstract: A simple transformation converts a solution of a partial differential equation with a Dirichlet boundary condition to a function satisfying a Robin (generalized Neumann) condition. In the simplest cases this observation enables the exact construction of the Green functions for the wave, heat, and Schrodinger problems with a Robin boundary condition. The resulting physical picture is that the field can exchange energy with the boundary, and a delayed reflection from the boundary results. In more general situations the method allows at least approximate and local construction of the appropriate reflected solutions, and hence a "classical path" analysis of the Green functions and the associated spectral information. By this method we solve the wave equation on an interval with one Robin and one Dirichlet endpoint, and thence derive several variants of a Gutzwiller-type expansion for the density of eigenvalues. The variants are consistent except for an interesting subtlety of distributional convergence that affects only the neighborhood of zero in the frequency variable.

id: math/0408122
title: Perfect Delaunay Polytopes and Perfect Inhomogeneous Forms
authors: Robert Erdahl, Andrei Ordine, Konstantin Rybnikov
comments: Release 3: 25 pages, 4 diagrams. A number of errors in notation, terminology, citations, and cross-references have been fixed. Note that in all diagrams kappa should read as k. A reduced 10 page version of this article will apear in the proceedings of the 2003 Voronoi Conference held in Kiev in September of 2003
journal: 
subjects: Number Theory (math.NT); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0408122
abstract: A lattice Delaunay polytope D is called perfect if it has the property that there is a unique circumscribing ellipsoid with interior free of lattice points, and with the surface containing only those lattice points that are the vertices of D. An inhomogeneous quadratic form is called perfect if it is determined by such a circumscribing ''empty ellipsoid'' uniquely up to a scale factor. Perfect inhomogeneous forms are associated with perfect Delaunay polytopes in much the way that perfect homogeneous forms are associated with perfect point lattices. We have been able to construct some infinite sequences of perfect Delaunay polytopes, one perfect polytope in each successive dimension starting at some initial dimension; we have been able to construct an infinite number of such infinite sequences. Perfect Delaunay polytopes are intimately related to the theory of Delaunay polytopes, and to Voronoi's theory of lattice types.

id: math/0408219
title: A holomorphic representation of the Jacobi algebra
authors: Stefan Berceanu
comments: 34 pages, corrected typos in accord with the printed version and the Errata in Rev. Math. Phys. Vol. 24, No. 10 (2012) 1292001 (2 pages) DOI: 10.1142/S0129055X12920018, references updated
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. Vol. 18, No. 2 (2006) 163-199
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0408219
abstract: A representation of the Jacobi algebra $\mathfrak{h}_1\rtimes \mathfrak{su}(1,1)$ by first order differential operators with polynomial coefficients on the manifold $\mathbb{C}\times \mathcal{D}_1$ is presented. The Hilbert space of holomorphic functions on which the holomorphic first order differential operators with polynomials coefficients act is constructed.

id: nlin/0408046
title: First experimental evidence for quantum echoes in scattering systems
authors: C. Dembowski, B. Dietz, T. Friedrich, H.-D. Graef, A. Heine, C. Mejia-Monasterio, M. Miski-Oglu, A. Richter, T. H. Seligman
comments: RevTex 4.0, 5 eps-figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 134102 (2004)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0408046
abstract: A self-pulsing effect termed quantum echoes has been observed in experiments with an open superconducting and a normal conducting microwave billiard whose geometry provides soft chaos, i.e. a mixed phase space portrait with a large stable island. For such systems a periodic response to an incoming pulse has been predicted. Its period has been associated to the degree of development of a horseshoe describing the topology of the classical dynamics. The experiments confirm this picture and reveal the topological information.

id: physics/0408033
title: "Information, please... ?"
authors: Paul Ginsparg
comments: 
journal: appeared as "The Truth Is Still Out There", New York Times Op-Ed, 3 Aug 2004, http://www.nytimes.com/2004/08/03/opinion/03ginsparg.html
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0408033
abstract: Stephen Hawking's recent concession that black holes do not irretrievably eradicate information after all has garnered much attention. It is refreshing to see the public focused, if just for a moment, on an important conundrum that has fascinated theoretical physicists for three decades, and prompted much conceptual progress. The scientific issues, however, remain much less settled than Dr. Hawking's celebrated wager on the question.

id: q-bio/0408022
title: Probabilistic pathway representation of cognitive information
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: J. Theor. Biology, 231, 597-613 (2004)
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0408022
abstract: We present for mental processes the program of mathematical mapping which has been successfully realized for physical processes. We emphasize that our project is not about mathematical simulation of brain's functioning as a complex physical system, i.e., mapping of physical and chemical processes in the brain on mathematical spaces. The project is about mapping of purely mental processes on mathematical spaces. We present various arguments -- philosophic, mathematical, information, and neurophysiological -- in favor of the $p$-adic model of mental space. $p$-adic spaces have structures of hierarchic trees and in our model such a tree hierarchy is considered as an image of neuronal hierarchy. Hierarchic neural pathways are considered as fundamental units of information processing. As neural pathways can go through whole body, the mental space is produced by the whole neural system. Finally, we develop Probabilistic Neural Pathway Model in that Mental States are represented by probability distributions on mental space.

id: physics/0408028
title: High Density Mesoscopic Atom Clouds in a Holographic Atom Trap
authors: J. Sebby-Strabley, R. T. R. Newell, J. O. Day, E. Brekke, T. G. Walker
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: J. Sebby-Strabley, R. T. R. Newell, J. O. Day, E. Brekke, and T. G. Walker, Phys. Rev. A 71, 021401 (2005).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0408028
abstract: We demonstrate the production of micron-sized high density atom clouds of interest for meso- scopic quantum information processing. We evaporate atoms from 60 microK, 3x10^14 atoms/cm^3 samples contained in a highly anisotropic optical lattice formed by interfering di racted beams from a holographic phase plate. After evaporating to 1 microK by lowering the con ning potential, in less than a second the atom density reduces to 8x10^13 cm^- 3 at a phase space density approaching unity. Adiabatic recompression of the atoms then increases the density to levels in excess of 1x10^15 cm^-3. The resulting clouds are typically 8 microns in the longest dimension. Such samples are small enough to enable mesoscopic quantum manipulation using Rydberg blockade and have the high densities required to investigate new collision phenomena.

