id: quant-ph/0409001
title: Finite enumerable but undecidable collections
authors: Adonai S. Sant'Anna
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409001
abstract: It is well known that in Zermelo-Fraenkel (ZF) set theory any finite set is decidable. In this paper we discuss an extension of ZF where this result is no longer valid. Such an extension is quasi-set theory and it has its origin on problems motivated by quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0409002
title: An extended class of L2-series solutions of the wave equation
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: Ann. Phys. 317.1 (2005) 152-174
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409002
abstract: We lift the constraint of a diagonal representation of the Hamiltonian by searching for square integrable bases that support an infinite tridiagonal matrix representation of the wave operator. The class of solutions obtained as such includes the discrete (for bound states) as well as the continuous (for scattering states) spectrum of the Hamiltonian. The problem translates into finding solutions of the resulting three-term recursion relation for the expansion coefficients of the wavefunction. These are written in terms of orthogonal polynomials, some of which are modified versions of known polynomials. The examples given, which are not exhaustive, include problems in one and three dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0409003
title: Causality in Propagation of a Pulse in a Nonlinear Dispersive Medium
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Tarak Nath Dey
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409003
abstract: We investigate the causal propagation of the pulse through dispersive media by very precise numerical solution of the coupled Maxwell-Bloch equations without any approximations about the strength of the input field. We study full nonlinear behavior of the pulse propagation through solid state media like ruby and alexandrite. We have demonstrated that the information carried by the discontinuity, {\it i.e}, front of the pulse, moves inside the media with velocity $c$ even though the peak of the pulse can travel either with sub-luminal or with super-luminal velocity. We extend the argument of Levi-Civita to prove that the discontinuity would travel with velocity $c$ even in a nonlinear medium.

id: quant-ph/0409004
title: "Paradoxical" coexistence of continuum of 'bound' waves and discrete set of unlimited motion states
authors: V.M. Chabanov, B.N. Zakhariev
comments: contains 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409004
abstract: We have combined two remarkable phenomena: resonance tunneling and Anderson localization. It results in unexpected spectrum reverse to usual notions. It is demonstrated by the quantum system with chaotic distribution of potential resonance tunneling traps over the whole coordinate axis. The corresponding spectrum contains continuum of 'bound' states (Anderson's localization) and discrete tunneling resonances of unlimited wave propagation. It is in contrast to the usual situation with discrete bound and continuum of scattering states.

id: quant-ph/0409005
title: Experimental demonstration of continuous variable quantum erasing
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Oliver Gl?ckl, Stefan Lorenz, Gerd Leuchs, Radim Filip
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409005
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the concept of continuous variable quantum erasing. The amplitude quadrature of the signal state is labelled to another state via a quantum nondemolition interaction, leading to a large uncertainty in the determination of the phase quadrature due to the inextricable complementarity of the two observables. We show that by erasing the amplitude quadrature information we are able to recover the phase quadrature information of the signal state.

id: quant-ph/0409006
title: Time problem in quantum mechanics and its analysis by the concept of weak measurement
authors: J. Ruseckas, B. Kaulakys
comments: 13 figures
journal: Lithuanian Journal of Physics, Vol. 44, 161-182 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409006
abstract: The model of weak measurements is applied to various problems, related to the time problem in quantum mechanics. The review and generalization of the theoretical analysis of the time problem in quantum mechanics based on the concept of weak measurements are presented. A question of the time interval the system spends in the specified state, when the final state of the system is given, is raised. Using the concept of weak measurements the expression for such time is obtained. The results are applied to the tunneling problem. A procedure for the calculation of the asymptotic tunneling and reflection times is proposed. Examples for delta-form and rectangular barrier illustrate the obtained results. Using the concept of weak measurements the arrival time probability distribution is defined by analogy with the classical mechanics. The proposed procedure is suitable to the free particles and to particles subjected to an external potential, as well. It is shown that such an approach imposes an inherent limitation to the accuracy of the arrival time definition.

id: quant-ph/0409007
title: Exact quantum master equation via the calculus on path integrals
authors: Rui-Xue Xu, Ping Cui, Xin-Qi Li, Yan Mo, YiJing Yan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409007
abstract: An exact quantum master equation formalism is constructed for the efficient evaluation of quantum non-Markovian dissipation beyond the weak system-bath interaction regime in the presence of time-dependent external field. A novel truncation scheme is further proposed and compared with other approaches to close the resulting hierarchically coupled equations of motion. The interplay between system-bath interaction strength, non-Markovian property, and required level of hierarchy is also demonstrated with the aid of simple spin-boson systems.

id: quant-ph/0409008
title: Experimental teleportation of quantum entanglement with an optimal linear optics Bell-state analyzer
authors: Thomas Jennewein, Rupert Ursin, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409008
abstract: We demonstrate an experiment on entanglement swapping using an optimal Bell-state measurement capable of identifying two of the four Bell-states for polarization entangled photons, which is the optimum with linear optical elements. The two final photons belong to separately created paris. They are entangled after their original partner photons have been subjected to the Bell state measurement, whose outcome determines the type of entanglement of the final photon pair. The resulting violation of Bell's inequality in both cases confirms the success of the teleportation protocol.

id: quant-ph/0409009
title: Comparison of the relative entropy of entanglement and negativity
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Satoshi Ishizaka, Bohdan Horst, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409009
abstract: It is well known that for two qubits the upper bounds of the relative entropy of entanglement (REE) for a given concurrence as well as the negativity for a given concurrence are reached by pure states. We show that, by contrast, there are two-qubit mixed states for which the REE for some range of a fixed negativity is higher than that for pure states. Moreover, we demonstrate that a mixture of a pure entangled state and pure separable state orthogonal to it is likely to give the maximal REE. By noting that the negativity is a measure of entanglement cost under operations preserving positivity of partial transpose, our results provide an explicit example of operations such that, even though the entanglement cost for an exact preparation is the same, the entanglement of distillation of a mixed state can exceed that of pure states. This means that the entanglement manipulation via a pure state can result in a larger entanglement loss than that via a mixed state.

id: quant-ph/0409010
title: From Quantum To Classical Dynamics: A Landau Continuous Phase Transition With Spontaneous Superposition Breaking
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Tristan Hubsch, Milan Predojevic, Miodrag Krmar
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409010
abstract: Developing an earlier proposal (Ne'eman, Damnjanovic, etc), we show herein that there is a Landau continuous phase transition from the exact quantum dynamics to the effectively classical one, occurring via spontaneous superposition breaking (effective hiding), as a special case of the corresponding general formalism (Bernstein). Critical values of the order parameters for this transition are determined by Heisenberg's indeterminacy relations, change continuously, and are in excellent agreement with the recent and remarkable experiments with Bose condensation. It is also shown that such a phase transition can sucessfully model self-collapse (self-decoherence), as an effective classical phenomenon, on the measurement device. This then induces a relative collapse (relative decoherence) as an effective quantum phenomenon on the measured quantum object by measurement. We demonstrate this (including the case of Bose-Einstein condensation) in the well-known cases of the Stern-Gerlach spin measurement, Bell's inequality and the recently discussed quantum superposition on a mirror a la Marshall et al. These results provide for a proof that quantum mechanics, in distinction to all absolute collapse and hidden-variable theories, is local and objective. There now appear no insuperable obstacles to solving the open problems in quantum theory of measurement and foundation of quantum mechanics, and strictly within the standard quantum-mechanical formalism. Simply put, quantum mechanics is a field theory over the Hilbert space, the classical mechanics characteristics of which emerge through spontaneous superposition breaking.

id: quant-ph/0409011
title: Common Space of Spin and Spacetime
authors: Wei Min Jin
comments: 17 pages, a reference corrected, final version published on Foundations of Physics Letters in June of 2005, as a personal tribute to Einstein and Dirac
journal: Found.Phys.Lett. 18 (2005) 243-258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409011
abstract: Given Lorentz invariance in Minkowski spacetime, we investigate a common space of spin and spacetime. To obtain a finite spinor representation of the non-compact homogeneous Lorentz group including Lorentz boosts, we introduce an indefinite inner product space (IIPS) with a normalized positive probability. In this IIPS, the common momentum and common variable of a massive fermion turn out to be ``doubly strict plus-operators''. Due to this nice property, it is straightforward to show an uncertainty relation between fermion mass and proper time. Also in IIPS, the newly-defined Lagrangian operators are self-adjoint, and the fermion field equations are derivable from the Lagrangians. Finally, the nonlinear QED equations and Lagrangians are presented as an example.

id: quant-ph/0409012
title: Generalization of Hamilton-Jacobi method and its consequences in classical, relativistic, and quantum mechanics
authors: O. Chavoya-Aceves
comments: 13 pages; grammar style an numbering of equations corrected; introduction rewritten to explain the purpose of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409012
abstract: The Hamilton-Jacobi method is generalized, both, in classical and relativistic mechanics. The implications in quantum mechanics are considered in the case of Klein-Gordon equation. We find that the wave functions of Klein-Gordon theory can be considered as describing the motion of an ensemble of particles that move under the action of the electromagnetic field alone, without quantum potentials, hidden uninterpreted variables, or zero point fields. The number of particles is not locally conserved.

id: quant-ph/0409013
title: On the Harmonic approximation for large Josephson junction coupling charge qubits
authors: T. Shi, B. Chen, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Comm. Theor. Phys. 43 795(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409013
abstract: We revisit the harmonic approximation (HA) for a large Josephson junction interacting with some charge qubits through the variational approach for the quantum dynamics of the junction-qubit coupling system. By making use of numerical calculation and analytical treatment, the conditions under which HA works well can be precisely presented to control the parameters implementing the two-qubit quantum logical gate through the couplings to the large junction with harmonic oscillator (HO) Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0409014
title: Kochen-Specker Vectors
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Jean-Pierre Merlet, Brendan McKay, Norman D. Megill
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, title changed, introduction thoroughly rewritten, n-dim rotation of KS vectors defined, original Kochen-Specker 192 (117) vector system translated into MMP diagram notation with a new graphical representation, results on Tkadlec's dual diagrams added, several other new results added, journal version: to be published in J. Phys. A, 38 (2005). Web page: this http URL
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, 38, (7), 1577-1592 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409014
abstract: We give a constructive and exhaustive definition of Kochen-Specker (KS) vectors in a Hilbert space of any dimension as well as of all the remaining vectors of the space. KS vectors are elements of any set of orthonormal states, i.e., vectors in n-dim Hilbert space, H^n, n>3 to which it is impossible to assign 1s and 0s in such a way that no two mutually orthogonal vectors from the set are both assigned 1 and that not all mutually orthogonal vectors are assigned 0. Our constructive definition of such KS vectors is based on algorithms that generate MMP diagrams corresponding to blocks of orthogonal vectors in R^n, on algorithms that single out those diagrams on which algebraic 0-1 states cannot be defined, and on algorithms that solve nonlinear equations describing the orthogonalities of the vectors by means of statistically polynomially complex interval analysis and self-teaching programs. The algorithms are limited neither by the number of dimensions nor by the number of vectors. To demonstrate the power of the algorithms, all 4-dim KS vector systems containing up to 24 vectors were generated and described, all 3-dim vector systems containing up to 30 vectors were scanned, and several general properties of KS vectors were found.

id: quant-ph/0409015
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation and strong-correlation behavior of phonons in ion traps
authors: D. Porras, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 263602 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409015
abstract: We show that the dynamics of phonons in a set of trapped ions interacting with lasers is described by a Bose-Hubbard model whose parameters can be externally adjusted. We investigate the possibility of observing several quantum many-body phenomena, including (quasi) Bose-Einstein condensation as well as a superfluid-Mott insulator quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0409016
title: The Spectra of Density Operators and the Kronecker Coefficients of the Symmetric Group
authors: Matthias Christandl, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 5 pages, v2 minor changes
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., Vol. 261, No. 3, pp. 789-797 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409016
abstract: Determining the relationship between composite systems and their subsystems is a fundamental problem in quantum physics. In this paper we consider the spectra of a bipartite quantum state and its two marginal states. To each spectrum we can associate a representation of the symmetric group defined by a Young diagram whose normalised row lengths approximate the spectrum. We show that, for allowed spectra, the representation of the composite system is contained in the tensor product of the representations of the two subsystems. This gives a new physical meaning to representations of the symmetric group. It also introduces a new way of using the machinery of group theory in quantum informational problems, which we illustrate by two simple examples.

id: quant-ph/0409017
title: Producing a pure single-photon state from pure superposition states
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409017
abstract: Two pure states in superpositions of zero and one photons may be processed, via beam splitters and photodetection, to yield a pure single-photon state.

id: quant-ph/0409018
title: Schroedinger revisited:How the time-dependent wave equation follows from the Hamilton-Jacobi equation
authors: A.Granik
comments: 19 pages; Some corrections to Introduction and Conclusion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409018
abstract: It is shown how using the classical Hamilton-Jacobi equation one can arrive at the time-dependent wave equation. Although the former equation was originally used by E.Schroedinger to get the wave equation, we propose a different approach. In the first place, we do not use the principle of least action and, in addition, we arrive at the time-dependent equation, while Schroedinger (in his first seminal paper) used the least action principle and obtained the stationary wave equation. The proposed approach works for any classical Hamilton-Jacobi equation. In addition, by introducing information loss into the Hamilton-Jacobi equation we derive in an elementary fashion the wave equations (ranging from the Shroedinger to Klein-Gordon, to Dirac equations). We also apply this technique to a relativistic particle in the gravitational field and obtain the respective wave equation. All this supports 't Hooft's proposal about a possibility of arriving at quantum description from a classical continuum in the presence of information loss.

id: quant-ph/0409019
title: Instruments and channels in quantum information theory
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: 12 pages, revtex4
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 99 (2005) 425-432
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409019
abstract: While a positive operator valued measure gives the probabilities in a quantum measurement, an instrument gives both the probabilities and the a posteriori states. By interpreting the instrument as a quantum channel and by using the typical inequalities for the quantum and classical relative entropies, many bounds on the classical information extracted in a quantum measurement, of the type of Holevo's bound, are obtained in a unified manner.

id: quant-ph/0409020
title: Noise cancellation effect in quantum systems
authors: Paolo Solinas, Nino Zanghi
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409020
abstract: We consider the time evolution of simple quantum systems under the influence of random fluctuations of the control parameters. We show that when the parameters fluctuate sufficiently fast, there is a cancellation effect of the noise. We propose that such an effect could be experimentally observed by performing a simple experiment with trapped ions. As a byproduct of our analysis, we provide an explanation of the robustness against random perturbations of adiabatic population transfer techniques in atom optics.

id: quant-ph/0409021
title: Path Integral Approach to 't Hooft's Derivation of Quantum from Classical Physics
authors: Massimo Blasone, Petr Jizba, Hagen Kleinert
comments: 29 pages, RevTeX, revised version with minor changes, accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A71 (2005) 052507
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409021
abstract: We present a path-integral formulation of 't Hooft's derivation of quantum from classical physics. The crucial ingredient of this formulation is Gozzi et al.'s supersymmetric path integral of classical mechanics. We quantize explicitly two simple classical systems: the planar mathematical pendulum and the Roessler dynamical system.

id: quant-ph/0409022
title: Nonisotropic 3-level Quantum Systems: Complete Solutions for Minimum Time and Minimum Energy
authors: Ugo Boscain, Thomas Chambrion, Gregoire Charlot
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409022
abstract: We apply techniques of subriemannian geometry on Lie groups and of optimal synthesis on 2-D manifolds to the population transfer problem in a three-level quantum system driven by two laser pulses, of arbitrary shape and frequency. In the rotating wave approximation, we consider a nonisotropic model i.e. a model in which the two coupling constants of the lasers are different. The aim is to induce transitions from the first to the third level, minimizing 1) the time of the transition (with bounded laser amplitudes), 2) the energy of lasers (with fixed final time). After reducing the problem to real variables, for the purpose 1) we develop a theory of time optimal syntheses for distributional problem on 2-D-manifolds, while for the purpose 2) we use techniques of subriemannian geometry on 3-D Lie groups. The complete optimal syntheses are computed.

id: quant-ph/0409023
title: Testing a Quantum Computer
authors: Jacob D. Biamonte, Marek A. Perkowski
comments: 15 pages, 17 equations, 27 tables, 8 figures
journal: Proceedings of, KAIS, WQIS, Seoul Korea, August 29th - 31st, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409023
abstract: The problem of quantum test is formally addressed. The presented method attempts the quantum role of classical test generation and test set reduction methods known from standard binary and analog circuits. QuFault, the authors software package generates test plans for arbitrary quantum circuits using the very efficient simulator QuIDDPro[1]. The quantum fault table is introduced and mathematically formalized, and the test generation method explained.

id: quant-ph/0409024
title: From quantum circuits to adiabatic algorithms
authors: M. Stewart Siu
comments: Version accepted by and to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409024
abstract: This paper explores several aspects of the adiabatic quantum computation model. We first show a way that directly maps any arbitrary circuit in the standard quantum computing model to an adiabatic algorithm of the same depth. Specifically, we look for a smooth time-dependent Hamiltonian whose unique ground state slowly changes from the initial state of the circuit to its final state. Since this construction requires in general an n-local Hamiltonian, we will study whether approximation is possible using previous results on ground state entanglement and perturbation theory. Finally we will point out how the adiabatic model can be relaxed in various ways to allow for 2-local partially adiabatic algorithms as well as 2-local holonomic quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0409025
title: Individuality as an illusion
authors: Adonai S. Sant'Anna
comments: 23 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409025
abstract: Elementary particles in quantum mechanics (QM) are indistinguishable when sharing the same intrinsic properties and the same quantum state. So, we can consider quantum particles as non-individuals, although non-individuality is usually considered as a consequence of the formalism of QM, since the entanglement of states forbids any labelling process. We show how to consider non-individuality as one of the basic principles of QM, instead of a logical consequence. The advantages of our framework are discussed as well. We also show that even in classical particle mechanics it is possible to consider the existence of non-individual particles. One of our main contributions is to show how to derive the apparent individuality of classical particles from the assumption that all physical objects are non-individuals.

id: quant-ph/0409026
title: Correcting quantum channels by measuring the environment
authors: Patrick Hayden, Christopher King
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 5(2):156-160, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409026
abstract: The corrected capacity of a quantum channel is defined as the best one-shot capacity that can be obtained by measuring the environment and using the result to correct the output of the channel. It is shown that (i) all qubit channels have corrected capacity log 2, (ii) a product of N qubit channels has corrected capacity N log 2, and (iii) all channels have corrected capacity at least log 2. The question is posed of finding the channel with smallest corrected capacity in any dimension d.

id: quant-ph/0409027
title: Entanglement in XY Spin Chain
authors: A. R. Its, B.-Q. Jin, V. E. Korepin
comments: 8 pages and 2 figures
journal: Journal Phys. A: Math. Gen. vol 38, pages 2975-2990, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409027
abstract: We consider the ground state of the XY model on an infinite chain at zero temperature. Following Bennett, Bernstein, Popescu, and Schumacher we use entropy of a sub-system as a measure of entanglement. Vidal, Latorre, Rico and Kitaev conjectured that von Neumann entropy of a large block of neighboring spins approaches a constant as the size of the block increases. We evaluated this limiting entropy as a function of anisotropy and transverse magnetic field. We used the methods based on integrable Fredholm operators and Riemann-Hilbert problem. The entropy is singular at phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0409028
title: Quantum Computation of a Complex System : the Kicked Harper Model
authors: Benjamin Levi, Bertrand Georgeot
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E 70 (2004) 056218
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409028
abstract: The simulation of complex quantum systems on a quantum computer is studied, taking the kicked Harper model as an example. This well-studied system has a rich variety of dynamical behavior depending on parameters, displays interesting phenomena such as fractal spectra, mixed phase space, dynamical localization, anomalous diffusion, or partial delocalization, and can describe electrons in a magnetic field. Three different quantum algorithms are presented and analyzed, enabling to simulate efficiently the evolution operator of this system with different precision using different resources. Depending on the parameters chosen, the system is near-integrable, localized, or partially delocalized. In each case we identify transport or spectral quantities which can be obtained more efficiently on a quantum computer than on a classical one. In most cases, a polynomial gain compared to classical algorithms is obtained, which can be quadratic or less depending on the parameter regime. We also present the effects of static imperfections on the quantities selected, and show that depending on the regime of parameters, very different behaviors are observed. Some quantities can be obtained reliably with moderate levels of imperfection, whereas others are exponentially sensitive to imperfection strength. In particular, the imperfection threshold for delocalization becomes exponentially small in the partially delocalized regime. Our results show that interesting behavior can be observed with as little as 7-8 qubits, and can be reliably measured in presence of moderate levels of internal imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0409029
title: Why Classical Certification is Impossible in a Quantum World
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Minor edit: typos fixed, refs updated. To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 11 (2), 493-499 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409029
abstract: We give a simple proof that it is impossible to guarantee the classicality of inputs into any mistrustful quantum cryptographic protocol. The argument illuminates the impossibility of unconditionally secure quantum implementations of essentially classical tasks such as bit commitment with a certified classical committed bit, classical oblivious transfer, and secure classical multi-party computations of secret classical data. It applies to both non-relativistic and relativistic protocols.

id: quant-ph/0409030
title: Geometric origin of Eliott relation
authors: Yuri A. Serebrennikov
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 266601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409030
abstract: It has been shown that the Elliott relation results from the random acquisition of geometric phases and represents a special case of a more general situation - relaxation of the pseudo spin-1/2 induced by stochastic gauge fields.

id: quant-ph/0409031
title: Deviations from early--time quasilinear behaviour for the quantum kicked rotor near the classical limit
authors: Mark Sadgrove, Terry Mullins, Scott Parkins, Rainer Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409031
abstract: We present experimental measurements of the mean energy for the atom optics kicked rotor after just two kicks. The energy is found to deviate from the quasi--linear value for small kicking periods. The observed deviation is explained by recent theoretical results which include the effect of a non--uniform initial momentum distribution, previously applied only to systems using much colder atoms than ours.

id: quant-ph/0409032
title: A completely entangled subspace of maximal dimension
authors: B. V. Rajarama Bhat
comments: 8 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 04, No. 2, 325-330(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409032
abstract: A completely entangled subspace of a tensor product of Hilbert spaces is a subspace with no non-trivial product vector. K. R. Parthasarathy determined the maximum dimension possible for such a subspace. Here we present a simple explicit example of one such space. We determine the set of product vectors in its orthogonal complement and see that it spans whole of the orthogonal complement. This way we are able to determine the minimum dimension possible for an unextendible product basis (UPB) consisting of product vectors which are linearly independent but not necessarily mutually orthogonal.

id: quant-ph/0409033
title: Quantum Computation Based Probability Density Function Estimation
authors: Ferenc Bal¨¢zs, S¨¢ndor Imre
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, will be published by International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409033
abstract: Signal processing techniques will lean on blind methods in the near future, where no redundant, resource allocating information will be transmitted through the channel. To achieve a proper decision, however, it is essential to know at least the probability density function (pdf), which to estimate is classically a time consumption and/or less accurate hard task, that may make decisions to fail. This paper describes the design of a quantum assisted pdf estimation method also by an example, which promises to achieve the exact pdf by proper setting of parameters in a very fast way.

id: quant-ph/0409034
title: Photon localization barrier can be overcome
authors: P. Saari, M. Menert, H. Valtna
comments: Short communication -- 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Commun., 246, No. 4-6, pp. 445-450, 2005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409034
abstract: In contradistinction to a widespread belief that the spatial localization of photons is restricted by a power-law falloff of the photon energy density, I.Bialynicki-Birula [Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 5247 (1998)] has proved that any stronger -- up to an almost exponential -- falloff is allowed. We are showing that for certain specifically designed cylindrical one-photon states the localization is even better in lateral directions. If the photon state is built from the so-called focus wave mode, the falloff in the waist cross-section plane turns out to be quadratically exponential (Gaussian) and such strong localization persists in the course of propagation.

id: quant-ph/0409035
title: Quantum Verification of Matrix Products
authors: Harry Buhrman, Robert Spalek
comments: 15 pages, submitted; v2: rewritten, clarified, and fixed some proofs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409035
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm that verifies a product of two n*n matrices over any field with bounded error in worst-case time n^{5/3} and expected time n^{5/3} / min(w,sqrt(n))^{1/3}, where w is the number of wrong entries. This improves the previous best algorithm that runs in time n^{7/4}. We also present a quantum matrix multiplication algorithm that is efficient when the result has few nonzero entries.

id: quant-ph/0409036
title: Multipartite entanglement detection in bosons
authors: C. Moura Alves, D. Jaksch
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 110501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409036
abstract: We propose a simple quantum network to detect multipartite entangled states of bosons, and show how to implement this network for neutral atoms stored in an optical lattice. We investigate the special properties of cluster states, multipartite entangled states and superpositions of distinct macroscopic quantum states that can be identified by the network.

id: quant-ph/0409037
title: A neutral atom quantum register
authors: D. Schrader, I. Dotsenko, M. Khudaverdyan, Y. Miroshnychenko, A. Rauschenbeutel, D. Meschede
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 150501 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409037
abstract: We demonstrate the realization of a quantum register using a string of single neutral atoms which are trapped in an optical dipole trap. The atoms are selectively and coherently manipulated in a magnetic field gradient using microwave radiation. Our addressing scheme operates with a high spatial resolution and qubit rotations on individual atoms are performed with 99% contrast. In a final read-out operation we analyze each individual atomic state. Finally, we have measured the coherence time and identified the predominant dephasing mechanism for our register.

id: quant-ph/0409038
title: Entanglement and spin squeezing in the three-qubit transverse Ising model
authors: XiaoGuang Wang
comments: Four pages and two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409038
abstract: We study entanglement and spin squeezing in the ground state of three qubits interacting via the transverse Ising model. We give analytical results for the entanglement and spin squeezing, and a quantitative relation between the concurrence, quantifying the entanglement of two spins, and the spin squeezing parameter, measuring the degree of squeezing. Finally, by appropriately choosing the exchange interaction and strengths of the transverse field, we propose a scheme for generating entangled W state from an unentangled initial state with all spins down.

id: quant-ph/0409039
title: Multipartite Entanglement in a One-Dimensional Time Dependent Ising Model
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 17 Pages. Version to appear in Physical Review A. More readable, more introductory material
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062334 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409039
abstract: We study multipartite entanglement measures for a one-dimensional Ising chain that is capable of showing both integrable and nonintegrable behaviour. This model includes the kicked transverse Ising model, which we solve exactly using the Jordan-Wigner transform, as well as nonintegrable and mixing regimes. The cluster states arise as a special case and we show that while one measure of entanglement is large, another measure can be exponentially small, while symmetrizing these states with respect to up and down spins, produces those with large entanglement content uniformly. We also calculate exactly some entanglement measures for the nontrivial but integrable case of the kicked transverse Ising model. In the nonintegrable case we begin on extensive numerical studies that shows that large multipartite entanglement is accompanied by diminishing two-body correlations, and that time averaged multipartite entanglement measures can be enhanced in nonintegrable systems.

id: quant-ph/0409040
title: Relativistic central--field Green's functions for the RATIP package
authors: Peter Koval, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: Peter Koval and Stephan Fritzsche, Comput. Phys. Comm. 172 (2005) 187-202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409040
abstract: From perturbation theory, Green's functions are known for providing a simple and convenient access to the (complete) spectrum of atoms and ions. Having these functions available, they may help carry out perturbation expansions to any order beyond the first one. For most realistic potentials, however, the Green's functions need to be calculated numerically since an analytic form is known only for free electrons or for their motion in a pure Coulomb field. Therefore, in order to facilitate the use of Green's functions also for atoms and ions other than the hydrogen--like ions, here we provide an extension to the Ratip program which supports the computation of relativistic (one--electron) Green's functions in an -- arbitrarily given -- central--field potential $\rV(r)$. Different computational modes have been implemented to define these effective potentials and to generate the radial Green's functions for all bound--state energies $E < 0$. In addition, care has been taken to provide a user--friendly component of the Ratip package by utilizing features of the Fortran 90/95 standard such as data structures, allocatable arrays, or a module--oriented design.

id: quant-ph/0409041
title: Curve Crossing Problems: Analytically solvable model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mol. Phys. 107,165 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409041
abstract: We propose an exactly solvable model for the two state curve crossing problems. Our model assumes the coupling to be a delta function. It is used to calculate the effect of curve crossing on electronic absorption spectrum and resonance Raman excitation profile.

id: quant-ph/0409042
title: Convergence of continuous-time quantum walks on the line
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb
comments: Version to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409042
abstract: The position density of a "particle" performing a continuous-time quantum walk on the integer lattice, viewed on length scales inversely proportional to the time t, converges (as t tends to infinity) to a probability distribution that depends on the initial state of the particle. This convergence behavior has recently been demonstrated for the simplest continuous-time random walk [see quant-ph/0408140]. In this brief report, we use a different technique to establish the same convergence for a very large class of continuous-time quantum walks, and we identify the limit distribution in the general case.

id: quant-ph/0409043
title: Equiangular Spherical Codes in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Joseph M. Renes
comments: 6 pages revtex, 2 figures. Together with quant-ph/0402135, this paper subsumes quant-ph/0311106
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 5(1), 080-091 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409043
abstract: Quantum key distribution protocols based on equiangular spherical codes are introduced and their behavior under the intercept/resend attack investigated. Such protocols offer a greater range of secure noise tolerance and speed options than protocols based on their cousins, the mutually-unbiased bases, while also enabling the determination of the channel noise rate without the need to sacrifice key bits. For fixed number of signal states in a given dimension, the spherical code protocols offer Alice and Bob more noise tolerance at the price of slower key generation rates.

id: quant-ph/0409044
title: Further Difficulties with the Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: E. Comay
comments: 13 pages, 0 figures
journal: Apeiron, 12, No. 1, 26 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409044
abstract: The Dirac equation is compared with the Klein-Gordon one. Unlike the Dirac case, it is proved that the Klein-Gordon equation has problems with the Hamiltonian operator of the Schroedinger picture. A special discussion of the Pauli-Weisskopf article and that of Feshbach-Villars proves that their theories of a charged Klein-Gordon particle lack a self consistent expression for this Hamiltonian. Related difficulties are pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0409045
title: Quantum Logic Gates using q-deformed Oscillators
authors: Debashis Gangopadhyay, Mahendra Nath Sinha Roy
comments: 14 pages, latex, no changes in basic results, section-wise format for journal publication, additional material and references added
journal: Int.Jour.of Quantum Information V4, No.2, (2006) 297
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409045
abstract: We show that the quantum logic gates, {\it viz.} the single qubit Hadamard and Phase Shift gates, can also be realised using q-deformed angular momentum states constructed via the Jordan-Schwinger mechanism with two q-deformed oscillators. {\it Keywords :} quantum logic gates ; q-deformed oscillators ; quantum computation {\it PACS:} 03.67.Lx ; 02.20.Uw

id: quant-ph/0409046
title: Generalized Quantization Scheme for Two-Person Non-Zero-Sum Games
authors: Ahmad Nawaz, A. H. Toor
comments: 9 pages, 0 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37, 11457-11463 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409046
abstract: We have proposed a generalized quantization scheme for non-zero sum games which can be reduced to two existing quantization schemes under appropriate set of parameters. Some other important situations are identified which are not apparent in the exiting two quantizations schemes.

id: quant-ph/0409047
title: Detecting two-party quantum correlations in quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Marcos Curty, Otfried G¨¹hne, Maciej Lewenstein, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409047
abstract: A necessary precondition for secure quantum key distribution (QKD) is that sender and receiver can prove the presence of entanglement in a quantum state that is effectively distributed between them. In order to deliver this entanglement proof one can use the class of entanglement witness (EW) operators that can be constructed from the available measurements results. This class of EWs can be used to provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of quantum correlations even when a quantum state cannot be completely reconstructed. The set of optimal EWs for two well-known entanglement based (EB) schemes, the 6-state and the 4-state EB protocols, has been obtained recently [M. Curty et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 217903 (2004)]. Here we complete these results, now showing specifically the analysis for the case of prepare&measure (P&M) schemes. For this, we investigate the signal states and detection methods of the 4-state and the 2-state P&M schemes. For each of these protocols we obtain a reduced set of EWs. More importantly, each set of EWs can be used to derive a necessary and sufficient condition to prove that quantum correlations are present in these protocols.

id: quant-ph/0409048
title: Transport of Entanglement Through a Heisenberg-XY Spin Chain
authors: V. Subrahmanyam, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 5 Pages. 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, vol. 349, pg. 164 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409048
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of spin chains is investigated using Heisenberg-XY spin Hamiltonian dynamics. The various measures of two-qubit entanglement are calculated analytically in the time-evolved state starting from initial states with no entanglement and exactly one pair of maximally-entangled qubits. The localizable entanglement between a pair of qubits at the end of chain captures the essential features of entanglement transport across the chain, and it displays the difference between an initial state with no entanglement and an initial state with one pair of maximally-entangled qubits.

id: quant-ph/0409049
title: Universal Leakage Elimination
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Daniel A. Lidar, Lian-Ao Wu, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 14 pages, no figures, new version has references updated/fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409049
abstract: ``Leakage'' errors are particularly serious errors which couple states within a code subspace to states outside of that subspace thus destroying the error protection benefit afforded by an encoded state. We generalize an earlier method for producing leakage elimination decoupling operations and examine the effects of the leakage eliminating operations on decoherence-free or noiseless subsystems which encode one logical, or protected qubit into three or four qubits. We find that by eliminating the large class of leakage errors, under some circumstances, we can create the conditions for a decoherence free evolution. In other cases we identify a combination decoherence-free and quantum error correcting code which could eliminate errors in solid-state qubits with anisotropic exchange interaction Hamiltonians and enable universal quantum computing with only these interactions.

id: quant-ph/0409050
title: All-optical versus electro-optical quantum-limited feedback
authors: H.M. Wiseman, G.J. Milburn
comments: 21 pages. This is an old (1994) paper, but one which I thought was worth posting because in addition to what is described in abstract it has: (1) the first formulation (to my knowledge) of quantum trajectories for an arbitrary (i.e. squeezed, thermal etc.) broadband bath; (2) the prediction of a periodic modification to the detuning and damping of an oscillator for the simplest sort of all-optical feedback (i.e. a mirror) as seen in the recent experiment "Forces between a Single Atom and Its Distant Mirror Image", P. Bushev et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 223602 (2004)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 49, 4110 (1994)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409050
abstract: All-optical feedback can be effected by putting the output of a source cavity through a Faraday isolator and into a second cavity which is coupled to the source cavity by a nonlinear crystal. If the driven cavity is heavily damped, then it can be adiabatically eliminated and a master equation or quantum Langevin equation derived for the first cavity alone. This is done for an input bath in an arbitrary state, and for an arbitrary nonlinear coupling. If the intercavity coupling involves only the intensity (or one quadrature) of the driven cavity, then the effect on the source cavity is identical to that which can be obtained from electro-optical feedback using direct (or homodyne) detection. If the coupling involves both quadratures, this equivalence no longer holds, and a coupling linear in the source amplitude can produce a nonclassical state in the source cavity. The analogous electro-optic scheme using heterodyne detection introduces extra noise which prevents the production of nonclassical light. Unlike the electro-optic case, the all-optical feedback loop has an output beam (reflected from the second cavity). We show that this may be squeezed, even if the source cavity remains in a classical state.

id: quant-ph/0409051
title: Violation of a Bell inequality in particle physics experimentally verified?
authors: R.A. Bertlmann, A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B.C. Hiesmayr
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A332 (2004) 355-360
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409051
abstract: Relevant aspects for testing Bell inequalities with entangled meson-antimeson systems are analyzed. In particular, we argue that the result of A. Go, J. Mod. Optics 51, 991 (2004), which nicely illustrate the quantum entanglement of B-meson pairs, cannot be considered as a Bell-test refuting local realism.

id: quant-ph/0409052
title: Communicating Quantum Processes
authors: Simon Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: A revised version of a paper presented at the Second International Workshop on Quantum Programming Languages, Turku, Finland, July 2004. Note that the introductory sections of the paper are written with a computer science audience in mind
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409052
abstract: We define a language CQP (Communicating Quantum Processes) for modelling systems which combine quantum and classical communication and computation. CQP combines the communication primitives of the pi-calculus with primitives for measurement and transformation of quantum state; in particular, quantum bits (qubits) can be transmitted from process to process along communication channels. CQP has a static type system which classifies channels, distinguishes between quantum and classical data, and controls the use of quantum state. We formally define the syntax, operational semantics and type system of CQP, prove that the semantics preserves typing, and prove that typing guarantees that each qubit is owned by a unique process within a system. We illustrate CQP by defining models of several quantum communication systems, and outline our plans for using CQP as the foundation for formal analysis and verification of combined quantum and classical systems.

id: quant-ph/0409053
title: A nonlinear mechanism of charge qubit decoherence in a lossy cavity: the quasi normal mode approach
authors: Y. B. Gao, Y. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 2 figurs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409053
abstract: In the viewpoint of quasi normal modes, we describe a novel decoherence mechanism of charge qubit of Josephson Junctions (JJ) in a lossy micro-cavity, which can appear in the realistic experiment for quantum computation based on JJ qubit. We show that the nonlinear coupling of a charge qubit to quantum cavity field can result in an additional dissipation of resonant mode due to its effective interaction between those non-resonant modes and a resonant mode, which is induced by the charge qubit itself. We calculate the characterized time of the novel decoherence by making use of the system plus bath method.

id: quant-ph/0409054
title: Review of recent experimental progresses in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information obtained in Parametric Down Conversion Experiments at IENGF
authors: M.Genovese, G.Brida, E.Cagliero, M.Gramegna, E.Predazzi
comments: 
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 99 (2005) 185.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409054
abstract: We review some recent experimental progresses concerning Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information obtained in Quantum Optics Laboratory "Carlo Novero" at IENGF. More in details, after a short presentation of our polarization entangled photons source (based on precise superposition of two Type I PDC emission) and of the results obtained with it, we describe an innovative double slit experiment where two degenerate photons produced by PDC are sent each to a specific slit. Beyond representing an interesting example of relation between visibility of interference and "welcher weg" knowledge, this configuration has been suggested for testing de Broglie-Bohm theory against Standard Quantum Mechanics. Our results perfectly fit SQM results, but disagree with dBB predictions. Then, we discuss a recent experiment addressed to clarify the issue of which wave-particle observables are really to be considered when discussing wave particle duality. This experiments realises the Agarwal et al. theoretical proposal, overcoming limitations of a former experiment. Finally, we hint to the realization of a high-intensity high-spectral-selected PDC source to be used for quantum information studies.

id: quant-ph/0409055
title: Experimental realization of a measurement conditional unitary operation at single photon level and application to detector characterization
authors: M. Genovese, G. Brida, M. Chekhova, M.Gramegna, L. Krivitsky, S. Kulik, M.L.Rastello
comments: to appear in Proc. of SPIE meeting, Denver august 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409055
abstract: Our last experimental results on the realization of a measurement-conditional unitary operation at single photon level are presented. This gate operates by rotating by $90^o$ the polarization of a photon produced by means of Type-II Parametric Down Conversion conditional to a polarization measurement on the correlated photon. We then propose a new scheme for measuring the quantum efficiency of a single photon detection apparatus by using this set-up. We present experimental results obtained with this scheme compared with {\it traditional} biphoton calibration. Our results show the interesting potentiality of the suggested scheme.

id: quant-ph/0409056
title: On the Interpretation of Energy as the Rate of Quantum Computation
authors: Michael P. Frank
comments: Revised to address reviewer comments. Corrects an error relating to time-ordering, adds some additional references and discussion, shortened in a few places. Figures now incorporated into text
journal: Quantum Information Processing 4(4):283-334, Oct. 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409056
abstract: Over the last few decades, developments in the physical limits of computing and quantum computing have increasingly taught us that it can be helpful to think about physics itself in computational terms. For example, work over the last decade has shown that the energy of a quantum system limits the rate at which it can perform significant computational operations, and suggests that we might validly interpret energy as in fact being the speed at which a physical system is "computing," in some appropriate sense of the word. In this paper, we explore the precise nature of this connection. Elementary results in quantum theory show that the Hamiltonian energy of any quantum system corresponds exactly to the angular velocity of state-vector rotation (defined in a certain natural way) in Hilbert space, and also to the rate at which the state-vector's components (in any basis) sweep out area in the complex plane. The total angle traversed (or area swept out) corresponds to the action of the Hamiltonian operator along the trajectory, and we can also consider it to be a measure of the "amount of computational effort exerted" by the system, or effort for short. For any specific quantum or classical computational operation, we can (at least in principle) calculate its difficulty, defined as the minimum effort required to perform that operation on a worst-case input state, and this in turn determines the minimum time required for quantum systems to carry out that operation on worst-case input states of a given energy. As examples, we calculate the difficulty of some basic 1-bit and n-bit quantum and classical operations in an simple unconstrained scenario.

id: quant-ph/0409057
title: Quantum key distribution without reference frame alignment: Exploiting photon orbital angular momentum
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409057
abstract: We present a new implementation of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol that employs a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space spanned by spatial modes of the propagating beam that have a definite value of orbital angular momentum. Each photon carries $\log d$ bits of information, increasing the key generation rate of the protocol. The states used in the transmission part of the protocol are invariant under rotations about the propagation direction, making this implementation independent of the alignment between the reference frames of the sender and receiver. The protocol still works when these reference frames rotate with respect to each other.

id: quant-ph/0409058
title: Bell's Theorem: a new Derivation that Preserves Heisenberg and Locality
authors: Michael Clover
comments: 4 pages; removed references to an experiment that wouldn't prove anything, changed title to reflect new emphasis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409058
abstract: By implicitly assuming that all measurements occur simultaneously, Bell's Theorem only applied to local theories that violated Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. By explicitly introducing time into our derivation of Bell's theorem, an extra term related to the time-ordering of actual measurements is found to augment (i.e. weaken) the upper bound of the inequality. Since the same locality assumptions hold for this rederivation as for the original, we conclude that only {\em classical} measurement-order independent local hidden variable theories are constrained by Bell's inequality; time dependent, non-classical local theories (i.e. theories respecting Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle) can satisfy this new bound while exceeding Bell's limit. Unconditional nonlocality is only expected to occur with Bell parameters between $2\sqrt{2}$ and 4. This weakening of Bell's inequality is seen for the quantum Bell operator (squared) as an extra term involving the commutators of {\em local} measurement operators. We note that a factorizable second-quantized wavefunction can reproduce experimental measurements; because such wavefunctions allow local de Broglie-Bohm hidden variable modelling, we have another indication that violation of {\em Bell's} inequality does not require an acceptance of non-locality.

id: quant-ph/0409059
title: Proposal of Signaling by Interference Control of Delayed-Choice Experimental Setup
authors: Masanori Sato
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409059
abstract: We propose a new signaling system using the experimental setup of Wheeler's delayed-choice experiment previously carried out. In the delayed-choice experiment, the experimental setup shows a wave property or a particle property at the time when the experimental conditions of the wave-particle duality of photons are chosen. Choice signals can be used as transmitting signals and the wave-particle duality of photons is used as receiving signals. For example, if we choose the wave property of a photon as a transmitting signal, we detect the interference of the wave at the detector that can be used as a receiving signal. Therefore, the experimental setup of the delayed-choice experiment can transmit information through interference.

id: quant-ph/0409060
title: Quantum shutter approach to tunneling time scales with wave packets
authors: Norifumi Yamada, Gast¨®n Garc¨ªa-Calder¨®n, Jorge Villavicencio
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409060
abstract: The quantum shutter approach to tunneling time scales (G. Garc\'{\i }a-Calder\'{o}n and A. Rubio, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{55}, 3361 (1997)), which uses a cutoff plane wave as the initial condition, is extended in such a way that a certain type of wave packet can be used as the initial condition. An analytical expression for the time evolved wave function is derived. The time-domain resonance, the peaked structure of the probability density (as the function of time) at the exit of the barrier, originally found with the cutoff plane wave initial condition, is studied with the wave packet initial conditions. It is found that the time-domain resonance is not very sensitive to the width of the packet when the transmission process is in the tunneling regime.

id: quant-ph/0409061
title: Timescales for decoherence and dissipation: reasons for the success of master equations
authors: M. O. Terra Cunha, S. Geraij Mokarzel, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: One column, 5 pages, no figures, revtex 4. Improved version with corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409061
abstract: A perturbative treatment of reduced density operators of quantum subsystems is implemented in the same spirit as Fermi Golden Rule for scattering. Analytic expressions for linear entropy (a measure of purity loss, and in some cases of coherence loss) and for subsystem's energy variations (dissipation) are given. Application to electromagnetic field superposition states in a dissipative cavity is performed. Evaluation of typical field and reservoir time scales ($\tau_{F}$ and $\tau_{R}$) show that even for small temperatures they are very different. We also indicate the condition on the cutoff temperature above which the decoupling assumption is quantitatively justified.

id: quant-ph/0409062
title: General Security Definition and Composability for Quantum & Classical Protocols
authors: Michael Ben-Or, Dominic Mayers
comments: 12 pages; version 2: Minor modifications in the terminology used. The differences with Canetti's work are also better explained
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409062
abstract: We generalize the universally composable definition of Canetti to the Quantum World. The basic idea is the same as in the classical world. The main contribution is that we unfold the result in a new model which is well adapted to quantum protocols. We also simplify some aspects of the classical case. In particular, the case of protocols with an arbitrary number of layers of sub-protocols is naturally covered in the proposed model.

id: quant-ph/0409063
title: Fidelity of Gaussian channels
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
comments: Based on invited talk given by KW at XXXVI Symposium on Mathematical Physics, "Open Systems and Quantum Information," Torun, Poland, June 9-12, 2004. To be published in Open Systems and Information Dynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409063
abstract: A noisy Gaussian channel is defined as a channel in which an input field mode is subjected to random Gaussian displacements in phase space. We introduce the quantum fidelity of a Gaussian channel for pure and mixed input states, and we derive a universal scaling law of the fidelity for pure initial states. We also find the maximum fidelity of a Gaussian channel over all input states. Quantum cloning and continuous-variable teleportation are presented as physical examples of Gaussian channels to which the fidelity results can be applied.

id: quant-ph/0409064
title: Theoretical Value of the Electromagnetic Coupling Constant
authors: Yair Goldin
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure. RevTeX 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409064
abstract: An insight into bispinor analysis makes it possible to describe the electron in selfaction as a fundamental steady state. The electromagnetic theory, and the Dirac equation for the study of an electron in presence of external potentials, follow as natural extensions of the equations that rule the electron in selfaction. The electromagnetic coupling constant ($\alpha$) and the coupling constant ($\beta$) of a gauge invariant matrix vector potential are interrelated by the equation that defines the electron structure. Here, two bispinor components carry 1/3 and 2/3 of the physical properties of the electron: electric charge, mass, spin and magnetic moment. These fractions of the electron charge seem to be a feature common to both leptons and hadrons. An eigenvalue equation involving the invariants of the selfpotentials ultimately determines $\alpha$ and $\beta$.

id: quant-ph/0409065
title: A functional quantum programming language
authors: Thorsten Altenkirch, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 15 pages. Final version, to appear in Logic in Computer Science 2005
journal: Logic in Computer Science, 2005. Proceedings. 20th Annual IEEE Symposium on, 26-29 June 2005 Page(s):249 - 258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409065
abstract: We introduce the language QML, a functional language for quantum computations on finite types. Its design is guided by its categorical semantics: QML programs are interpreted by morphisms in the category FQC of finite quantum computations, which provides a constructive semantics of irreversible quantum computations realisable as quantum gates. QML integrates reversible and irreversible quantum computations in one language, using first order strict linear logic to make weakenings explicit. Strict programs are free from decoherence and hence preserve superpositions and entanglement - which is essential for quantum parallelism.

id: quant-ph/0409066
title: Causality and Cirel'son bounds
authors: H. Buhrman, S. Massar
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409066
abstract: An EPR-Bell type experiment carried out on an entangled quantum system can produce correlations stronger than allowed by local realistic theories. However there are correlations that are no-signaling and are more non local than the quantum correlations. Here we show that any correlations more non local than those achievable in an EPR-Bell type experiment necessarily allow -in the context of the quantum formalism- both for signaling and for generation of entanglement. We use our approach to rederive Cirel'son bound for the CHSH expression, and we derive a new Cirel'son type bound for qutrits. We discuss in detail the interpretation of our approach.

id: quant-ph/0409067
title: Energy levels and decoherence properties of single electron and nuclear spins in a defect center in diamond
authors: I. Popa, T. Gaebel, M. Domhan, C. Wittmann, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 70 (20): Art. No. 201203 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409067
abstract: The coherent behavior of the single electron and single nuclear spins of a defect center in diamond and a 13C nucleus in its vicinity, respectively, are investigated. The energy levels associated with the hyperfine coupling of the electron spin of the defect center to the 13C nuclear spin are analyzed. Methods of magnetic resonance together with optical readout of single defect centers have been applied in order to observe the coherent dynamics of the electron and nuclear spins. Long coherence times, in the order of microseconds for electron spins and tens of microseconds for nuclear spins, recommend the studied system as a good experimental approach for implementing a 2-qubit gate.

id: quant-ph/0409068
title: Explicit Form of the Evolution Operator of Tavis-Cummings Model : Three and Four Atoms Cases
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Tatsuo Suzuki, Yukako Wada
comments: Latex file, 10 pages. We combined quant-ph/0404034(the three atoms case) and quant-ph/0406184(the four atoms case) into an article. to appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 1(2004) 721-730
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409068
abstract: In this letter the explicit form of evolution operator of the Tavis-Cummings model with three and four atoms is given. This is an important progress in quantum optics or mathematical physics.

id: quant-ph/0409069
title: A Discrete Version of the Inverse Scattering Problem and the J-matrix Method
authors: S.A. Zaytsev
comments: 11 pages. The Laguerre basis case is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409069
abstract: The problem of the Hamiltonian matrix in the oscillator and Laguerre basis construction from the S-matrix is treated in the context of the algebraic analogue of the Marchenko method.

id: quant-ph/0409070
title: Harmonic oscillator in a rotating trap: Complete solution in 3D
authors: Tomasz Sowinski, Iwo Bialynicki-Birula
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409070
abstract: Complete description of the classical and quantum dynamics of a particle in an anisotropic, rotating, harmonic trap is given. The problem is studied in three dimensions and no restrictions on the geometry are imposed. In the generic case, for an arbitrary orientation of the rotation axis, there are two regions of instability with different characteristics. The analysis of the quantum-mechanical problem is made simple due to a direct connection between the classical mode vectors and the quantum-mechanical wave functions. This connection is obtained via the matrix Riccati equation that governs the time evolution of squeezed states of the harmonic oscillator. It is also shown that the inclusion of gravity leads to a resonant behavior -- the particles are expelled from the trap.

id: quant-ph/0409071
title: Quantum spin model fitting the Yule distribution of oligonucleotides in DNA
authors: C. Minichini, A. Sciarrino
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409071
abstract: A quantum spin chain is identified by the labels of a vector state of a Kashiwara crystal basis. The intensity of the one-spin flip is assumed to depend from the variation of the labels. The rank ordered plot of the numerically computed, averaged in time, transition probabilities is nicely fitted by a Yule distribution, which is the observed distribution of the ranked short oligonucleotides frequency in DNA.

id: quant-ph/0409072
title: Efficient generation of distant atom entanglement
authors: Grzegorz Chimczak
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409072
abstract: We show how the entanglement of two atoms, trapped in distant separate cavities, can be generated with arbitrarily high probability of success. The scheme proposed employs sudden excitation of the atoms proving that the weakly driven condition is not necessary to obtain the success rate close to unity. The modified scheme works properly even if each cavity contains many atoms interacting with the cavity modes. We also show that our method is robust against the spontaneous atomic decay.

id: quant-ph/0409073
title: Bipartite entanglement and entropic boundary law in lattice spin systems
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Radu Ionicioiu, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 10 pages, figs, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409073
abstract: We investigate bipartite entanglement in spin-1/2 systems on a generic lattice. For states that are an equal superposition of elements of a group $G$ of spin flips acting on the fully polarized state $\ket{0}^{\otimes n}$, we find that the von Neumann entropy depends only on the boundary between the two subsystems $A$ and $B$. These states are stabilized by the group $G$. A physical realization of such states is given by the ground state manifold of the Kitaev's model on a Riemann surface of genus $\mathfrak{g}$. For a square lattice, we find that the entropy of entanglement is bounded from above and below by functions linear in the perimeter of the subsystem $A$ and is equal to the perimeter (up to an additive constant) when $A$ is convex. The entropy of entanglement is shown to be related to the topological order of this model. Finally, we find that some of the ground states are absolutely entangled, i.e., no partition has zero entanglement. We also provide several examples for the square lattice.

id: quant-ph/0409074
title: A Remark on the Aharonov-Bohm Potential and a Discussion on the Electric Charge Quantization
authors: F. A. Barone, J. A. Helayel-Neto
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figure, title changed, references added, minor changes in the text, work presented at the Fourth International Winter Conference on Mathematical Methods in Physics, 09 - 13 August 2004, Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Fisicas (CBPF/MCT), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
journal: JHEP, Proceedings of Science, WC2004/038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409074
abstract: The purpose of this work is to stress on a mathematical requirement of the Stokes' theorem that, naturally, yields a reassessment of the electric charge quantization condition, which is, here, explicitly carried out in the context of the Aharonov-Bohm set-up. We argue that, by virtue of an ambiguity in the definition of the circulation of the vector potential, a modified quantization condition comes out for the electric charge that opens the way for understanding fundamental fractional charges. One does not, any longer, need to rely on the existence of a magnetic monopole to justify electric charge quantization.

id: quant-ph/0409075
title: Construction of Elementary Gates in Quantum Computation by Joint Measurement
authors: Jia-Qi Jin, Gui-Lu Long
comments: Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409075
abstract: In this paper, elementary quantum gate operations, such as the phase gate, the controlled-NOT gate, the swap and the Fredkin gate are constructed using joint measurement and pairs of entangled qubit pairs. The relation between the state of the entangled pair and the joint measurement basis is discussed. Some other generalization is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409076
title: NMR line shapes of a gas of nuclear spin-1/2 molecules in fluctuating nano-containers
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, M.G. Rudavets
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chemical Physics Letters V396 (2004) pp. 458-464
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409076
abstract: Reported in this paper is the impact of the fluctuations of the geometry of the nano-meter gas containers in the medium on the NMR line shape of the gas inside of the nano-containers. We calculate exactly the NMR line shape of the gas of spin-1/2 carrying molecules for two typical dynamics of the nano-container volume and the orientation with respect to the external magnetic field: (i) for a Gaussian stochastic dynamics, and (ii) for the regular harmonic vibrations. For the Gaussian ensemble of static disordered containers having an infinite correlation time, $\tau_{\sf c} \to \infty $, the overall line shape is shown to obey a logarithmic low frequency asymptotics, $ I(\omega) = {const} \times \ln (\frac{1}{\omega})$, at $\omega \to 0$, and exponentially decaying asymptotics in a high frequency domain. For the Gaussian ensemble of the rapidly fluctuating containers of a finite $\tau_{\sf c}$, the overall line shape has a bell-shaped profile with $\sim \omega^{-4}$ far wing behaviour. In addition, we calculate exactly a satellite structure of the NMR line shape when the nano-bubbles in a liquid are affected by the harmonic deformations due to the acoustic waves.

id: quant-ph/0409077
title: Modeling Single Electron Transfer in Si:P Double Quantum Dots
authors: K. H. Lee, A. D. Greentree, J. P. Dinale, C. C. Escott, A. S. Dzurak, R. G. Clark
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Nanotechnology
journal: Nanotechnology 16, 74-81 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409077
abstract: Solid-state systems such as P donors in Si have considerable potential for realization of scalable quantum computation. Recent experimental work in this area has focused on implanted Si:P double quantum dots (DQDs) that represent a preliminary step towards the realization of single donor charge-based qubits. This paper focuses on the techniques involved in analyzing the charge transfer within such DQD devices and understanding the impact of fabrication parameters on this process. We show that misalignment between the buried dots and surface gates affects the charge transfer behavior and identify some of the challenges posed by reducing the size of the metallic dot to the few donor regime.

id: quant-ph/0409078
title: The Universal Composable Security of Quantum Key Distribution
authors: M. Ben-Or, Michal Horodecki, D. W. Leung, D. Mayers, J. Oppenheim
comments: 
journal: Theory of Cryptography: Second Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2005, J.Kilian (ed.) Springer Verlag 2005, vol. 3378 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 386-406
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409078
abstract: The existing unconditional security definitions of quantum key distribution (QKD) do not apply to joint attacks over QKD and the subsequent use of the resulting key. In this paper, we close this potential security gap by using a universal composability theorem for the quantum setting. We first derive a composable security definition for QKD. We then prove that the usual security definition of QKD still implies the composable security definition. Thus, a key produced in any QKD protocol that is unconditionally secure in the usual definition can indeed be safely used, a property of QKD that is hitherto unproven. We propose two other useful sufficient conditions for composability. As a simple application of our result, we show that keys generated by repeated runs of QKD degrade slowly.

id: quant-ph/0409079
title: Visualizing the kinematics of relativistic wave packets
authors: Bernd Thaller
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures, movies at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409079
abstract: This article investigates some solutions of the time-dependent free Dirac equation. Visualizations of these solutions immediately reveal strange phenomena that are caused by the interference of positive- and negative-energy waves. The effects discussed here include the Zitterbewegung, the opposite direction of momentum and velocity in negative-energy wave packets, and the superluminal propagation of the wave packet's local maxima.

id: quant-ph/0409080
title: Exact entanglement bases and general bound entanglement
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409080
abstract: In this paper has been withrawn by the author due the error in the proof of theoem 1.

id: quant-ph/0409081
title: A Survey of Finite Algebraic Geometrical Structures Underlying Mutually Unbiased Quantum Measurements
authors: Michel R. P. Planat, Haret Rosu, Serge Perrine, Metod Saniga
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure to appear in Foundations of Physics, Nov. 2006 two more references added
journal: Foundations of Physics 36 (2006) 1662-1680
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409081
abstract: The basic methods of constructing the sets of mutually unbiased bases in the Hilbert space of an arbitrary finite dimension are discussed and an emerging link between them is outlined. It is shown that these methods employ a wide range of important mathematical concepts like, e.g., Fourier transforms, Galois fields and rings, finite and related projective geometries, and entanglement, to mention a few. Some applications of the theory to quantum information tasks are also mentioned.

id: quant-ph/0409082
title: Partition functions and graphs: A combinatorial approach
authors: Allan I. Solomon, Pawel Blasiak, Gerard Duchamp, Andrzej Horzela, Karol A. Penson
comments: Presented at the XI International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (SYMPHYS-11), Prague, Czech Republic, June 21-24, 2004. One figure, 10 pages, 10 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409082
abstract: Although symmetry methods and analysis are a necessary ingredient in every physicist's toolkit, rather less use has been made of combinatorial methods. One exception is in the realm of Statistical Physics, where the calculation of the partition function, for example, is essentially a combinatorial problem. In this talk we shall show that one approach is via the normal ordering of the second quantized operators appearing in the partition function. This in turn leads to a combinatorial graphical description, giving essentially Feynman-type graphs associated with the theory. We illustrate this methodology by the explicit calculation of two model examples, the free boson gas and a superfluid boson model. We show how the calculation of partition functions can be facilitated by knowledge of the combinatorics of the boson normal ordering problem; this naturally gives rise to the Bell numbers of combinatorics. The associated graphical representation of these numbers gives a perturbation expansion in terms of a sequence of graphs analogous to zero - dimensional Feynman diagrams.

id: quant-ph/0409083
title: Complementary classical fidelities as an efficient criterion for the evaluation of experimentally realized quantum operations
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, no figures, comments on quantum communication added, final version for publication in Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 160504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409083
abstract: It is shown that a good estimate of the fidelity of an experimentally realized quantum process can be obtained by measuring the outputs for only two complementary sets of input states. The number of measurements required to test a quantum network operation is therefore only twice as high as the number of measurements required to test a corresponding classical system.

id: quant-ph/0409084
title: Generalized Performance of Concatenated Quantum Codes -- A Dynamical Systems Approach
authors: Jesse Fern, Julia Kempe, Slobodan Simic, Shankar Sastry
comments: 12 pages two-column format, no figures, slightly revised version
journal: IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control 51:448-459 (March 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409084
abstract: We apply a dynamical systems approach to concatenation of quantum error correcting codes, extending and generalizing the results of Rahn et al. [1] to both diagonal and nondiagonal channels. Our point of view is global: instead of focusing on particular types of noise channels, we study the geometry of the coding map as a discrete-time dynamical system on the entire space of noise channels. In the case of diagonal channels, we show that any code with distance at least three corrects (in the infinite concatenation limit) an open set of errors. For Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes, we give a more precise characterization of that set. We show how to incorporate noise in the gates, thus completing the framework. We derive some general bounds for noise channels, which allows us to analyze several codes in detail.

id: quant-ph/0409085
title: Systematic Search of Exactly Solvable Non-Central Potentials
authors: Bulent Gonul, Mehmet Kocak
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 20, 355 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409085
abstract: Recently developed supersymmetric perturbation theory has been successfully employed to make a complete mathematical analysis the reason behind exact solvability of some non-central potentials. This investigation clarifies once more the effectiveness of the present formalism.

id: quant-ph/0409086
title: A geometric approach to the canonical reformulation of quantum mechanics
authors: Mohammad Mehrafarin
comments: final published version
journal: Theor. Math. Phys. 147 (2006) 847
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409086
abstract: The measure of distinguishability between two neighboring preparations of a physical system by a measurement apparatus naturally defines the line element of the preparation space of the system. We point out that quantum mechanics can be derived from the invariance of this line element in the canonical formulation. The canonical formulation of quantum statistical mechanics is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409087
title: Bell inequalities and linear entropy. Comment on the paper of E. Santos "Entropy inequalities and Bell inequalities fro two-qubit systems"
authors: Lech Jakobczyk
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409087
abstract: It is shown that even if the linear entropy of mixed two-qubit state is not smaller then 0.457, Bell - CHSH inequalities can be violated. This contradicts the result obtained in the paper of E. Santos [1].

id: quant-ph/0409088
title: A Random Matrix Model of Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: David R. Mitchell, Christoph Adami, Waynn Lue, Colin P. Williams
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 052324 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409088
abstract: We present an analysis of the quantum adiabatic algorithm for solving hard instances of 3-SAT (an NP-complete problem) in terms of Random Matrix Theory (RMT). We determine the global regularity of the spectral fluctuations of the instantaneous Hamiltonians encountered during the interpolation between the starting Hamiltonians and the ones whose ground states encode the solutions to the computational problems of interest. At each interpolation point, we quantify the degree of regularity of the average spectral distribution via its Brody parameter, a measure that distinguishes regular (i.e., Poissonian) from chaotic (i.e., Wigner-type) distributions of normalized nearest-neighbor spacings. We find that for hard problem instances, i.e., those having a critical ratio of clauses to variables, the spectral fluctuations typically become irregular across a contiguous region of the interpolation parameter, while the spectrum is regular for easy instances. Within the hard region, RMT may be applied to obtain a mathematical model of the probability of avoided level crossings and concomitant failure rate of the adiabatic algorithm due to non-adiabatic Landau-Zener type transitions. Our model predicts that if the interpolation is performed at a uniform rate, the average failure rate of the quantum adiabatic algorithm, when averaged over hard problem instances, scales exponentially with increasing problem size.

id: quant-ph/0409089
title: Radiative Decay Engineering by Triaxial Nanoellipsoids
authors: D.V. Guzatov, V.V. Klimov
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409089
abstract: Radiative decay rates of an atom placed near triaxial nanoellipsoid are investigated in long wavelength approximation. Analytical results are obtained in general case. It is shown that triaxial ellipsoid can be used for efficient control of decay rate of an atom, molecule or quantum dot. For example decay rate near silver ellipsoid can be enhanced by 5 orders of magnitude. It is also shown, that triaxial nanoellipsoid can be used for simultaneous efficient control of absorption and emission rates of fluorophores.

id: quant-ph/0409090
title: A new expression for mutually unbiased bases in prime power dimensions
authors: Thomas Durt
comments: This paper contains the quintessence, in a synthetic formulation, of the main results of the paper T. Durt, quant-ph/0401046, 1-24 (2004); new results concerning even dimensions and equivalence with previous approaches added the 26th of november
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409090
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases generalize the X, Y and Z qubit bases. They possess numerous applications in quantum information science. It is well-known that in prime power dimensions N=p^m (with p prime and m a positive integer) there exists a maximal set of N+1 mutually unbiased bases. In the present paper, we derive an explicit expression for those bases, in terms of the (operations of the) associated finite field (Galois division ring) of N elements. This expression is shown to be equivalent to the expressions previously obtained by Ivanovic in odd prime dimensions (J. Phys. A, 14, 3241 (1981)), and Wootters and Fields (Ann. Phys. 191, 363 (1989)) in odd prime power dimensions. In even prime power dimensions, we derive a new explicit expression for the mutually unbiased bases. The new ingredients of our approach are, basically, the following: we provide a simple expression of the generalised Pauli group in terms of the additive characters of the field and we derive an exact groupal composition law inside the elements of the commuting subsets of the generalised Pauli group, renormalised by a well-chosen phase-factor.

id: quant-ph/0409091
title: Coordination Games with Quantum Information
authors: Vladislav Kargin
comments: 10 pages, written for the audience of game-theorists
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409091
abstract: The paper discusses coordination games with remote players that have access to an entangled quantum state. It shows that the entangled state cannot be used by players for communicating information, but that in certain games it can be used for improving coordination of actions. A necessary condition is provided that helps to determine when an entangled quantum state can be useful for improving coordination.

id: quant-ph/0409092
title: Detection of incompatible properties without erasure
authors: Giuseppe Nistic¨®
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409092
abstract: In this work we show that in double-slit experiment properties incompatible with Which Slit property can be detected without erasing the knowledge of which slit each particle passes through and without affecting the point of impact on the final screen. A systematic procedure to find these particular properties is provided. A thought experiment which realizes this detection is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0409093
title: Long distance entanglement swapping with photons from separated sources
authors: H. de Riedmatten, I. Marcikic, J.A.W. van Houwelingen, W. Tittel, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409093
abstract: We report the first experimental realization of entanglement swapping over large distances in optical fibers. Two photons separated by more than two km of optical fibers are entangled, although they never directly interacted. We use two pairs of time-bin entangled qubits created in spatially separated sources and carried by photons at telecommunication wavelengths. A partial Bell state measurement is performed with one photon from each pair which projects the two remaining photons, formerly independent onto an entangled state. A visibility high enough to violate a Bell inequality is reported, after both photons have each travelled through 1.1 km of optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0409094
title: Quantum Register Physics
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 32 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409094
abstract: Motivated by Feynman's 1983 paper on the simulation of physics by computers, we present a general approach to the description of quantum experiments which uses quantum bit registers to represent the spatio-temporal changes occurring in apparatus-systems during the course of such experiments. To illustrate our ideas, we discuss the Stern-Gerlach experiment, Wollaston prisms, beam splitters, Mach-Zender interferometers, von Neumann (PVM) tests, the more general POVM formalism, and a variety of modern quantum experiments, such as two-particle interferometry and the EPR scenario.

id: quant-ph/0409095
title: Better bound on the exponent of the radius of the multipartite separable ball
authors: Leonid Gurvits, Howard Barnum
comments: 30 pp doublespaced, latex/revtex, v2 added discussion of Szarek's upper bound, and reference to work of Vidal, v3 fixed some errors (no effect on results), v4 involves major changes leading to an improved constant, same exponent, and adds references to and discussion of Szarek's work showing that exponent is essentially optimal for qubit case, and Hildebrand's alternative derivation for qubit case. To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409095
abstract: We show that for an m-qubit quantum system, there is a ball of radius asymptotically approaching kappa 2^{-gamma m} in Frobenius norm, centered at the identity matrix, of separable (unentangled) positive semidefinite matrices, for an exponent gamma = (1/2)((ln 3/ln 2) - 1), roughly .29248125. This is much smaller in magnitude than the best previously known exponent, from our earlier work, of 1/2. For normalized m-qubit states, we get a separable ball of radius sqrt(3^(m+1)/(3^m+3)) * 2^{-(1 + \gamma)m}, i.e. sqrt{3^{m+1}/(3^m+3)}\times 6^{-m/2} (note that \kappa = \sqrt{3}), compared to the previous 2 * 2^{-3m/2}. This implies that with parameters realistic for current experiments, NMR with standard pseudopure-state preparation techniques can access only unentangled states if 36 qubits or fewer are used (compared to 23 qubits via our earlier results). We also obtain an improved exponent for m-partite systems of fixed local dimension d_0, although approaching our earlier exponent as d_0 approaches infinity.

id: quant-ph/0409096
title: MUBs: From finite projective geometry to quantum phase enciphering
authors: H.C. Rosu, M. Planat, M. Saniga
comments: 5 pages, accepted for AIP Conf Book, QCMC 2004, Strathclyde, Glasgow, minor corrections
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 734, 315-318 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409096
abstract: This short note highlights the most prominent mathematical problems and physical questions associated with the existence of the maximum sets of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in the Hilbert space of a given dimension

id: quant-ph/0409097
title: The hidden phase of Fock states; quantum non-local effects
authors: Franck Lalo?
comments: a factor 1/2 added in equation (9); reference (30) completed, DOI added
journal: European Physical Journal D 33 (2005) 87-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409097
abstract: We revisit the question of how a definite phase between Bose-Einstein condensates can spontaneously appear under the effect of measurements. We first consider a system that is the juxtaposition of two subsystems in Fock states with high populations, and assume that successive individual position measurements are performed. Initially, the relative phase is totally undefined, and no interference effect takes place in the first position measurement. But, while successive measurements are accumulated, the relative phase becomes better and better known, and a clear interference pattern emerges. It turns out that all observed results can be interpreted in terms of a pre-existing, but totally unknown, relative phase, which remains exactly constant during the experiment. We then generalize the results to more condensates. We also consider other initial quantum states than pure Fock states, and distinguish between intrinsic phase of a quantum state and phase induced by measurements. Finally, we examine the case of multiple condensates of spin states. We discuss a curious quantum effect, where the measurement of the spin angular momentum of a small number of particles can induce a big angular momentum in a much larger assembly of particles, even at an arbitrary distance. This spin observable can be macroscopic, assimilable to the pointer of a measurement apparatus, which illustrates the non-locality of quantum mechanics with particular clarity.

id: quant-ph/0409098
title: Multiple-time correlation functions for non-Markovian interaction: Beyond the Quantum Regression Theorem
authors: Daniel Alonso, In¨¦s de Vega
comments: Submitted (04 Jul 04)
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 200403 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409098
abstract: Multiple time correlation functions are found in the dynamical description of different phenomena. They encode and describe the fluctuations of the dynamical variables of a system. In this paper we formulate a theory of non-Markovian multiple-time correlation functions (MTCF) for a wide class of systems. We derive the dynamical equation of the {\it reduced propagator}, an object that evolve state vectors of the system conditioned to the dynamics of its environment, which is not necessarily at the vacuum state at the initial time. Such reduced propagator is the essential piece to obtain multiple-time correlation functions. An average over the different environmental histories of the reduced propagator permits us to obtain the evolution equations of the multiple-time correlation functions. We also study the evolution of MTCF within the weak coupling limit and it is shown that the multiple-time correlation function of some observables satisfy the Quantum Regression Theorem (QRT), whereas other correlations do not. We set the conditions under which the correlations satisfy the QRT. We illustrate the theory in two different cases; first, solving an exact model for which the MTCF are explicitly given, and second, presenting the results of a numerical integration for a system coupled with a dissipative environment through a non-diagonal interaction.

id: quant-ph/0409099
title: BDSW protocol revisited: an efficient method for the key distillation without classical computational complexity
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409099
abstract: In quantum key distribution(QKD), one can use a classical CSS code to distill the final key. However, there is a constraint for the two codes in CSS code and so far it is unknown how to construct a large CSS code efficiently. Here we show that the BDSW method given by Bennett et al can be modified and the error correction and privacy amplification can be done separately with two INDEPENDENT parity matrices. With such a modification, BDSW method can be used to distill the final key without any classical computational complexity. We also apply the method to the case of imperfect source where a small fraction of signals are tagged by Eve.

id: quant-ph/0409100
title: Creating single time-bin entangled photon pairs
authors: Christoph Simon, Jean-Philippe Poizat
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 030502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409100
abstract: When a single emitter is excited by two phase-coherent pulses with a time delay, each of the pulses can lead to the emission of a photon pair, thus creating a ``time-bin entangled'' state. Double pair emission can be avoided by initially preparing the emitter in a metastable state. We show how photons from separate emissions can be made indistinguishable, permitting their use for multi-photon interference. Possible realizations are discussed. The method might also allow the direct creation of n-photon entangled states (n>2).

id: quant-ph/0409101
title: Quantum and classical fidelities for Gaussian states
authors: H. Jeong, T.C. Ralph, W.P. Bowen
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, to be published in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B special issue on Optical Quantum Information Science
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 355-362 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409101
abstract: We examine the physical significance of fidelity as a measure of similarity for Gaussian states, by drawing a comparison with its classical counterpart. We find that the relationship between these classical and quantum fidelities is not straightforward, and in general does not seem to provide insight into the physical significance of quantum fidelity. To avoid this ambiguity we propose that the efficacy of quantum information protocols be characterized by determining their transfer function and then calculating the fidelity achievable for a hypothetical pure reference input state.

id: quant-ph/0409102
title: Short-time decoherence of Josephson charge qubit nonlinearly coupling with its environment
authors: Xian-Ting Liang, Yong-Jian Xiong
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 332 (2004) 8-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409102
abstract: At first, we generally investigate the short-time decoherence of a qubit nonlinearly coupling with a bath. The measure of the decoherence is chosen as the maximum norm of the deviation density operator. Then we concretely investigate the Josephson charge qubit (JCQ) model. It is shown that at the temperature T=30mK, the loss of fidelity (due to decoherence) of the JCQ is bigger than the DiVincenzo low decoherence criterion. The decoherence will decrease with the decrease of the experimental temperature. When the temperature decreases to T=0.3mK the DiVincenzo low decoherence criterion can be satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0409103
title: Multi-dimensional trio coherent states
authors: Hyo Seok Yi, Ba An Nguyen, Jaewan Kim
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 11017-11036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409103
abstract: We introduce a novel class of higher-order, three-mode states called K-dimensional trio coherent states. We study their mathematical properties and prove that they form a complete set in a truncated Fock space. We also study their physical content by explicitly showing that they exhibit nonclassical features such as oscillatory number distribution, sub-poissonian statistics, Cauchy-Schwarz inequality violation and phase-space quantum interferences. Finally, we propose an experimental scheme to realize the state with K=2 in the quantized vibronic motion of a trapped ion.

id: quant-ph/0409104
title: A robust one-step catalytic machine for high fidelity anti-cloning and W-state generation in a multi-qubit system
authors: Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Neil F. Johnson, Luis Quiroga
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409104
abstract: We propose a physically realizable machine which can either generate multiparticle W-like states, or implement high fidelity $1 \to M$ ($M=1,2,... \infty$) anti-cloning of an arbitrary qubit state, in a single step. Moreover this universal machine acts as a catalyst in that it is unchanged after either procedure, effectively resetting itself for its next operation. It also possesses an inherent {\em immunity} to decoherence. Most importantly in terms of practical multi-party quantum communication, the machine's robustness in the presence of decoherence actually {\em increases} as the number of qubits $M$ increases.

id: quant-ph/0409105
title: Cavity broadcasting via Raman scattering
authors: Moorad Alexanian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409105
abstract: The notion of broadcasting is extended to include the case where an arbitrary input density state of a two-mode radiation field gives rise to an output state with identical marginal states for the respective modes, albeit different from the input state. The initial unknown input density state is unitarily related to the output state but is not equal to the two identical output marginal states. This extended notion of broadcasting suggests a possible way of discriminating between two noncommuting quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0409106
title: Channel kets, entangled states, and the location of quantum information
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Latex 32 pages, 4 figures in text using PSTricks. Version 3: Minor typographical errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 042337
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409106
abstract: The well-known duality relating entangled states and noisy quantum channels is expressed in terms of a channel ket, a pure state on a suitable tripartite system, which functions as a pre-probability allowing the calculation of statistical correlations between, for example, the entrance and exit of a channel, once a framework has been chosen so as to allow a consistent set of probabilities. In each framework the standard notions of ordinary (classical) information theory apply, and it makes sense to ask whether information of a particular sort about one system is or is not present in another system. Quantum effects arise when a single pre-probability is used to compute statistical correlations in different incompatible frameworks, and various constraints on the presence and absence of different kinds of information are expressed in a set of all-or-nothing theorems which generalize or give a precise meaning to the concept of ``no-cloning.'' These theorems are used to discuss: the location of information in quantum channels modeled using a mixed-state environment; the $CQ$ (classical-quantum) channels introduced by Holevo; and the location of information in the physical carriers of a quantum code. It is proposed that both channel and entanglement problems be classified in terms of pure states (functioning as pre-probabilities) on systems of $p\geq 2$ parts, with mixed bipartite entanglement and simple noisy channels belonging to the category $p=3$, a five-qubit code to the category $p=6$, etc.; then by the dimensions of the Hilbert spaces of the component parts, along with other criteria yet to be determined.

id: quant-ph/0409107
title: Experimental Hamiltonian Identification for Qubits subject to Multiple Independent Control Mechanisms
authors: Sonia G. Schirmer, Daniel K. L. Oi, Avinash Kolli, Jared H. Cole
comments: submitted to Proceedings of the QCMC04 (4 pages RevTeX, 5 figures)
journal: in AIP Conference Proceedings 734 (AIP, New York, 2004), ISBN 0-7354-0216-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409107
abstract: We consider a qubit subject to various independent control mechanisms and present a general strategy to identify both the internal Hamiltonian and the interaction Hamiltonian for each control mechanism, relying only on a single, fixed readout process such as $\sigma_z$ measurements.

id: quant-ph/0409108
title: Synchronization of internal and external degrees of freedom of atoms in a standing laser wave
authors: V.Yu. Argonov, S.V. Prants
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: V.Yu. Argonov and S.V. Prants. Synchronization of internal and external degrees of freedom of atoms in a standing laser wave. Phys. Rev. A. V.71 (2005) 053408.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409108
abstract: We consider dissipative dynamics of atoms in a strong standing laser wave and find a nonlinear dynamical effect of synchronization between center-of-mass motion and internal Rabi oscillations. The synchronization manifests itself in the phase space as limit cycles which may have different periods and riddled basins of attraction. The effect can be detected in the fluorescence spectra of atoms as equidistant sideband frequencies with the space between adjacent peaks to be inversely proportional to the value of the period of the respective limit cycle. With increasing the intensity of the laser field, we observe numerically cascades of bifurcations that eventually end up in settling a strange chaotic attractor. A broadband noise is shown to destroy a fine structure of the bifurcation scenario, but prominent features of period-1 and period-3 limit cycles survive under a weak noise. The character of the atomic motion is analyzed with the help of the friction force whose zeroes are attractor or repellor points in the velocity space. We find ranges of the laser parameters where the atomic motion resembles a random but deterministic walking of atoms erratically jumping between different wells of the optical potential. Such a random walking is shown to be fractal in the sense that the measured characteristic of the motion, time of exit of atoms from a given space of the standing wave, is a complicated function that has a self-similar structure with singularities on a Cantor set of values of one of the control parameters.

id: quant-ph/0409109
title: Quantum benchmark for storage and transmission of coherent states
authors: K. Hammerer, M.M. Wolf, E.S. Polzik, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, references added, minor changes
journal: PRL 94, 150503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409109
abstract: We consider the storage and transmission of a Gaussian distributed set of coherent states of continuous variable systems. We prove a limit on the average fidelity achievable when the states are transmitted or stored by a classical channel, i.e., a measure and repreparation scheme which sends or stores classical information only. The obtained bound is tight and serves as a benchmark which has to be surpassed by quantum channels in order to outperform any classical strategy. The success in experimental demonstrations of quantum memories as well as quantum teleportation has to be judged on this footing.

id: quant-ph/0409110
title: Continuous variable noise-free states in correlated quantum noisy channels
authors: Tohya Hiroshima, Osamu Hirota
comments: revtex4, no figures, The Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, Glasgow, UK, from 25th to 29th July 2004. To appear in the AIP Conference Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409110
abstract: We explicitly compute the evolution of the density operator of a two-mode electromagnetic field when the influence of the thermal fluctuation of the vacuum is common for both modes. From this result, we give an example in which the bundle of quantum noisy channels turns out to be noiseless for the special type of signal states due to the correlation.

id: quant-ph/0409111
title: Energy-time entangled qutrits: Bell tests and quantum communication
authors: R.T.Thew, S.Tanzilli, A.Acin, H.Zbinden, N.Gisin
comments: For the conference proceedings of QCMC 2004
journal: AIP conf. Proc. Vol. CP734, 249 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409111
abstract: We have developed a scheme to generate, control, transmit and measure entangled photonic qutrits (two photons each of dimension d = 3). A Bell test of this source has previously been reported elsewhere [1], therefore, here we focus on how the control of the system is realized. Motivated by these results, we outline how the scheme can be used for two specific quantum protocols, namely key distribution and coin tossing and discuss some of their advantages and disadvantages.

id: quant-ph/0409112
title: Persistent Entanglement in the Classical Limit
authors: M.J. Everitt, T.D. Clark, P.B. Stiffell, J.F. Ralph, A.R. Bulsara, C.J. Harland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Added results for quantum jumps to supplement existing QSD results
journal: New J. Phys. 7 (2005) 64
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409112
abstract: The apparent difficulty in recovering classical nonlinear dynamics and chaos from standard quantum mechanics has been the subject of a great deal of interest over the last twenty years. For open quantum systems - those coupled to a dissipative environment and/or a measurement device - it has been demonstrated that chaotic-like behaviour can be recovered in the appropriate classical limit. In this paper, we investigate the entanglement generated between two nonlinear oscillators, coupled to each other and to their environment. Entanglement - the inability to factorise coupled quantum systems into their constituent parts - is one of the defining features of quantum mechanics. Indeed, it underpins many of the recent developments in quantum technologies. Here we show that the entanglement characteristics of two `classical' states (chaotic and periodic solutions) differ significantly in the classical limit. In particular, we show that significant levels of entanglement are preserved only in the chaotic-like solutions.

id: quant-ph/0409113
title: Quantum marginal problem and representations of the symmetric group
authors: Alexander Klyachko
comments: AMS-LaTeX version 2.08, 47 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409113
abstract: We discuss existence of mixed state of multicomponent system with given spectrum and given reduced density matrices. We give a complete solution of the problem in terms of linear inequalities on the spectra, accompanied with extensive tables of marginal inequalities, including arrays up to 4 qubits. In the second part of the paper we pursue another approach based on reduction of the problem to representation theory of the symmetric group.

id: quant-ph/0409114
title: Two-dimensional Bloch oscillations: A Lie-algebraic approach
authors: S. Mossmann, A. Schulze, D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: 2 figures are included
journal: J. Phys. A 38, 3381 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409114
abstract: A Lie-algebraic approach successfully used to describe one-dimensional Bloch oscillations in a tight-binding approximation is extended to two dimensions. This extension has the same algebraic structure as the one-dimensional case while the dynamics shows a much richer behaviour. The Bloch oscillations are discussed using analytical expressions for expectation values and widths of the operators of the algebra. It is shown under which conditions the oscillations survive in two dimensions and the centre of mass of a wave packet shows a Lissajous like motion. In contrast to the one-dimensional case, a wavepacket shows systematic dispersion that depends on the direction of the field and the dispersion relation of the field free system.

id: quant-ph/0409115
title: A multiple-scattering approach to interatomic interactions and superradiance in inhomogeneous dielectrics
authors: Martijn Wubs, L.G. Suttorp, A. Lagendijk
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 053823 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409115
abstract: The dynamics of a collection of resonant atoms embedded inside an inhomogeneous nondispersive and lossless dielectric is described with a dipole Hamiltonian that is based on a canonical quantization theory. The dielectric is described macroscopically by a position-dependent dielectric function and the atoms as microscopic harmonic oscillators. We identify and discuss the role of several types of Green tensors that describe the spatio-temporal propagation of field operators. After integrating out the atomic degrees of freedom, a multiple-scattering formalism emerges in which an exact Lippmann-Schwinger equation for the electric field operator plays a central role. The equation describes atoms as point sources and point scatterers for light. First, single-atom properties are calculated such as position-dependent spontaneous-emission rates as well as differential cross sections for elastic scattering and for resonance fluorescence. Secondly, multi-atom processes are studied. It is shown that the medium modifies both the resonant and the static parts of the dipole-dipole interactions. These interatomic interactions may cause the atoms to scatter and emit light cooperatively. Unlike in free space, differences in position-dependent emission rates and radiative line shifts influence cooperative decay in the dielectric. As a generic example, it is shown that near a partially reflecting plane there is a sharp transition from two-atom superradiance to single-atom emission as the atomic positions are varied.

id: quant-ph/0409116
title: All Quantum Adversary Methods are Equivalent
authors: Robert Spalek, Mario Szegedy
comments: 18 pages, ICALP 2005, LNCS 3580, v2: polished and fixed one proof, v3: generalized the adversary bound to non-Boolean functions and published in ToC
journal: Theory of Computing, 2(1):1-18, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409116
abstract: The quantum adversary method is one of the most versatile lower-bound methods for quantum algorithms. We show that all known variants of this method are equivalent: spectral adversary (Barnum, Saks, and Szegedy, 2003), weighted adversary (Ambainis, 2003), strong weighted adversary (Zhang, 2005), and the Kolmogorov complexity adversary (Laplante and Magniez, 2004). We also pa few new equivalent formulations of the method. This shows that there is essentially _one_ quantum adversary method. From our approach, all known limitations of these versions of the quantum adversary method easily follow.

id: quant-ph/0409117
title: The Schrodinger picture and the zero-point radiation
authors: A.J. Faria, H.M. Franca, C.P. Malta, R.C. Sponchiado
comments: 7 pages. To be published in "Quanta, Relativity and Electromagnetism: The Search for Unity in Physics", Proceedings of a Symposium in Honor of Jean-Pierre Vigier (Paris, September, 2003). Kluwer Academic Publishers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409117
abstract: Dalibard, Dupont-Roc and Cohen-Tannoudji (J. Physique 43 (1982) 1617; 45 (1984) 637) used the Heisenberg picture to show that the atomic transitions, and the stability of the ground state, can only be explained by introducing radiation reaction and vacuum fluctuation forces. Here we consider the simple case of nonrelativistic charged harmonic oscillator, in one dimension, to investigate how to take into account the radiation reaction and vacuum fluctuation forces within the Schrodinger picture. We consider classical vacuum fields and large mass oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0409118
title: The Segal-Bargmann transform for noncompact symmetric spaces of the complex type
authors: Brian C. Hall, Jeffrey J. Mitchell
comments: 28 pages. Minor corrections made. To appear in J. Functional Analysis
journal: J. Functional Analysis 227 (2005), 338-371
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409118
abstract: We consider the generalized Segal-Bargmann transform, defined in terms of the heat operator, for a noncompact symmetric space of the complex type. For radial functions, we show that the Segal-Bargmann transform is a unitary map onto a certain L^2 space of meromorphic functions. For general functions, we give an inversion formula for the Segal-Bargmann transform, involving integration against an "unwrapped" version of the heat kernel for the dual compact symmetric space. Both results involve delicate cancellations of singularities.

id: quant-ph/0409119
title: Tunneling as a classical escape rate induced by the vacuum zero-point radiation
authors: A.J. Faria, H.M. Franca, R.C. Sponchiado
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. To be published in "Quanta, Relativity and Electromagnetism: The Search for Unity in Physics", Proceedings of a Symposium in Honor of Jean-Pierre Vigier (Paris, September, 2003). Kluwer Academic Publishers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409119
abstract: We make a brief review of the Kramers escape rate theory for the probabilistic motion of a particle in a potential well U(x), and under the influence of classical fluctuation forces. The Kramers theory is extended in order to take into account the action of the thermal and zero-point random electromagnetic fields on a charged particle. The result is physically relevant because we get a non null escape rate over the potential barrier at low temperatures (T -> 0). It is found that, even if the mean energy is much smaller than the barrier height, the classical particle can escape from the potential well due to the action of the zero-point fluctuating fields. These stochastic effects can be used to give a classical interpretation to some quantum tunneling phenomena. Relevant experimental data are used to illustrate the theoretical results.

id: quant-ph/0409120
title: Spin wave based quantum storage of electronic spin with a ring array of nuclear spins
authors: Y. D. Wang, Y. Li, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409120
abstract: We propose a solid state based protocol to implement the universal quantum storage for electronic spin qubit. The quantum memory in this scheme is the spin wave excitation in the ring array of nuclei in a quantum dot. We show that the quantum information carried by an arbitrary state of the electronic spin can be coherently mapped onto the spin wave excitations or the magnon states. With an appropriate external control, the stored quantum state in quantum memory can be read out reversibly. We also explore in detail the quantum decoherence mechanism due to the inhomogeneous couplings between the electronic spin and the nuclear spins.

id: quant-ph/0409121
title: Controllability of Scattering States of Quantum Mechanical Systems
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Chun-Wen Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409121
abstract: This paper provides a framework for the control of quantum mechanical systems with scattering states, i.e., systems with continuous spectra. We present the concept and prove a criterion of the approximate strong smooth controllability. Our results make non-trivial extensions from quantum systems with finite dimensional control Lie algebras to those with infinite dimensions. It also opens up many interesting problems for future studies.

id: quant-ph/0409122
title: Quantum Fourier Transform in a Decoherence-Free Subspace
authors: Jian-wu Wu, Chun-wen Li, Re-bing Wu
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409122
abstract: Quantum Fourier transform is of primary importance in many quantum algorithms. In order to eliminate the destructive effects of decoherence induced by couplings between the quantum system and its environment, we propose a robust scheme for quantum Fourier transform over the intrinsic decoherence-free subspaces. The scheme is then applied to the circuit design of quantum Fourier transform over quantum networks under collective decoherence. The encoding efficiency and possible improvements are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409123
title: The time evolution of coherent atomic system and probe light in an EIT medium
authors: Jian Qi Shen, Zhi Chao Ruan
comments: 6 pages, Latex, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409123
abstract: The adiabatic solutions of Maxwell-Bloch equation governing the three-level EIT medium is presented. The time evolution of the density matrix elements of the EIT system and the probe light is thus investigated by using the adiabatic approximation formulation and the slowly varying envelope condition.

id: quant-ph/0409124
title: Optimal control of time-dependent targets
authors: I. Serban, J. Werschnik, E.K.U. Gross
comments: less typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 053810 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409124
abstract: In this work, we investigate how and to which extent a quantum system can be driven along a prescribed path in Hilbert space by a suitably shaped laser pulse. To calculate the optimal, i.e., the variationally best pulse, a properly defined functional is maximized. This leads to a monotonically convergent algorithm which is computationally not more expensive than the standard optimal-control techniques to push a system, without specifying the path, from a given initial to a given final state. The method is successfully applied to drive the time-dependent density along a given trajectory in real space and to control the time-dependent occupation numbers of a two-level system and of a one-dimensional model for the hydrogen atom.

id: quant-ph/0409125
title: Simulatable security for quantum protocols
authors: Dominique Unruh
comments: Added proof of combination lemma; added comparison to the model of Ben-Or, Mayers; minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409125
abstract: The notion of simulatable security (reactive simulatability, universal composability) is a powerful tool for allowing the modular design of cryptographic protocols (composition of protocols) and showing the security of a given protocol embedded in a larger one. Recently, these methods have received much attention in the quantum cryptographic community. We give a short introduction to simulatable security in general and proceed by sketching the many different definitional choices together with their advantages and disadvantages. Based on the reactive simulatability modelling of Backes, Pfitzmann and Waidner we then develop a quantum security model. By following the BPW modelling as closely as possible, we show that composable quantum security definitions for quantum protocols can strongly profit from their classical counterparts, since most of the definitional choices in the modelling are independent of the underlying machine model. In particular, we give a proof for the simple composition theorem in our framework.

id: quant-ph/0409126
title: Einstein's Boxes: Quantum Mechanical Solution
authors: E.Yu.Bunkova, O.A.Khrustalev, O.D. Timofeevskaya
comments: Latex, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409126
abstract: In this paper we present a solution of the Einstein's boxes paradox by modern Quantum Mechanics in which a notion of density matrix is equivalent to a notion of a quantum state of a system. We use a secondary quantization formalism in the attempt to make a description particularly clear. The aim of this paper is to provide pedagogical help to the students of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0409127
title: Noise resistance of adiabatic quantum computation using random matrix theory
authors: Jeremie Roland, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409127
abstract: Besides the traditional circuit-based model of quantum computation, several quantum algorithms based on a continuous-time Hamiltonian evolution have recently been introduced, including for instance continuous-time quantum walk algorithms as well as adiabatic quantum algorithms. Unfortunately, very little is known today on the behavior of these Hamiltonian algorithms in the presence of noise. Here, we perform a fully analytical study of the resistance to noise of these algorithms using perturbation theory combined with a theoretical noise model based on random matrices drawn from the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble, whose elements vary in time and form a stationary random process.

id: quant-ph/0409128
title: On the representation of contextual probabilistic dynamics in the complex Hilbert space: linear and nonlinear evolutions, Schroedinger dynamics
authors: Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409128
abstract: We constructed the representation of contextual probabilistic dynamics in the complex Hilbert space. Thus dynamics of the wave function can be considered as Hilbert space projections of realistic dynamics in a ``prespace''. The basic condition for representing of the prespace-dynamics is the law of statistical conservation of energy -- conservation of probabilities. Construction of the dynamical representation is an important step in the development of contextual statistical viewpoint to quantum processes. But the contextual statistical model is essentially more general than the quantum one. Therefore in general the Hilbert space projection of the ``prespace'' dynamics can be nonlinear and even irreversible (but it is always unitary). There were found conditions of linearity and reversibility of the Hilbert space dynamical projection. We also found conditions for the conventional Schroedinger dynamics (including time-dependent Hamiltonians). We remark that in general even the Schroedinger dynamics is based just on the statistical conservation of energy; for individual systems the law of conservation of energy can be violated (at least in our theoretical model).

id: quant-ph/0409129
title: Comment on "Bell's Theorem without Inequalities and without Alignments"
authors: Luca Marinatto
comments: 1 page, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 128901 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409129
abstract: In this Comment we show that Cabello's proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 230403 (2003)] does not exhibit two of the three "remarkable properties" which the proof is claimed to possess. More precisely it is our purpose to show that property (c) of Cabello's proof, stating that ``local observables can be measured by means of tests on individual qubits" is definitely false since it has been obtained by a wrong use of the basic rules of the quantum formalism, while property (b), stating that ``distant local setups do not need to be aligned since the require perfect correlations are achieved for any local rotation of the setups", is also wrong due to the failure of validity of property (c).

id: quant-ph/0409130
title: Quantum X-waves in Kerr media and the progressive undistorted squeezed vacuum
authors: Claudio Conti
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409130
abstract: A quantum theory of 3D X-shaped optical bullets in Kerr media is presented. The existence of progressive undistorted squeezed vacuum is predicted. Applications to quantum non-demolition experiments, entanglement and interferometers for gravitational waves detection are envisaged.

id: quant-ph/0409131
title: Web-assisted tunneling in the kicked harmonic oscillator
authors: Andr¨¦ R. R. Carvalho, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409131
abstract: We show that heating of harmonically trapped ions by periodic delta kicks is dramatically enhanced at isolated values of the Lamb-Dicke parameter. At these values, quasienergy eigenstates localized on island structures undergo avoided crossings with extended web-states.

id: quant-ph/0409132
title: Two measurement settings can suffice to verify multipartite entanglement
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried Guehne
comments: 4 pages including a figure, LaTeX; to appear in the conference proceedings of QCMC04
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 734, 234 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409132
abstract: We present entanglement witnesses for detecting genuine multi-qubit entanglement. Our constructions are robust against noise and require only two local measurement settings, independent of the number of qubits. Thus they allow to verify entanglement of many qubits in experiments while requiring only a small effort. In contrast, usual methods need an effort which increases exponentially with the number of qubits. The witnesses detect states close to GHZ states and cluster states.

id: quant-ph/0409133
title: Entanglement vs. the quantum-to-classical transition
authors: Shohini Ghose, Paul M. Alsing, Barry C. Sanders, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 014102 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409133
abstract: We analyze the quantum-to-classical transition (QCT) for coupled bipartite quantum systems for which the position of one of the two subsystems is continuously monitored. We obtain the surprising result that the QCT can emerge concomitantly with the presence of highly entangled states in the bipartite system. Furthermore the changing degree of entanglement is associated with the back-action of the measurement on the system and is itself an indicator of the QCT. Our analysis elucidates the role of entanglement in von Neumann's paradigm of quantum measurements comprised of a system and a monitored measurement apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0409134
title: Quantum Communication Through a Spin-Ring with Twisted Boundary Conditions
authors: S. Bose, B.-Q. Jin, V. E. Korepin
comments: four pages two figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022345 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409134
abstract: We investigate quantum communication between the sites of a spin-ring with twisted boundary conditions. Such boundary conditions can be achieved by a flux through the ring. We find that a non-zero twist can improve communication through finite odd numbered rings and enable high fidelity multi-party quantum communication through spin rings (working near perfectly for rings of 5 and 7 spins). We show that in certain cases, the twist results in the complete blockage of quantum information flow to a certain site of the ring. This effect can be exploited to interface and entangle a flux qubit and a spin qubit without embedding the latter in a magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0409135
title: Equivalence of Decoupling Schemes and Orthogonal Arrays
authors: Martin Roetteler, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 26 pages, latex, 1 figure in text
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 52(9): 4171-4181 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409135
abstract: We consider the problem of switching off unwanted interactions in a given multi-partite Hamiltonian. This is known to be an important primitive in quantum information processing and several schemes have been presented in the literature to achieve this task. A method to construct decoupling schemes for quantum systems of pairwise interacting qubits was introduced by M. Stollsteimer and G. Mahler and is based on orthogonal arrays. Another approach based on triples of Hadamard matrices that are closed under pointwise multiplication was proposed by D. Leung. In this paper, we show that both methods lead to the same class of decoupling schemes. Moreover, we establish a characterization of orthogonal arrays by showing that they are equivalent to decoupling schemes which allow a refinement into equidistant time-slots. Furthermore, we show that decoupling schemes for networks of higher-dimensional quantum systems with t-local Hamiltonians can be constructed from classical error-correcting codes.

id: quant-ph/0409136
title: Controlled Unitary Operation between Two Distant Atoms
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052309 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409136
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing a controlled unitary gate between two distant atoms directly communicating through a quantum transmission line. To achieve our goal, only a series of several coherent pulses are applied to the atoms. Our scheme thus requires no ancilla atomic qubit. The simplicity of our scheme may significantly improve the scalability of quantum computers based on trapped neutral atoms or ions.

id: quant-ph/0409137
title: Quasilinear Approach to Summation of the WKB Series
authors: Victor Mandelzweig
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409137
abstract: It is shown that the quasilinearization method (QLM) sums the WKB series. The method approaches solution of the Riccati equation (obtained by casting the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in a nonlinear form) by approximating the nonlinear terms by a sequence of the linear ones, and is not based on the existence of a smallness parameter. Each p-th QLM iterate is expressible in a closed integral form. Its expansion in powers of $\hbar$ reproduces the structure of the WKB series generating an infinite number of the WKB terms. Coefficients of the first $2^p$ terms of the expansion are exact while coefficients of a similar number of the next terms are approximate. The quantization condition in any QLM iteration, including the first, leads to exact energies for many well known physical potentials such as the Coulomb, harmonic oscillator, P\"{o}schl-Teller, Hulthen, Hyleraas, Morse, Eckart etc.

id: quant-ph/0409138
title: Entropy, time irreversibility and Schroedinger equation in a primarily discrete space-time
authors: J.P. Badiali
comments: latex version
journal: J.Phys.A38:2835-2847,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409138
abstract: In this paper we show that the existence of a primarily discrete space-time may be a fruitful assumption from which we may develop a new approach of statistical thermodynamics in pre-relativistic conditions. The discreetness of space-time structure is determined by a condition that mimics the Heisenberg uncertainty relations and the motion in this space-time model is chosen as simple as possible. From these two assumptions we define a path-entropy that measures the number of closed paths associated with a given energy of the system preparation. This entropy has a dynamical character and depends on the time interval on which we count the paths. We show that it exists an like-equilibrium condition for which the path-entropy corresponds exactly to the usual thermodynamic entropy and, more generally, the usual statistical thermodynamics is reobtained. This result derived without using the Gibbs ensemble method shows that the standard thermodynamics is consistent with a motion that is time-irreversible at a microscopic level. From this change of paradigm it becomes easy to derive a $H-theorem$. A comparison with the traditional Boltzmann approach is presented. We also show how our approach can be implemented in order to describe reversible processes. By considering a process defined simultaneously by initial and final conditions a well defined stochastic process is introduced and we are able to derive a Schroedinger equation, an example of time reversible equation.

id: quant-ph/0409139
title: Causality and Localization Operators
authors: F. Buscemi, G. Compagno
comments: 10 pages; submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett. A334 (2005) 357-362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409139
abstract: The evolution of the expectation values of one and two points scalar field operators and of positive localization operators, generated by an istantaneous point source is non local. Non locality is attributed either to zero point vacuum fluctuations, or to non local operations or to the microcausality principle being no satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0409140
title: Separability Criteria from Uncertainty Relations
authors: Otfried Guehne, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, contribution for the proceedings of QCMC 2004 in Glasgow
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 734, 230 (2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409140
abstract: We explain several separability criteria which rely on uncertainty relations. For the derivation of these criteria uncertainty relations in terms of variances or entropies can be used. We investigate the strength of the separability conditions for the case of two qubits and show how they can improve entanglement witnesses.

id: quant-ph/0409141
title: Wave functions in the neighborhood of a toroidal surface; hard vs. soft constraint
authors: M. Encinosa, L. Mott, B. Etemadi
comments: 4 pages, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409141
abstract: The curvature potential arising from confining a particle initially in three-dimensional space onto a curved surface is normally derived in the hard constraint $q \to 0$ limit, with $q$ the degree of freedom normal to the surface. In this work the hard constraint is relaxed, and eigenvalues and wave functions are numerically determined for a particle confined to a thin layer in the neighborhood of a toroidal surface. The hard constraint and finite layer (or soft constraint) quantities are comparable, but both differ markedly from those of the corresponding two dimensional system, indicating that the curvature potential continues to influence the dynamics when the particle is confined to a finite layer. This effect is potentially of consequence to the modelling of curved nanostructures.

id: quant-ph/0409142
title: Practical Implementations of Twirl Operations
authors: M. S. Anwar, L. Xiao, A. J. Short, J. A. Jones, D. Blazina, S. B. Duckett, H. A. Carteret
comments: 6 pages RevTex4 including 2 figures (fig 1 low quality to save space)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032327 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409142
abstract: Twirl operations, which convert impure singlet states into Werner states, play an important role in many schemes for entanglement purification. In this paper we describe strategies for implementing twirl operations, with an emphasis on methods suitable for ensemble quantum information processors such as nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computers. We implement our twirl operation on a general two-spin mixed state using liquid state NMR techniques, demonstrating that we can obtain the singlet Werner state with high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0409143
title: The Cat oRules
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 13 pages; v1, change eq. 4, drop a word in oRule (2), use better representation of continuous change, stylistic changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409143
abstract: The oRules of state reduction are applied to the case of the Schrodinger cat experiment. It is shown that these rules can unambiguously describe the conscious state of the cat, as well as an outside observer at any time during the experiment. Two versions of the experiment are considered. In version I, the conscious cat is made unconscious by a mechanism that is triggered by a radioactive decay. In version II, the sleeping cat is made conscious by an alarm clock that is triggered by a radioactive decay.

id: quant-ph/0409144
title: Properties of the frequency operator do not imply the quantum probability postulate
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Ruediger Schack
comments: 21 pages, no figures, REVTEX. Only change in v.2 is change the title of Sec. IIIC so that it doesn't have a \cite command in it. v.3 incorporates changes that will be published as an erratum in Annals of Physics
journal: C.M. Caves and R. Schack, Ann. Phys. 315, 123--146 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409144
abstract: We review the properties of the frequency operator for an infinite number of systems and disprove claims in the literature that the quantum probability postulate can be derived from these properties.

id: quant-ph/0409145
title: Quantum and Classical Effects in the Two-Frequency Kicked Rotor with Variable Initial Phase
authors: T. G. Mullins, A. J. Hilliard, M. P. Sadgrove, M. D. Hoogerland, A. S. Parkins, R. Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409145
abstract: We present an investigation into effects exhibited by the two-frequency kicked rotor. Experiments were performed and in addition quantum and classical dynamics were simulated and compared with the experimental results. The experiments involved pulsing the optical standing wave with two pulsing periods of differing frequencies and variable initial phase offset. The ratio of pulsing periods was sampled for rational and irrational values for different experimental runs. In this paper we present these results and examine the measured momentum distributions for the cause of any structures that are seen in the energy as the initial phase offset is changed. Irrational ratios exhibit no significant quantum effects, whereas rational ratios show dynamical localisation (DL) for certain values of the initial phase. However, most of the observed structure is found to be due to classical effects, in particular KAM boundaries, and is therefore not of uniquely quantum origin.

id: quant-ph/0409146
title: Strong Analytic Controllability for Hydrogen Control Systems
authors: Chunhua Lan, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Quo-Shin Chi, John W. Clark
comments: 6 pages; corrected typo; added equations in section III for representation states of so(4,2). accepted by CDC 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409146
abstract: The realization and representation of so(4,2) associated with the hydrogen atom Hamiltonian are derived. By choosing operators from the realization of so(4,2) as interacting Hamiltonians, a hydrogen atom control system is constructed, and it is proved that this control system is strongly analytically controllable based on a time-dependent strong analytic controllability theorem.

id: quant-ph/0409147
title: Analytic Controllability of Time-Dependent Quantum Control Systems
authors: Chunhua Lan, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Quo-Shin Chi, John W. Clark
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409147
abstract: The question of controllability is investigated for a quantum control system in which the Hamiltonian operator components carry explicit time dependence which is not under the control of an external agent. We consider the general situation in which the state moves in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space, a drift term is present, and the operators driving the state evolution may be unbounded. However, considerations are restricted by the assumption that there exists an analytic domain, dense in the state space, on which solutions of the controlled Schrodinger equation may be expressed globally in exponential form. The issue of controllability then naturally focuses on the ability to steer the quantum state on a finite-dimensional submanifold of the unit sphere in Hilbert space -- and thus on analytic controllability. A relatively straightforward strategy allows the extension of Lie-algebraic conditions for strong analytic controllability derived earlier for the simpler, time-independent system in which the drift Hamiltonian and the interaction Hamiltonia have no intrinsic time dependence. Enlarging the state space by one dimension corresponding to the time variable, we construct an augmented control system that can be treated as time-independent. Methods developed by Kunita can then be implemented to establish controllability conditions for the one-dimension-reduced system defined by the original time-dependent Schrodinger control problem. The applicability of the resulting theorem is illustrated with selected examples.

id: quant-ph/0409148
title: Coherent inelastic backscattering of intense laser light by cold atoms
authors: V. Shatokhin, C.A. Mueller, A. Buchleitner
comments: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 053839 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409148
abstract: We present a nonperturbative treatment of coherent backscattering of intense laser light from cold atoms, and predict a nonvanishing backscattering signal even at very large intensities, due to the constructive (self-)interference of inelastically scattered photons.

id: quant-ph/0409149
title: Position and Momentum Entanglement of Dipole-Dipole Interacting Atoms in Optical Lattices: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox on a Lattice
authors: T. Opatrny, M. Kolar, G. Kurizki, B. Deb
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures in text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409149
abstract: We study a possible realization of the position- and momentum-correlated atomic pairs that are confined to adjacent sites of two mutually shifted optical lattices and are entangled via laser-induced dipole-dipole interactions. The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) ``paradox'' [Phys. Rev. 47, 777 (1935)] with translational variables is then modified by lattice-diffraction effects. This ``paradox'' can be verified to a high degree of accuracy in this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0409150
title: Quantum-Information Content of Fractional Occupation Probabilities in Nuclei
authors: K. Ch. Chatzisavvas, C. P. Panos
comments: 12 pages, 1 eps figure, to be published in Int. J. Mod. Phys. E, misprints corrected
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. E14 (2005) 653-662
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409150
abstract: Three measures of the information content of a probability distribution are briefly reviewed. They are applied to fractional occupation probabilities in light nuclei, taking into account short-range correlations. The effect of short-range correlations is to increase the information entropy (or disorder) of nuclei, comparing with the independent particle model. It is also indicated that the information entropy can serve as a sensitive index of order and short-range correlations in nuclei. It is concluded that increasing $Z$, the information entropy increases i.e. the disorder of the nucleus increases for all measures of information considered in the present work.

id: quant-ph/0409151
title: Exact solution of Schrodinger equation with deformed Ring-Shaped Potential
authors: Metin Aktas, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14
journal: Journal of Math. Chem. 37, 139(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409151
abstract: Exact solution of the Schrodinger equation with deformed ring shaped potential is obtained in the parabolic and spherical coordinates. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the solution. Eigenfunctions and corresponding energy eigenvalues are calculated analytically. The agreement of our results is good.

id: quant-ph/0409152
title: A product formula and combinatorial field theory
authors: A. Horzela, P. Blasiak, G.H.E. Duchamp, K.A. Penson, A.I. Solomon
comments: Presented at the XI International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (SYMPHYS-11), Prague, Czech Republic, June 21-24, 2004. 17 pages, 36 references, 3 f
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409152
abstract: We treat the problem of normally ordering expressions involving the standard boson operators a, a* where [a,a*]=1. We show that a simple product formula for formal power series - essentially an extension of the Taylor expansion - leads to a double exponential formula which enables a powerful graphical description of the generating functions of the combinatorial sequences associated with such functions - in essence, a combinatorial field theory. We apply these techniques to some examples related to specific physical Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0409153
title: A comparative study of relative entropy of entanglement, concurrence and negativity
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, final version
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Optics 6 (2004) 542-548
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409153
abstract: The problem of ordering of two-qubit states imposed by relative entropy of entanglement (E) in comparison to concurrence (C) and negativity (N) is studied. Analytical examples of states consistently and inconsistently ordered by the entanglement measures are given. In particular, the states for which any of the three measures imposes order opposite to that given by the other two measures are described. Moreover, examples are given of pairs of the states, for which (i) N'=N'' and C'=C'' but E' is different from E'', (ii) N'=N'' and E'=E'' but C' differs from C'', (iii) E'=E'', N'<N'' and C'>C'', or (iv) states having the same E, C, and N but still violating the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality to different degrees.

id: quant-ph/0409154
title: Dynamical creation of entanglement by homodyne-mediated feedback
authors: Jin Wang, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Milburn
comments: 8 pages
journal: Published in Phys. Rev. A 71, 042309, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409154
abstract: For two two-level atoms coupled to a single-mode cavity field that is driven and heavily damped, the steady-state can be entangled by shining an un-modulated driving laser on the system [S.Schneider, G. J. Milburn Phys. Rev A 65, 042107, 2002]. We present a scheme to significantly increase the steady-state entanglement by using homodyne-mediated feedback, in which the driving laser is modulated by the homodyne photocurrent derived from the cavity output. Such feedback can increase the nonlinear response to both the decoherence process of the two-qubit system and the coherent evolution of individual qubits. We present the properties of the entangled states using the SO(3) Q function.

id: quant-ph/0409155
title: Orientations of two coupled molecules
authors: Ying-Yen Liao, Yueh-Nan Chen, Der-San Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Chem. Phys. Lett.(2004)
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 398, 418 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409155
abstract: Orientation states of two coupled polar molecules controlled by laser pulses are studied theoretically. By varying the period of a series of periodically applied laser pulse, transition from regular to chaotic behavior may occur. Schmidt decomposition is used to measure the degree of entanglement. It is found that the entanglement can be enhanced by increasing the strength of laser pulse.

id: quant-ph/0409156
title: Optimizing linear optics quantum gates
authors: J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, essentially identical with version in Phys. Rev. Lett., typesetting altered to increase readability
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409156
abstract: In this paper, the problem of finding optimal success probabilities of static linear optics quantum gates is linked to the theory of convex optimization. It is shown that by exploiting this link, upper bounds for the success probability of networks realizing single-mode gates can be derived, which hold in generality for linear optical networks followed by postselection, i.e., for networks of arbitrary size, any number of auxiliary modes, and arbitrary photon numbers. As a corollary, the previously formulated conjecture is proven that the optimal success probability of a postselected non-linear sign shift without feed-forward is 1/4, a gate playing the central role in the scheme of Knill-Laflamme-Milburn for quantum computation with linear optics. The concept of Lagrange duality is shown to be applicable to provide rigorous proofs for such bounds for elementary gates, although the original problem is a difficult non-convex problem in infinitely many objective variables. The versatility of this approach to identify other optimal linear optical schemes is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0409157
title: Entanglement in Random Subspaces
authors: Patrick Hayden
comments: Conference proceedings submission based on a talk given at QCMC04 about quant-ph/0407049
journal: Proc. of QCMC04. AIP conference procedings vol. 734, pp. 226-229, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409157
abstract: The selection of random subspaces plays a role in quantum information theory analogous to the role of random strings in classical information theory. Recent applications have included protocols achieving the quantum channel capacity and methods for extending superdense coding from bits to qubits. In addition, random subspaces have proved useful for studying the structure of bipartite and multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0409158
title: Chain Teleportation
authors: Chien-er Lee
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409158
abstract: By means of the idea of measurements on the crossed space-time nonlocal observables, we extend the mechanism for the two-way quantum teleportation to the chain teleportation among N spatially separated spin-1/2 systems. Since in the process only the local interactions are used, the microcausality is automatically satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0409159
title: Verification of polarization selection rules and implementation of selective coherent manipulations of hydrogenic transitions in n-GaAs
authors: M. F. Doty, B. T. King, M. S. Sherwin, C. R. Stanley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted to Phys. Rev. B: Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409159
abstract: Electrons bound to shallow donors in GaAs have orbital energy levels analogous to those of the hydrogen atom. The polarization selection rules for optical transitions between the states analogous to the 1s and 2p states of hydrogen in a magnetic field are verified using Terahertz (THz) radiation from the UCSB Free Electron Laser. A polarization-selective coherent manipulation of the quantum states is demonstrated and the relevance to quantum information processing schemes is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409160
title: General limit to non-destructive optical detection of atoms
authors: J.J. Hope, J.D. Close
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409160
abstract: We demonstrate that there is a fundamental limit to the sensitivity of phase-based detection of atoms with light for a given maximum level of allowable spontaneous emission. This is a generalisation of previous results for two-level and three-level atoms. The limit is due to an upper bound on the phase shift that can be imparted on a laser beam for a given excited state population. Specifially, we show that no single-pass optical technique using classical light, based on any number of lasers or coherences between any number of levels, can exceed the limit imposed by the two-level atom. This puts significant restrictions on potential non-destructive optical measurement schemes.

id: quant-ph/0409161
title: Oscillator model for dissipative QED in an inhomogeneous dielectric
authors: A.J. van Wonderen, L.G. Suttorp
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409161
abstract: The Ullersma model for the damped harmonic oscillator is coupled to the quantised electromagnetic field. All material parameters and interaction strengths are allowed to depend on position. The ensuing Hamiltonian is expressed in terms of canonical fields, and diagonalised by performing a normal-mode expansion. The commutation relations of the diagonalising operators are in agreement with the canonical commutation relations. For the proof we replace all sums of normal modes by complex integrals with the help of the residue theorem. The same technique helps us to explicitly calculate the quantum evolution of all canonical and electromagnetic fields. We identify the dielectric constant and the Green function of the wave equation for the electric field. Both functions are meromorphic in the complex frequency plane. The solution of the extended Ullersma model is in keeping with well-known phenomenological rules for setting up quantum electrodynamics in an absorptive and spatially inhomogeneous dielectric. To establish this fundamental justification, we subject the reservoir of independent harmonic oscillators to a continuum limit. The resonant frequencies of the reservoir are smeared out over the real axis. Consequently, the poles of both the dielectric constant and the Green function unite to form a branch cut. Performing an analytic continuation beyond this branch cut, we find that the long-time behaviour of the quantised electric field is completely determined by the sources of the reservoir. Through a Riemann-Lebesgue argument we demonstrate that the field itself tends to zero, whereas its quantum fluctuations stay alive. We argue that the last feature may have important consequences for application of entanglement and related processes in quantum devices.

id: quant-ph/0409162
title: Efficient and spectrally bright source of polarization-entangled photons
authors: Friedrich K?nig, Elliott J. Mason, Franco N. C. Wong, Marius A. Albota
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409162
abstract: We demonstrate an efficient fiber-coupled source of nondegenerate polarization entangled photons at 795 and 1609 nm using bidirectionally pumped parametric down-conversion in bulk periodically poled lithium niobate. The single-mode source has an inferred bandwidth of 50 GHz and a spectral brightness of 300 pairs/s/GHz/mW of pump power that is suitable for narrowband applications such as entanglement transfer from photonic to atomic qubits.

id: quant-ph/0409163
title: Chaos assisted adiabatic passage
authors: Kyungsun Na, L. E. Reichl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409163
abstract: We study the exact dynamics underlying stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) for a particle in a multi-level anharmonic system (the infinite square-well) driven by two sequential laser pulses, each with constant carrier frequency. In phase space regions where the laser pulses create chaos, the particle can be transferred coherently into energy states different from those predicted by traditional STIRAP. It appears that a transition to chaos can provide a new tool to control the outcome of STIRAP.

id: quant-ph/0409164
title: Entangled and disentangled evolution for a single atom in a driven cavity
authors: J. Gea-Banacloche, T. C. Burt, P. R. Rice, L. Orozco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409164
abstract: For an atom in an externally driven cavity, we show that special initial states lead to near-disentangled atom-field evolution, and superpositions of these can lead to near maximally-entangled states. Somewhat counterintutively, we find that (moderate) spontaneous emission in this system actually leads to a transient increase in entanglement beyond the steady-state value. We also show that a particular field correlation function could be used, in an experimental setting, to track the time evolution of this entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0409165
title: Standing waves in the Lorentz-covariant world
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTex 20 pages, presented at the 2004 meeting of the International Association of Relativistic Dynamincs, to be published in the proceedings
journal: Found.Phys. 35 (2005) 1289-1305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409165
abstract: When Einstein formulated his special relativity, he developed his dynamics for point particles. Of course, many valiant efforts have been made to extend his relativity to rigid bodies, but this subject is forgotten in history. This is largely because of the emergence of quantum mechanics with wave-particle duality. Instead of Lorentz-boosting rigid bodies, we now boost waves and have to deal with Lorentz transformations of waves. We now have some understanding of plane waves or running waves in the covariant picture, but we do not yet have a clear picture of standing waves. In this report, we show that there is one set of standing waves which can be Lorentz-transformed while being consistent with all physical principle of quantum mechanics and relativity. It is possible to construct a representation of the Poincar\'e group using harmonic oscillator wave functions satisfying space-time boundary conditions. This set of wave functions is capable of explaining the quantum bound state for both slow and fast hadrons. In particular it can explain the quark model for hadrons at rest, and Feynman's parton model hadrons moving with a speed close to that of light.

id: quant-ph/0409166
title: Effects of staggered magnetic field on entanglement in the anisotropic XY model
authors: Zhe Sun, XiaoGuang Wang, You-Quan Li
comments: four pages and four figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409166
abstract: We investigate effects of staggered magnetic field on thermal entanglement in the anisotropic XY model. The analytic results of entanglement for the two-site cases are obtained. For the general case of even sites, we show that when the anisotropic parameter is zero, the entanglement in the XY model with a staggered magnetic field is the same as that with a uniform magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0409167
title: Initial correlations effects on decoherence at zero temperature
authors: B. Bellomo, G. Compagno, F. Petruccione
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A.: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 10203-10216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409167
abstract: We consider a free charged particle interacting with an electromagnetic bath at zero temperature. The dipole approximation is used to treat the bath wavelengths larger than the width of the particle wave packet. The effect of these wavelengths is described then by a linear Hamiltonian whose form is analogous to phenomenological Hamiltonians previously adopted to describe the free particle-bath interaction. We study how the time dependence of decoherence evolution is related with initial particle-bath correlations. We show that decoherence is related to the time dependent dressing of the particle. Moreover because decoherence induced by the T=0 bath is very rapid, we make some considerations on the conditions under which interference may be experimentally observed.

id: quant-ph/0409168
title: Geometric phase accumulation-based effects in the quantum dynamics of an anisotropically trapped ion
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina
comments: 10 pages. Acta Physica Hungarica B 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409168
abstract: New physical effects in the dynamics of an ion confined in an anisotropic two-dimensional Paul trap are reported. The link between the occurrence of such manifestations and the accumulation of geometric phase stemming from the intrinsic or controlled lack of symmetry in the trap is brought to light. The possibility of observing in laboratory these anisotropy-based phenomena is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409169
title: On supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Mohammed Daoud
comments: Review paper (31 pages) to be published in: Fundamental World of Quantum Chemistry, A Tribute to the Memory of Per-Olov Lowdin, Volume 3, E. Brandas and E.S. Kryachko (Eds.), Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409169
abstract: This paper constitutes a review on N=2 fractional supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics of order k. The presentation is based on the introduction of a generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra W_k. It is shown how a general Hamiltonian can be associated with the algebra W_k. This general Hamiltonian covers various supersymmetrical versions of dynamical systems (Morse system, Poschl-Teller system, fractional supersymmetric oscillator of order k, etc.). The case of ordinary supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics corresponds to k=2. A connection between fractional supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and ordinary supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics is briefly described. A realization of the algebra W_k, of the N=2 supercharges and of the corresponding Hamiltonian is given in terms of deformed-bosons and k-fermions as well as in terms of differential operators.

id: quant-ph/0409170
title: Bounds on the entanglability of thermal states in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Terri M. Yu, Kenneth R. Brown, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: REVTeX4, 15 pages, 4 figures (one large figure: 414 K)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032341 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409170
abstract: The role of mixed state entanglement in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computation is not yet well-understood. In particular, despite the success of quantum information processing with NMR, recent work has shown that quantum states used in most of those experiments were not entangled. This is because these states, derived by unitary transforms from the thermal equilibrium state, were too close to the maximally mixed state. We are thus motivated to determine whether a given NMR state is entanglable - that is, does there exist a unitary transform that entangles the state? The boundary between entanglable and nonentanglable thermal states is a function of the spin system size $N$ and its temperature $T$. We provide new bounds on the location of this boundary using analytical and numerical methods; our tightest bound scales as $N \sim T$, giving a lower bound requiring at least $N \sim 22,000$ proton spins to realize an entanglable thermal state at typical laboratory NMR magnetic fields. These bounds are tighter than known bounds on the entanglability of effective pure states.

id: quant-ph/0409171
title: Non-linear photonic crystals as a source of entangled photons
authors: Michiel J. A. de Dood, William T. M. Irvine, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, 93, 040504 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409171
abstract: Non-linear photonic crystals can be used to provide phase-matching for frequency conversion in optically isotropic materials. The phase-matching mechanism proposed here is a combination of form birefringence and phase velocity dispersion in a periodic structure. Since the phase-matching relies on the geometry of the photonic crystal, it becomes possible to use highly non-linear materials. This is illustrated considering a one-dimensional periodic Al$_{0.4}$Ga$_{0.6}$As / air structure for the generation of 1.5 $\mu$m light. We show that phase-matching conditions used in schemes to create entangled photon pairs can be achieved in photonic crystals.

id: quant-ph/0409172
title: On the Complementarity Principle and the Uncertainty Principle
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 6 pages
journal: Optics Communications vol. 234, page 295 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409172
abstract: We present a scheme in which we investigate the two-slit experiment and we show that the principle of complementarity is more fundamental then the uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0409173
title: Extended Quantum Color Coding
authors: A. Hayashi, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A71, 012326 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409173
abstract: The quantum color coding scheme proposed by Korff and Kempe (quant-ph/0405086) is easily extended so that the color coding quantum system is allowed to be entangled with an extra auxiliary quantum system. It is shown that in the extended scheme we need only $\sim 2\sqrt{N}$ quantum colors to order $N$ objects in large $N$ limit, whereas $\sim N/e$ quantum colors are required in the original non-extended version. The maximum success probability has asymptotics expressed by the Tracy-Widom distribution of the largest eigenvalue of a random GUE matrix.

id: quant-ph/0409174
title: Deterministic Local Conversion of Incomparable States by Collective LOCC
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 15 pages, title changed, published version, some minor changes
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 5, No. 3 (2005), 247-257
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409174
abstract: Incomparability of pure bipartite entangled states under deterministic LOCC is a very strange phenomena. We find two possible ways of getting our desired pure entangled state which is incomparable with the given input state, by collective LOCC with certainty. The first one is by providing some pure entanglement through the lower dimensional maximally-entangled states or using further less amount of entanglement and the next one is by collective operation on two pairs which are individually incomparable. It is quite surprising that we are able to achieve maximally entangled states of any Schmidt rank from a finite number of $2\times 2$ pure entangled states only by deterministic LOCC. We provide general theory for the case of $3\times3$ system of incomparable states by the above processes where incomparability seems to be the most hardest one.

id: quant-ph/0409175
title: Algebraic Representation of Many-Particle Coulomb Green Function and Application in Atomic Calculations
authors: Nguyen Hoang Quoc, Nguyen Ngoc Ty, Le Van Hoang, Nguyen Khac Nhap
comments: 7 Pages, 16 Papers Of Reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409175
abstract: Basing on the relation between the Coulomb Green function and the Green function of harmonic oscillator, the algebraic representation of the many-particle Coulomb Green function in the form of annihilation and creation operators is established. These results allow us to construct purely algebraic method for atomic calculations and thus to reduce rather complicated calculations of matrix elements to algebraic procedures of transforming the products of annihilation and creation operators to a normal form. Effectiveness of the constructed method is demonstrated through the example problem: the ground state of hydrogenic molecule. The calculation algorithm of this algebraic approach is simple and suitable for symbolic calculation programs, such as Mathematica, that widely enlarge the application field of the Coulomb Green function

id: quant-ph/0409176
title: The improvement wave equations of relativistic and non-relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Xiangyao Wu, Wei Han, Gui-Song Wu, Xiao-Bo Zhang, Bingxin Zhang
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409176
abstract: In this work, we follow the idea of the De Broglie's matter waves and the analogous method that Schr\"{o}dinger founded wave equation, but we apply the more essential Hamilton principle instead of the minimum action principle of Jacobi which was used in setting up Schr\"{o}dinger wave equation. Thus, we obtain a novel non-relativistic wave equation which is different from the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, and relativistic wave equation including free and non-free particle. In addition, we get the spin 1/2 particle wave equation in potential field.

id: quant-ph/0409177
title: A q-deformed Aufbau Prinzip
authors: Tidjani Negadi, Maurice Kibler
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A 25 (1992) L157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409177
abstract: A building principle working for both atoms and monoatomic ions is proposed in this Letter. This principle relies on the q-deformed chain SO(4) > G where G = SO(3)_q.

id: quant-ph/0409178
title: Reply to Comment on "Quantum Measurement and Decoherence"
authors: G.W.Ford, R.F.O'Connell
comments: This is a Reply to quant-ph/0306019 "Decoherence without dissipation? " by Dominique Gobert, Jan von Delft, Vinay Ambegaokar The Fig. associated with our Reply appears in the PRA journal paper l
journal: Phys.Rev. A70, 026102 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409178
abstract: While agreeing with our exact expression for the time dependence of the motion of a free particle in an initial superposition state, corresponding to two identical Gaussians separated by a distance $d$, at temperature $T$, Gobert et al., in the preceding Comment [Phys. Rev. A xxx], dispute our conclusions on decoherence time scales. However, the parameters they used to generate their figures are outside the regime of validity of our interpretation of the results and, moreover, are not of physical interest in that they correspond to $T\approx 0$. The point is that in their figures they have chosen the thermal de Broglie wavelength $\lambda_{th}=\hbar \sqrt{mkT}$ to be equal to slit spacing \emph{d}, whereas we have clearly stated [in the paragraph preceding Eq. (21) of our paper] that decoherence occurs and that our expression for the decoherence time applies only in the limit where \emph{d} is large compared not only with the slit width $\sigma $ but also with the thermal de Broglie wavelength, $d\gg \lambda_{th},\sigma $.

id: quant-ph/0409179
title: Superconducting Qubits Coupled to Nanoelectromechanical Resonators: An Architecture for Solid-State Quantum Information Processing
authors: Michael R. Geller, Andrew N. Cleland
comments: 20 pages, 14 separate low-resolution jpeg figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409179
abstract: We describe the design for a scalable, solid-state quantum-information-processing architecture based on the integration of GHz-frequency nanomechanical resonators with Josephson tunnel junctions, which has the potential for demonstrating a variety of single- and multi-qubit operations critical to quantum computation. The computational qubits are eigenstates of large-area, current-biased Josephson junctions, manipulated and measured using strobed external circuitry. Two or more of these phase qubits are capacitively coupled to a high-quality-factor piezoelectric nanoelectromechanical disk resonator, which forms the backbone of our architecture, and which enables coherent coupling of the qubits. The integrated system is analogous to one or more few-level atoms (the Josephson junction qubits) in an electromagnetic cavity (the nanomechanical resonator). However, unlike existing approaches using atoms in electromagnetic cavities, here we can individually tune the level spacing of the ``atoms'' and control their ``electromagnetic'' interaction strength. We show theoretically that quantum states prepared in a Josephson junction can be passed to the nanomechanical resonator and stored there, and then can be passed back to the original junction or transferred to another with high fidelity. The resonator can also be used to produce maximally entangled Bell states between a pair of Josephson junctions. Many such junction-resonator complexes can assembled in a hub-and-spoke layout, resulting in a large-scale quantum circuit. Our proposed architecture combines desirable features of both solid-state and cavity quantum electrodynamics approaches, and could make quantum information processing possible in a scalable, solid-state environment.

id: quant-ph/0409180
title: Large Quantum imaging of nonlocal spatial correlations induced by orbital angular momentum
authors: Adam R. Altman, Kahraman G. K?pr¨¹l¨¹, Eric Corndorf, Prem Kumar, Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409180
abstract: Through scanned coincidence counting, we probe the quantum image produced by parametric down conversion with a pump beam carrying orbital angular momentum. Nonlocal spatial correlations are manifested through splitting of the coincidence spot into two.

id: quant-ph/0409181
title: Multiplicativity properties of entrywise positive maps
authors: Christopher King, Michael Nathanson, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: results extended to some infinite dimensional cases, including the Gaussian bosonic channel
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 404, 367-379 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409181
abstract: Multiplicativity of certain maximal p -> q norms of a tensor product of linear maps on matrix algebras is proved in situations in which the condition of complete positivity (CP) is either augmented by, or replaced by, the requirement that the entries of a matrix representative of the map are non-negative (EP). In particular, for integer t, multiplicativity holds for the maximal 2 -> 2t norm of a product of two maps, whenever one of the pair is EP; for the maximal 1 -> t norm for pairs of CP maps when one of them is also EP; and for the maximal 1 -> 2t norm for the product of an EP and a 2-positive map. Similar results are shown in the infinite-dimensional setting of convolution operators on L^2(R), with the pointwise positivity of an integral kernel replacing entrywise positivity of a matrix. These results apply in particular to Gaussian bosonic channels.

id: quant-ph/0409182
title: Criteria of partial separability of multipartite qubit mixed-states
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 13 pages, no figure, the revision of quant-ph/0403173
journal: Inter. J. Quant. Inform. 3(2005)395
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409182
abstract: In this paper, we discuss the partial separability and its criteria problems of multipartite qubit mixed-states. First we strictly define what is the partial separability of a multipartite qubit system. Next we give a reduction way from N-partite qubit density matrixes to bipartite qubit density matrixes, and prove a necessary condition that a N-partite qubit mixed-state to be partially separable is its reduction to satisfy the PPT condition. PACC numbers: 03.67.Mn; 03.65.Ud; 03.67.Hk

id: quant-ph/0409183
title: Squeezing and entanglement delay using slow light
authors: Amy Peng, Mattias Johnsson, W. P. Bowen, P. K. Lam, H. A. Bachor, Joseph J. Hope
comments: 2 figures; v2: fixed some minor typographical errors in a couple of equations and corrected author spelling in one reference. v3: Added three authors; changed the entaglement definition to conform to a more accepted standard (Duan's entanglement measure); altered the abstract slightly. v4: fixed formatting of figure 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409183
abstract: We examine the interaction of a weak probe with $N$ atoms in a lambda-level configuration under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). In contrast to previous works on EIT, we calculate the output state of the resultant slowly propagating light field while taking into account the effects of ground state dephasing and atomic noise for a more realistic model. In particular, we propose two experiments using slow light with a nonclassical probe field and show that two properties of the probe, entanglement and squeezing, characterizing the quantum state of the probe field, can be well-preserved throughout the passage.

id: quant-ph/0409184
title: Sets of Mutually Unbiased Bases as Arcs in Finite Projective Planes?
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Chaos, Solitons and Fractals 26 (2005) 1267 - 1270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409184
abstract: This note is a short elaboration of the conjecture of Saniga et al (J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. 6 (2004) L19-L20) by regarding a set of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in a d-dimensional Hilbert space, d being a power of a prime, as an analogue of an arc in a (Desarguesian) projective plane of order d. Complete sets of MUBs thus correspond to (d+1)-arcs, i.e., ovals. The existence of two principally distinct kinds of ovals for d even and greater than four, viz. conics and non-conics, implies the existence of two qualitatively different groups of the complete sets of MUBs for the Hilbert spaces of corresponding dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0409185
title: Effective boson-spin model for nuclei ensemble based universal quantum memory
authors: Z. Song, P. Zhang, T. Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, new contents added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 205314 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409185
abstract: We study the collective excitation of a macroscopic ensemble of polarized nuclei fixed in a quantum dot. Under the approximately homogeneous condition that we explicitly present in this paper, this many-particle system behaves as a single mode boson interacting with the spin of a single conduction band electron confined in this quantum dot. Within this effective spin-boson system, the quantum information carried by the electronic spin can be coherently transferred into the collective bosonic mode of excitation in the ensemble of nuclei. In this sense, the collective bosonic excitation can serve as a stable quantum memory to store the quantum information of spin state of electron.

id: quant-ph/0409186
title: Quantum information processing by NMR using a 5-qubit system formed by dipolar coupled spins in an oriented molecule
authors: Ranabir Das, Rangeet Bhattacharyya, Anil Kumar
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, Vol-170 (2), 310 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409186
abstract: Quantum Information processing by NMR with small number of qubits is well established. Scaling to higher number of qubits is hindered by two major requirements (i) mutual coupling among qubits and (ii) qubit addressability. It has been demonstrated that mutual coupling can be increased by using residual dipolar couplings among spins by orienting the spin system in a liquid crystalline matrix. In such a case, the heteronuclear spins are weakly coupled but the homonuclear spins become strongly coupled. In such circumstances, the strongly coupled spins can no longer be treated as qubits. However, it has been demonstrated elsewhere, that the $2^N$ energy levels of a strongly coupled N spin-1/2 system can be treated as an N-qubit system. For this purpose the various transitions have to be identified to well defined energy levels. This paper consists of two parts. In the first part, the energy level diagram of a heteronuclear 5-spin system is obtained by using a newly developed heteronuclear z-cosy (HET-Z-COSY) experiment. In the second part, implementation of logic gates, preparation of pseudopure states, creation of entanglement and entanglement transfer is demonstrated, validating the use of such systems for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0409187
title: Information Theoretical Approach to Control of Quantum Mechanical Systems
authors: Shiro Kawabata
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68 (2003) 064302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409187
abstract: Fundamental limits on the controllability of quantum mechanical systems are discussed in the light of quantum information theory. It is shown that the amount of entropy-reduction that can be extracted from a quantum system by feedback controller is upper bounded by a sum of the decrease of entropy achievable in open-loop control and the mutual information between the quantum system and the controller. This upper bound sets a fundamental limit on the performance of any quantum controllers whose designs are based on the possibilities to attain low entropy states. An application of this approach pertaining to quantum error correction is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409188
title: Wigner Distribution Analysis of a Schrodinger Cat Superposition of Displaced Equilibrium Coherent States
authors: G.W. Ford, R.F. O'Connell
comments: Proc. of Wigner Centennial Conference
journal: Acta Phys.Hung.B 20, 91(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409188
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments, we consider a Schr\"{o}dinger cat superposition of two widely separated coherent states in thermal equilibrium. The time development of our system is obtained using Wigner distribution functions. In contrast to our discussion for a two-Gaussian wave packet [Phys. Lett. A 286 (2001) 87], we find that, in the absence of dissipation, the interference term does not decay rapidly in time, but in common with the other two terms, it oscillates in time and persists for all times

id: quant-ph/0409189
title: Reply to Marinatto's comment on "Bell's theorem without inequalities and without alignments"
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004) 128902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409189
abstract: Marinatto claims that in the proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities and without alignments [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 230403 (2003)], local observables cannot be measured by means of tests on individual qubits. Marinatto's claim is incorrect. To support this, the proof is explicitly rewritten in terms of tests on individual qubits.

id: quant-ph/0409190
title: Bell's theorem without inequalities and without unspeakable information
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure; for Asher Peres' Festschrift, to be published in Found. Phys
journal: Found. Phys. 35 (2005) 1927
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409190
abstract: A proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities is presented in which distant local setups do not need to be aligned, since the required perfect correlations are achieved for any local rotation of the local setups.

id: quant-ph/0409191
title: Proposed experiment for the quantum "Guess my number" protocol
authors: Adan Cabello, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 020301(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409191
abstract: An experimental realization of the entanglement-assisted "Guess my number" protocol for the reduction of communication complexity, introduced by Steane and van Dam, would require producing and detecting three-qubit GHZ states with an efficiency eta > 0.70, which would require single photon detectors of efficiency sigma > 0.89. We propose a modification of the protocol which can be translated into a real experiment using present-day technology. In the proposed experiment, the quantum reduction of the multi-party communication complexity would require an efficiency eta > 0.05, achievable with detectors of sigma > 0.47, for four parties, and eta > 0.17 (sigma > 0.55) for three parties.

id: quant-ph/0409192
title: How much larger quantum correlations are than classical ones
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 (2005) 012113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409192
abstract: Considering as distance between two two-party correlations the minimum number of half local results one party must toggle in order to turn one correlation into the other, we show that the volume of the set of physically obtainable correlations in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bell scenario is (3 pi/8)^2 = 1.388 larger than the volume of the set of correlations obtainable in local deterministic or probabilistic hidden-variable theories, but is only 3 pi^2/32 = 0.925 of the volume allowed by arbitrary causal (i.e., no-signaling) theories.

id: quant-ph/0409193
title: Experimental Implementation of a Concatenated Quantum Error-Correcting Code
authors: Nicolas Boulant, Lorenza Viola, Evan M. Fortunato, David G. Cory
comments: 4 pages, 2 encapsulated eps figures. REVTeX4 style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409193
abstract: Concatenated coding provides a general strategy to achieve the desired level of noise protection in quantum information storage and transmission. We report the implementation of a concatenated quantum error-correcting code able to correct against phase errors with a strong correlated component. The experiment was performed using liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance techniques on a four spin subsystem of labeled crotonic acid. Our results show that concatenation between active and passive quantum error-correcting codes offers a practical tool to handle realistic noise contributed by both independent and correlated errors.

id: quant-ph/0409194
title: Teleportation of Atomic States via Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 12 pages and 2 figures. Accepted for publication in Opt. Comm., september (2004) issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409194
abstract: In this article we discuss a scheme of teleportation of atomic states. The experimental realization proposed makes use of cavity Quatum Electrodynamics involving the interaction of Rydberg atoms with a micromaser cavity prepared in a coherent state. We start presenting a scheme to prepare atomic Bell states via the interaction of atoms with a cavity. In our scheme the cavity and some atoms play the role of auxiliary systems used to achieve the teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0409195
title: Teleportation of Atomic States for Atoms in a Lambda Configuration
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 8 pages and 2 figures. submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409195
abstract: In this article we discuss a scheme of teleportation of atomic states making use of three-level lambda atoms. The experimental realization proposed makes use of cavity QED involving the interaction of Rydberg atoms with a micromaser cavity prepared in a coherent state. We start presenting a scheme to prepare atomic EPR states involving two-level atoms via the interaction of these atoms with a cavity. In our scheme the cavity and some atoms play the role of auxiliary systems used to achieve the teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0409196
title: Realization of GHZ States and the GHZ Test via Cavity QED
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 16 pages and 3 figures. submitted to J. Mod. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409196
abstract: In this article we discuss the realization of atomic GHZ states involving three-level atoms and we show explicitly how to use this state to perform the GHZ test in which it is possible to decide between local realism theories and quantum mechanics. The experimental realizations proposed makes use of the interaction of Rydberg atoms with a cavity prepared in a coherent state.

id: quant-ph/0409197
title: Classical sources of non-classical physics: the case of linear superposition
authors: Ghenadie N. Mardari, James A. Greenwood
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures, PowerPoint slideshow available on YouTube: this https URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409197
abstract: Classical linear wave superposition produces the appearance of interference. This observation can be interpreted in two equivalent ways: one can assume that interference is an illusion because input components remain unperturbed, or that interference is real and input components undergo energy redistribution. Both interpretations entail the same observable consequences at the macroscopic level, but the first approach is considerably more popular. This preference was established before the emergence of quantum mechanics. Unfortunately, it requires a non-classical underlying mechanism and fails to explain well-known microscopic observations. Classical physics appears to collapse at the quantum level. On the other hand, quantum superposition can be described as a classical process if the second alternative is adopted. The gap between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics is an interpretive problem.

id: quant-ph/0409198
title: Nonlinear quantum optical computing via measurement
authors: G. D. Hutchinson, G. J. Milburn
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 20 May 2004 Vol. 51, No. 8, 1211-1222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409198
abstract: We show how the measurement induced model of quantum computation proposed by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev. Letts. 86, 5188 (2001)] can be adapted to a nonlinear optical interaction. This optical implementation requires a Kerr nonlinearity, a single photon source, a single photon detector and fast feed forward. Although nondeterministic optical quantum information proposals such as that suggested by KLM [Nature 409, 46 (2001)] do not require a Kerr nonlinearity they do require complex reconfigurable optical networks. The proposal in this paper has the benefit of a single static optical layout with fixed device parameters, where the algorithm is defined by the final measurement procedure.

id: quant-ph/0409199
title: Bound and resonance states of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation in simple model systems
authors: D. Witthaut, S. Mossmann, H. J. Korsch
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys.A 38 (2005) 1777
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409199
abstract: The stationary nonlinear Schroedinger equation, or Gross-Pitaevskii equation, is studied for the cases of a single delta potential and a delta-shell potential. These model systems allow analytical solutions, and thus provide useful insight into the features of stationary bound, scattering and resonance states of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation. For the single delta potential, the influence of the potential strength and the nonlinearity is studied as well as the transition from bound to scattering states. Furthermore, the properties of resonance states for a repulsive delta-shell potential are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0409200
title: Canonical entanglement for two indistinguishable particle
authors: Xiao-Guang Wang, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Four pages and no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, L67-L72 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409200
abstract: We determine the degree of entanglement for two indistinguishable particles based on the two-qubit tensor product structure, which is a framework for emphasizing entanglement founded on observational quantities. Our theory connects canonical entanglement and entanglement based on occupation number for two fermions and for two bosons and shows that the degree of entanglement, based on linear entropy, is closely related to the correlation measure for both the bosonic and fermionic cases.

id: quant-ph/0409201
title: Quantum Anonymous Transmissions
authors: Matthias Christandl, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 18 pages, LaTeX. Substantially updated version. To appear at ASIACRYPT '05
journal: Proc. of 11th ASIACRYPT, 2005, LNCS 3788, pages 217-235.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409201
abstract: We consider the problem of hiding sender and receiver of classical and quantum bits (qubits), even if all physical transmissions can be monitored. We present a quantum protocol for sending and receiving classical bits anonymously, which is completely traceless: it successfully prevents later reconstruction of the sender. We show that this is not possible classically. It appears that entangled quantum states are uniquely suited for traceless anonymous transmissions. We then extend this protocol to send and receive qubits anonymously. In the process we introduce a new primitive called anonymous entanglement, which may be useful in other contexts as well.

id: quant-ph/0409202
title: Magnetometry with entangled atomic samples
authors: Vivi Petersen, Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 71, 012312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409202
abstract: We present a theory for the estimation of a scalar or a vector magnetic field by its influence on an ensemble of trapped spin polarized atoms. The atoms interact off-resonantly with a continuous laser field, and the measurement of the polarization rotation of the probe light, induced by the dispersive atom-light coupling, leads to spin-squeezing of the atomic sample which enables an estimate of the magnetic field which is more precise than that expected from standard counting statistics. For polarized light and polarized atoms, a description of the non-classical components of the collective spin angular momentum for the atoms and the collective Stokes vectors of the light-field in terms of effective gaussian position and momentum variables is practically exact. The gaussian formalism describes the dynamics of the system very effectively and accounts explicitly for the back-action on the atoms due to measurement and for the estimate of the magnetic field. Multi-component magnetic fields are estimated by the measurement of suitably chosen atomic observables and precision and efficiency is gained by dividing the atomic gas in two or more samples which are entangled by the dispersive atom-light interaction.

id: quant-ph/0409203
title: Are atoms waves or particles?
authors: Trevor W. Marshall
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409203
abstract: It is shown that the Kapitza-Dirac effect with atoms, which has been considered to be evidence of their wavelike character, can be interpreted as a scattering of pointlike objects by the periodic laser field.

id: quant-ph/0409204
title: Basis States for Relativistic, Dynamically-Entangled Particles
authors: N.L. Harshman
comments: 19 pages, three tables, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409204
abstract: In several recent papers on entanglement in relativistic quantum systems and relativistic Bell's inequalities, relativistic Bell-type two-particle states have been constructed in analogy to non-relativistic states. These constructions do not have the form suggested by relativistic invariance of the dynamics. Two relativistic formulations of Bell-type states are shown for massive particles, one using the standard Wigner spin basis and one using the helicity basis. The construction hinges on the use of Clebsch-Gordan coefficients of the Poincar\'e group to reduce the direct product of two unitary irreducible representations (UIRs) into a direct sum of UIRs.

id: quant-ph/0409205
title: Note on Non-relativistic proof of the spin-statistics connection in the Galilean frame
authors: E. C. G. Sudarshan, Anil Shaji
comments: Reply to Puccini and Vucetich, arXiv:quant-ph/0407208
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409205
abstract: We reply to the critique by Pucchini and Vucetich of our construction of a non-relativistic proof of the spin-statistics connection using SU(2) invariance and a Weiss-Schwinger action principle.

id: quant-ph/0409206
title: Quantum mechanical description of Stern-Gerlach experiments
authors: G. Potel, F. Barranco, S. Cruz-Barrios, J. G¨®mez-Camacho
comments: 12 pages, 7 eps figures included, revtex, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409206
abstract: The motion of neutral particles with magnetic moments in an inhomogeneous magnetic field is described in a quantum mechanical framework. The validity of the semi-classical approximations which are generally used to describe these phenomena is discussed. Approximate expressions for the evolution operator are derived and compared to the exact calculations. Focusing and spin-flip phenomena are predicted. The reliability of Stern-Gerlach experiments to measure spin projections is assessed in this framework.

id: quant-ph/0409207
title: Classical feedback for quantum channels
authors: Andrew Skeen
comments: replaced incorrect definition of directed information and resulting minor changes to proofs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409207
abstract: We investigate whether the use of a noiseless, classical feedback channel will increase the capacity of a quantum discrete memoryless channel to transmit classical information. This problem has been previously analyzed by Bowen and Nagarajan for the case of protocols restricted to product input states. They showed that feedback did not increase the information capacity. In this paper we introduce a quantum analogue of classical causality and prove a capacity theorem (in regularized form) for the transmission of classical information.

id: quant-ph/0409208
title: Single-particle entanglement
authors: M. Ali Can, Alexander Klyachko, Alexander Shumovsky
comments: 7 pages, no figures, submitted to Journal of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409208
abstract: Using the approach to quantum entanglement based on the quantum fluctuations of observables, we show the existence of perfect entangled states of a single "spin-1" particle. We give physical examples related to the photons, condensed matter physics, and particle physics.

id: quant-ph/0409209
title: On the use of the group SO(4,2) in atomic and molecular physics
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: 31 pages
journal: Molecular Physics 102 (2004) 1221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409209
abstract: In this paper the dynamical noninvariance group SO(4,2) for a hydrogen-like atom is derived through two different approaches. The first one is by an established traditional ascent process starting from the symmetry group SO(3). This approach is presented in a mathematically oriented original way with a special emphasis on maximally superintegrable systems, N-dimensional extension and little groups. The second approach is by a new symmetry descent process starting from the noninvariance dynamical group Sp(8,R) for a four-dimensional harmonic oscillator. It is based on the little known concept of a Lie algebra under constraints and corresponds in some sense to a symmetry breaking mechanism. This paper ends with a brief discussion of the interest of SO(4,2) for a new group-theoretical approach to the periodic table of chemical elements. In this connection, a general ongoing programme based on the use of a complete set of commuting operators is briefly described. It is believed that the present paper could be useful not only to the atomic and molecular community but also to people working in theoretical and mathematical physics.

id: quant-ph/0409210
title: Experimental study of the momentum correlation of a pseudo-thermal field in the photon counting regime
authors: Giuliano Scarcelli, Alejandra Valencia, Yanhua Shih
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 051802(R) (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409210
abstract: Thermal (or pseudo-thermal) radiation has been recently proposed for imaging and interference types of experiments to simulate entangled states. We report an experimental study on the momentum correlation properties of a pseudo-thermal field in the photon counting regime. The characterization and understanding of such a light source in the context of two photon physics, especially its similarities and differences compared to entangled two-photon states, is useful in gaining knowledge of entanglement and may help us to assess the real potential of applications of chaotic light in this context.

id: quant-ph/0409211
title: Time-resolved homodyne characterization of individual quadrature-entangled pulses
authors: Jerome Wenger, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 32, 391-396 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409211
abstract: We describe a simple and efficient setup to generate and characterize femtosecond quadrature-entangled pulses. Quantum correlations equivalent to about 2.5 dB squeezing are efficiently and easily reached using the non-degenerate parametric amplification of femtosecond pulses through a single-pass in a thin (0.1 mm) potassium niobate crystal. The entangled pulses are then individually sampled to characterize the non-separability and the entropy of formation of the states. The complete experiment is analysed in the time-domain, from the pulsed source of quadrature entanglement to the time-resolved homodyne detection. This particularity allows for applications in quantum communication protocols using continuous-variable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0409212
title: An experiential formula for the energy eigenvalues of a particle in a one-dimension finite-deep square well potential
authors: Zhi-Ming Zhang, Chun-Hua Yuan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409212
abstract: We propose an experiential formula for the calculation of the energy eigenvalues of a particle moving in a one-dimension finite-deep square well potential after some physical considerations. This formula shows a simple relation between the energy eigenvalues and the potential papameters, and can be used to estimate the energy eigenvalues in a very simple way.

id: quant-ph/0409213
title: Deterministic event-based simulation of quantum interference
authors: K. De Raedt, H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: Additional material: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409213
abstract: We propose and analyse simple deterministic algorithms that can be used to construct machines that have primitive learning capabilities. We demonstrate that locally connected networks of these machines can be used to perform blind classification on an event-by-event basis, without storing the information of the individual events. We also demonstrate that properly designed networks of these machines exhibit behavior that is usually only attributed to quantum systems. We present networks that simulate quantum interference on an event-by-event basis. In particular we show that by using simple geometry and the learning capabilities of the machines it becomes possible to simulate single-photon interference in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The interference pattern generated by the network of deterministic learning machines is in perfect agreement with the quantum theoretical result for the single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer. To illustrate that networks of these machines are indeed capable of simulating quantum interference we simulate, event-by-event, a setup involving two chained Mach-Zehnder interferometers. We show that also in this case the simulation results agree with quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0409214
title: Quantum phase-space analysis of the pendular cavity
authors: M.K. Olsen, A.B. Melo, K. Dechoum, A.Z. Khoury
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409214
abstract: We perform a quantum mechanical analysis of the pendular cavity, using the positive-P representation, showing that the quantum state of the moving mirror, a macroscopic object, has noticeable effects on the dynamics. This system has previously been proposed as a candidate for the quantum-limited measurement of small displacements of the mirror due to radiation pressure, for the production of states with entanglement between the mirror and the field, and even for superposition states of the mirror. However, when we treat the oscillating mirror quantum mechanically, we find that it always oscillates, has no stationary steady-state, and exhibits uncertainties in position and momentum which are typically larger than the mean values. This means that previous linearised fluctuation analyses which have been used to predict these highly quantum states are of limited use. We find that the achievable accuracy in measurement is far worse than the standard quantum limit due to thermal noise, which, for typical experimental parameters, is overwhelming even at 2 mK.

id: quant-ph/0409215
title: Ghost imaging schemes: fast and broadband
authors: M. Bache, E. Brambilla, A. Gatti, L.A. Lugiato
comments: 15 pages, published in Optics Express. Figures in online version miss some information in axes labels, therefore we have updated the arXiv version to the published version and with the correct axes labels. The movies are available at the Optics Express home page
journal: Opt. Express 12, 6067-6081 (2004), http://www.opticsexpress.org/abstract.cfm?URI=OPEX-12-24-6067
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409215
abstract: In ghost imaging schemes information about an object is extracted by measuring the correlation between a beam that passed the object and a reference beam. We present a spatial averaging technique that substantially improves the imaging bandwidth of such schemes, which implies that information about high-frequency Fourier components can be observed in the reconstructed diffraction pattern. In the many-photon regime the averaging can be done in parallel and we show that this leads to a much faster convergence of the correlations. We also consider the reconstruction of the object image, and discuss the differences between a pixel-like detector and a bucket detector in the object arm. Finally, it is shown how to non-locally make spatial filtering of a reconstructed image. The results are presented using entangled beams created by parametric down-conversion, but they are general and can be extended also to the important case of using classically correlated thermal-like beams.

id: quant-ph/0409216
title: Stairway Quantum Computer
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 17 pages, 23 eps files (color figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409216
abstract: In the paper is considered stairway-like design of quantum computer, i.e., array of double quantum dots or wells. The model is quite general to include wide variety of physical systems from coupled quantum dots in experiments with solid state qubits, to very complex one, like DNA molecule. At the same time it is concrete enough, to describe main physical principles for implementation of universal set of quantum gates, initialization, measurement, decoherence, etc.

id: quant-ph/0409217
title: POVM optimization of classical correlations
authors: S. Hamieh, R. Kobes, H. Zaraket
comments: 9 pages, 1 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409217
abstract: We study the problem of optimization over positive valued-operator measure to extract classical correlation in a bipartite quantum system. The proposed method is applied to binary states only. Moreover, to illustrate this method, an explicit example is studied in details.

id: quant-ph/0409218
title: Nonclassicality of a photon-subtracted Gaussian field
authors: M. S. Kim, E. Park, P. L. Knight, H. Jeong
comments: Final version uploaded (accepted for Phys.Rev.A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 043805 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409218
abstract: Recently, a non-Gaussian field, which may be a useful basis for entanglement distillation and efficient quantum teleportation, has been experimentally produced by subtracting a photon from a squeezed Gaussian field. We investigate the nonclassicality of such the field using negativity in the Wigner function and the existence of positive well-defined $P$ function. We obtain the condition to see negativity in the Wigner function for the case including the mixed Gaussian incoming field, the threshold photodetection and the inefficient homodyne measurement. We show how similar the photon-subtracted state is to a superposition of coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0409219
title: Surface Acoustic Wave Single-Electron Interferometry
authors: Roberta Rodriquez, Daniel K. L. Oi, Crispin H. W. Barnes, Masaya Kataoka, Toshio Ohshima, Artur K. Ekert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409219
abstract: We propose an experiment to observe interference of a single electron as it is transported along two parallel quasi-one-dimensional channels trapped in a single minimum of a travelling periodic electric field. The experimental device is a modification of the surface acoustic wave (SAW) based quantum processor. Interference is achieved by creating a superposition of spatial wavefunctions between the two channels and inducing a relative phase shift via either a transverse electric field or a magnetic field. The interference can be used to estimate the decoherence time of an electron in this type of solid-state device.

id: quant-ph/0409220
title: Decoherence of Anyon Qubit
authors: A. Dementsov
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409220
abstract: One mechanism of decoherence of anyon qubit due to interaction with edge states is considered. The calculations are made at low temperature in Markovian and "short-time" approximation. Two approximations are compared.

id: quant-ph/0409221
title: Quantum Gloves
authors: D. Collins, L. Diosi, N. Gisin, S. Massar, S. Popescu
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409221
abstract: The slogan "information is physical" has been so successful that it led to some excess. Classical and quantum information can be thought of independently of any physical implementation. Pure information tasks can be realized using such abstract c- and qu-bits, but physical tasks require appropriate physical realizations of c- or qu-bits. As illustration we consider the problem of communicating chirality. We discuss in detail the physical resources this necessitates, and introduce the natural concept of "quantum gloves", i.e. rotationally invariant quantum states that encode as much as possible the concept of chirality and nothing more.

id: cond-mat/0409010
title: Hybridized solid-state qubit in the charge-flux regime
authors: J. Q. You, J. S. Tsai, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 014510 (2006).
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409010
abstract: Most superconducting qubits operate in a regime dominated by either the electrical charge or the magnetic flux. Here we study an intermediate case: a hybridized charge-flux qubit with a third Josephson junction (JJ) added into the SQUID loop of the Cooper-pair box. This additional JJ allows the optimal design of a low-decoherence qubit. Both charge and flux $1/f$ noises are considered. Moreover, we show that an efficient quantum measurement of either the current or the charge can be achieved by using different area sizes for the third JJ.

id: cond-mat/0409096
title: Double Occupancy Errors in Quantum Computing Operations: Corrections to Adiabaticity
authors: Ryan Requist, John Schliemann, Alexander G. Abanov, Daniel Loss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 71, 115315 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409096
abstract: We study the corrections to adiabatic dynamics of two coupled quantum dot spin-qubits, each dot singly occupied with an electron, in the context of a quantum computing operation. Tunneling causes double occupancy at the conclusion of an operation and constitutes a processing error. We model the gate operation with an effective two-level system, where non-adiabatic transitions correspond to double occupancy. The model is integrable and possesses three independent parameters. We confirm the accuracy of Dykhne's formula, a nonperturbative estimate of transitions, and discuss physically intuitive conditions for its validity. Our semiclassical results are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations of the exact time evolution. A similar approach applies to two-level systems in different contexts.

id: cond-mat/0409294
title: Controlling Spin Qubits in Quantum Dots
authors: Hans-Andreas Engel, L.P. Kouwenhoven, Daniel Loss, C.M. Marcus
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 3, 115 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409294
abstract: We review progress on the spintronics proposal for quantum computing where the quantum bits (qubits) are implemented with electron spins. We calculate the exchange interaction of coupled quantum dots and present experiments, where the exchange coupling is measured via transport. Then, experiments on single spins on dots are described, where long spin relaxation times, on the order of a millisecond, are observed. We consider spin-orbit interaction as sources of spin decoherence and find theoretically that also long decoherence times are expected. Further, we describe the concept of spin filtering using quantum dots and show data of successful experiments. We also show an implementation of a read out scheme for spin qubits and define how qubits can be measured with high precision. Then, we propose new experiments, where the spin decoherence time and the Rabi oscillations of single electrons can be measured via charge transport through quantum dots. Finally, all these achievements have promising applications both in conventional and quantum information processing.

id: cond-mat/0409349
title: Interference of Bose-Einstein condensates and entangled single-atom state in a spin-dependent optical lattice
authors: Linghua Wen, Min Liu, Hongwei Xiong, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 7 pages,5 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D 36, 89(2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409349
abstract: We present a theoretical model to investigate the interference of an array of Bose-Einstein condensates loaded in a one-dimensional spin-dependent optical lattice, which is based on an assumption that for the atoms in the entangled single-atom state between the internal and the external degrees of freedom each atom interferes only with itself. Our theoretical results agree well with the interference patterns observed in a recent experiment by Mandel et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 010407 (2003)]. In addition, an experimental suggestion of nonuniform phase distribution is proposed to test further our theoretical model and prediction. The present work shows that the entanglement of a single atom is sufficient for the interference of the condensates confined in a spin-dependent optical lattice and this interference is irrelevant with the phases of individual condensates, i.e., this interference arises only between each condensate and itself and there is no interference effect between two arbitrary different condensates.

id: cond-mat/0409400
title: A way to solve BCS-type pairing model
authors: An Min Wang, Feng Xu
comments: 5 pages, no figure, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409400
abstract: We propose a way to solve BCS-type pairing model by to exactly solve its spin-analogy in the subspace. The advantages of our method are to avoid to directly deal with the approximate procedure and to transfer an exponentially complicated problem to a polynomial problem. Moreover, it builds the theoretical foundation of quantum simulation of pairing model and can be used to check the precision of quantum simulation. It is also helpful to understand the many-body quantum theory.

id: cond-mat/0409475
title: Nonadiabatic dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice
authors: Lorenzo Isella, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 (2005) 011601(R)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409475
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate which is split in a harmonic trap by turning up a periodic optical lattice potential. We evaluate the dynamical evolution of the phase coherence along the lattice and the number fluctuations in individual lattice sites within the stochastic truncated Wigner approximation when several atoms occupy each site. We show that the saturation of the number squeezing at high lattice strengths, which was observed in recent experiments by Orzel et. al., can be explained by the nonadiabaticity of the splitting.

id: cond-mat/0409514
title: One-dimensional continuous-time quantum walks
authors: D. ben-Avraham, E. Bollt, C. Tamon
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 3, 295-308 (2004)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409514
abstract: We survey the equations of continuous-time quantum walks on simple one-dimensional lattices, which include the finite and infinite lines and the finite cycle, and compare them with the classical continuous-time Markov chains. The focus of our expository article is on analyzing these processes using the Laplace transform on the stochastic recurrences. The resulting time evolution equations, classical versus quantum, are strikingly similar in form, although dissimilar in behavior. We also provide comparisons with analyses performed using spectral methods.

id: cond-mat/0409611
title: Entanglement entropy in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: J. I. Latorre, R. Orus, E. Rico, J. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 064101 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409611
abstract: We analyze the entanglement entropy in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, which describes mutually interacting spins half embedded in a magnetic field. This entropy displays a singularity at the critical point that we study as a function of the interaction anisotropy, the magnetic field, and the system size. Results emerging from our analysis are surprisingly similar to those found for the one-dimensional XY chain.

id: cond-mat/0409612
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation in Geometrically Deformed Tubes
authors: Pavel Exner, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: RevTex, 4pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A38 (2005), L463-470
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409612
abstract: We show that Bose-Einstein condensate can be created in quasi-one-dimensional systems in a purely geometrical way, namely by bending or other suitable deformation of a tube.

id: cond-mat/0409745
title: Polarization entanglement visibility of photon pairs emitted by a quantum dot embedded in a microcavity
authors: J.I. Perea, C. Tejedor
comments: 13 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409745
abstract: We study the photon emission from a quantum dot embedded in a microcavity. Incoherent pumping of its excitons and biexciton provokes the emission of leaky and cavity modes. By solving a master equation we obtain the correlation functions required to compute the spectrum and the relative efficiency among the emission of pairs and single photons. A quantum regime appears for low pumping and large rate of emission. By means of a post-selection process, a two beams experiment with different linear polarizations could be performed producing a large polarization entanglement visibility precisely in the quantum regime.

id: cond-mat/0409771
title: Coherent and Collective Quantum Optical Effects in Mesoscopic Systems
authors: Tobias Brandes
comments: Review article submitted to Physics Reports, 175 pages, 58 figures. Revised version (typos, additional appendix, figures and some parts in the discussion)
journal: Phys. Rep. 408/5-6, pp. 315-474 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0409771
abstract: A review of coherent and collective quantum optical effects like superradiance and coherent population trapping in mesoscopic systems is presented. Various new physical realizations of these phenomena are discussed, with a focus on their role for electronic transport and quantum dissipation in coupled nano-scale systems like quantum dots. A number of theoretical tools such as Master equations, polaron transformations, correlation functions, or level statistics are used to describe recent work on dissipative charge qubits (double quantum dots), the Dicke effect, phonon cavities, single oscillators, dark states and adiabatic control in quantum transport, and large spin-boson models. The review attempts to establish connections between concepts from Mesoscopics (quantum transport, coherent scattering, quantum chaos), Quantum Optics (such as superradiance, dark states, boson cavities), and (in its last part) Quantum Information Theory.

id: cs/0409051
title: Quantum Complexity Classes
authors: Tereza Tusarova
comments: Master thesis from 2003. Comparing to the original version, here I corrected some typos and formal errors. I am now writing a short extract from this thesis
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0409051
abstract: In our thesis, we try to shed more light onto the complexity of quantum complexity classes by refining the related part of the hierarchy. First, we review the basic concepts of quantum computing in general. Then, inspired by BQP, we define new complexity classes. They are placed between BPP and PSPACE. We show that they incorporate the current important quantum algorithms. Furthermore, the importance of the unitarity constraint given by quantum mechanics is revealed. Without this requirement, we naturally arrive at the class AWPP, which was up to now thought to be just an artificially defined class. We hope that some of our newly defined classes could find their use in proving results about BQP.

id: gr-qc/0409020
title: Causal Loop Quantum Gravity and Cosmological Solutions
authors: Ali Shojai, Fatimah Shojai
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett. 71 (2005) 886
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409020
abstract: We shall present here the causal interpretation of canonical quantum gravity in terms of new variables. Then we shall apply it to the minisuperspace of cosmology. A vacuum solution of quantum cosmology is obtained and the Bohmian trajectory is investigated. At the end a coherent state with matter is considered in the cosmological model.

id: gr-qc/0409035
title: Constraint Algebra in Causal Loop Quantum Gravity
authors: Fatimah Shojai, Ali Shojai
comments: 3 pages, to appear in Proceedings of the 11th Regional Conference on Mathematical Physics (2004), Tehran, Iran
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409035
abstract: de-Broglie--Bohm causal interpretation of canonical quantum gravity in terms of Ashtekar new variables is built. The Poisson brackets of (deBroglie--Bohm) constraints are derived and it is shown that the Poisson bracket of Hamiltonian with itself would change with respect to its classical counterpart.

id: gr-qc/0409069
title: A Minimal Model for Quantum Gravity
authors: Paola A. Zizzi
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, Contributed paper at DICE 2004, 1-4 September 2004, Piombino, Italy minor changes, misprints corrected
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 645-653
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409069
abstract: We argue that the model of a quantum computer with N qubits on a quantum space background, which is a fuzzy sphere with n=2^N elementary cells, can be viewed as the minimal model for Quantum Gravity. In fact, it is discrete, has no free parameters, is Lorentz invariant, naturally realizes the Holographic Principle, and defines a subset of punctures of spin networks' edges of Loop Quantum Gravity labelled by spins j=2^(N-1)-1/2. In this model, the discrete area spectrum of the cells, which is not equally spaced, is given in units of the minimal area of Loop Quantum Gravity (for j=1/2), and provides a discrete emission spectrum for quantum black holes. When the black hole emits one string of N bits encoded in one of the n cells, its horizon area decreases of an amount equal to the area of one cell.

id: gr-qc/0409090
title: Some Thoughts on Energy Conditions and Wormholes
authors: Thomas A. Roman
comments: 24 pages; to appear in the Proceedings of the Tenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting on General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409090
abstract: This essay reviews some of the recent progress in the area of energy conditions and wormholes. Most of the discussion centers on the subject of ``quantum inequality'' restrictions on negative energy. These are bounds on the magnitude and duration of negative energy which put rather severe constraints on its possible macroscopic effects. Such effects might include the construction of wormholes and warp drives for faster-than-light travel, and violations of the second law of thermodynamics. Open problems and future directions are also discussed.

id: gr-qc/0409093
title: Energy Flux Correlations and Moving Mirrors
authors: L.H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 125008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409093
abstract: We study the quantum stress tensor correlation function for a massless scalar field in a flat two-dimensional spacetime containing a moving mirror. We construct the correlation functions for right-moving and left-moving fluxes for an arbitrary trajectory, and then specialize them to the case of a mirror trajectory for which the expectation value of the stress tensor describes a pair of delta-function pulses, one of negative energy and one of positive energy. The flux correlation function describes the fluctuations around this mean stress tensor, and reveals subtle changes in the correlations between regions where the mean flux vanishes.

id: gr-qc/0409112
title: Signaling, Entanglement, and Quantum Evolution Beyond Cauchy Horizons
authors: Ulvi Yurtsever, George Hockney
comments: Combined, revised, and expanded version of quant-ph/0312160 and hep-th/0402060; 13 pages, RevTeX, 2 eps figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 22 (2005) 295-312
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409112
abstract: Consider a bipartite entangled system half of which falls through the event horizon of an evaporating black hole, while the other half remains coherently accessible to experiments in the exterior region. Beyond complete evaporation, the evolution of the quantum state past the Cauchy horizon cannot remain unitary, raising the questions: How can this evolution be described as a quantum map, and how is causality preserved? What are the possible effects of such nonstandard quantum evolution maps on the behavior of the entangled laboratory partner? More generally, the laws of quantum evolution under extreme conditions in remote regions (not just in evaporating black-hole interiors, but possibly near other naked singularities and regions of extreme spacetime structure) remain untested by observation, and might conceivably be non-unitary or even nonlinear, raising the same questions about the evolution of entangled states. The answers to these questions are subtle, and are linked in unexpected ways to the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics. We show that terrestrial experiments can be designed to probe and constrain exactly how the laws of quantum evolution might be altered, either by black-hole evaporation, or by other extreme processes in remote regions possibly governed by unknown physics.

id: hep-ph/0409233
title: Introduction to Nonequilibrium Quantum Field Theory
authors: J. Berges
comments: 131 pages, figures
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.739:3-62,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0409233
abstract: There has been substantial progress in recent years in the quantitative understanding of the nonequilibrium time evolution of quantum fields. Important topical applications, in particular in high energy particle physics and cosmology, involve dynamics of quantum fields far away from the ground state or thermal equilibrium. In these cases, standard approaches based on small deviations from equilibrium, or on a sufficient homogeneity in time underlying kinetic descriptions, are not applicable. A particular challenge is to connect the far-from-equilibrium dynamics at early times with the approach to thermal equilibrium at late times. Understanding the ``link'' between the early- and the late-time behavior of quantum fields is crucial for a wide range of phenomena. For the first time questions such as the explosive particle production at the end of the inflationary universe, including the subsequent process of thermalization, can be addressed in quantum field theory from first principles. The progress in this field is based on efficient functional integral techniques, so-called n-particle irreducible effective actions, for which powerful nonperturbative approximation schemes are available. Here we give an introduction to these techniques and show how they can be applied in practice. Though we focus on particle physics and cosmology applications, we emphasize that these techniques can be equally applied to other nonequilibrium phenomena in complex many body systems.

id: hep-th/0409076
title: Self-Duality and Phase Structure of the 4D Random-Plaquette Z_2 Gauge Model
authors: Gaku Arakawa, Ikuo Ichinose, Tetsuo Matsui, Koujin Takeda
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B709:296-306,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0409076
abstract: In the present paper, we shall study the 4-dimensional Z_2 lattice gauge model with a random gauge coupling; the random-plaquette gauge model(RPGM). The random gauge coupling at each plaquette takes the value J with the probability 1-p and -J with p. This model exhibits a confinement-Higgs phase transition. We numerically obtain a phase boundary curve in the (p-T)-plane where T is the "temperature" measured in unit of J/k_B. This model plays an important role in estimating the accuracy threshold of a quantum memory of a toric code. In this paper, we are mainly interested in its "self-duality" aspect, and the relationship with the random-bond Ising model(RBIM) in 2-dimensions. The "self-duality" argument can be applied both for RPGM and RBIM, giving the same duality equations, hence predicting the same phase boundary. The phase boundary curve obtained by our numerical simulation almost coincides with this predicted phase boundary at the high-temperature region. The phase transition is of first order for relatively small values of p < 0.08, but becomes of second order for larger p. The value of p at the intersection of the phase boundary curve and the Nishimori line is regarded as the accuracy threshold of errors in a toric quantum memory. It is estimated as p=0.110\pm0.002, which is very close to the value conjectured by Takeda and Nishimori through the "self-duality" argument.

id: hep-th/0409216
title: Exact closed-form solutions of the Dirac equation with a scalar exponential potential
authors: Antonio S. de Castro, Marcelo Hott
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A342 (2005) 53-59
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0409216
abstract: The problem of a fermion subject to a general scalar potential in a two-dimensional world for nonzero eigenenergies is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville problem for the upper component of the Dirac spinor. In the specific circumstance of an exponential potential, we have an effective Morse potential which reveals itself as an essentially relativistic problem. Exact bound solutions are found in closed form for this problem. The behaviour of the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor is discussed in detail, particularly the existence of zero modes.

id: hep-th/0409294
title: Bounded solutions of fermions in the background of mixed vector-scalar inversely linear potentials
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 316 (2005) 414-430
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0409294
abstract: The problem of a fermion subject to a general mixing of vector and scalar potentials in a two-dimensional world is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville problem. Isolated bounded solutions are also searched. For the specific case of an inversely linear potential, which gives rise to an effective Kratzer potential in the Sturm-Liouville problem, exact bounded solutions are found in closed form. The case of a pure scalar potential with their isolated zero-energy solutions, already analyzed in a previous work, is obtained as a particular case. The behaviour of the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor is discussed in detail and some unusual results are revealed. The nonrelativistic limit of our results adds a new support to the conclusion that even-parity solutions to the nonrelativistic one-dimensional hydrogen atom do not exist.

id: math-ph/0409003
title: Supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Avinash Khare
comments: Latex file, 4 figures, Lecture Notes presented at EALF 2004, Will be published in the AIP Conference Proceedings AIP
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0409003
abstract: An elementary introduction is given to the subject of Supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanics. We demonstrate with explicit examples that given a solvable problem in quantum mechanics with n bound states, one can construct new exactly solvable n Hamiltonians having n-1,n-2,...,0 bound states. The relationship between the eigenvalues, eigenfunctions and scattering matrix of the supersymmetric partner potentials is derived and a class of reflectionless potentials are explicitly constructed. We extend the operator method of solving the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator problem to a class of potentials called shape invariant potentials. Further, we show that given any potential with at least one bound state, one can very easily construct one continuous parameter family of potentials having same eigenvalues and s-matrix. The supersymmetry inspired WKB approximation (SWKB) is also discussed and it is shown that unlike the usual WKB, the lowest order SWKB approximation is exact for the shape invariant potentials. Finally, we also construct new exactly solvable periodic potentials by using the machinery of supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: math-ph/0409031
title: The Higher-Dimensional Rudnick-Kurlberg Conjecture
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: 26 pages, preliminary version, proof conjecture for "generic" ergodic automorphism
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0409031
abstract: In this paper we give a proof of the {\it Hecke quantum unique ergodicity conjecture} for the multidimensional Berry-Hannay model. A model of quantum mechanics on the 2n-dimensional torus. This result generalizes the proof of the {\it Rudnick-Kurlberg Conjecture} given in \cite{GH3} for the 2-dimensional torus.

id: math/0409228
title: Hamilton Cycles in Digraphs of Unitary Matrices
authors: Gregory Gutin, Arash Rafiey, Simone Severini, Anders Yeo
comments: 8 pages
journal: Discrete Mathematics 306 (2006), 3315-3320
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0409228
abstract: A set $S\subseteq V$ is called an {\em $q^+$-set} ({\em $q^-$-set}, respectively) if $S$ has at least two vertices and, for every $u\in S$, there exists $v\in S, v\neq u$ such that $N^+(u)\cap N^+(v)\neq \emptyset$ ($N^-(u)\cap N^-(v)\neq \emptyset$, respectively). A digraph $D$ is called {\em s-quadrangular} if, for every $q^+$-set $S$, we have $|\cup \{N^+(u)\cap N^+(v): u\neq v, u,v\in S\}|\ge |S|$ and, for every $q^-$-set $S$, we have $|\cup \{N^-(u)\cap N^-(v): u,v\in S)\}\ge |S|$. We conjecture that every strong s-quadrangular digraph has a Hamilton cycle and provide some support for this conjecture.

id: math/0409474
title: Quadrangularity and Strong Quadrangularity in Tournaments
authors: J. Richard Lundgren, K.B. Reid, Simone Severini, Dustin J. Stewart
comments: 12 pages
journal: Australasian Journal of Combinatorics, vol.34, p.247, 2005
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0409474
abstract: The pattern of a matrix M is a (0,1)-matrix which replaces all non-zero entries of M with a 1. A directed graph is said to support M if its adjacency matrix is the pattern of M. If M is an orthogonal matrix, then a digraph which supports M must satisfy a condition known as quadrangularity. We look at quadrangularity in tournaments and determine for which orders quadrangular tournaments exist. We also look at a more restrictive necessary condition for a digraph to support an orthogonal matrix, and give a construction for tournaments which meet this condition.

id: nlin/0409007
title: Fidelity Decay for Phase Space Displacements
authors: Diego V. Bevilaqua, Eric J. Heller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0409007
abstract: In this letter we analyse the behavior of fidelity decay under a very specific kind of perturbation: phase space displacements. Under these perturbations, systems will decay following the Lyapunov regime only. Others universal regimes discussed in the literature are not presented in this case; instead, for small values of the perturbation we observe quantum freeze of the fidelity. We also show that it is possible to connect this result with the incoherent neutron scattering problem

id: nlin/0409021
title: Fidelity recovery in chaotic systems and the Debye-Waller factor
authors: H.-J. Stoeckmann, R. Schaefer
comments: revised version (major changes), 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0409021
abstract: Using supersymmetry calculations and random matrix simulations, we studied the decay of the average of the fidelity amplitude f_epsilon(tau)=<psi(0)| exp(2 pi i H_epsilon tau) exp(-2 pi i H_0 tau) |psi(0)>, where H_epsilon differs from H_0 by a slight perturbation characterized by the parameter epsilon. For strong perturbations a recovery of f_epsilon(tau) at the Heisenberg time tau=1 is found. It is most pronounced for the Gaussian symplectic ensemble, and least for the Gaussian orthogonal one. Using Dyson's Brownian motion model for an eigenvalue crystal, the recovery is interpreted in terms of a spectral analogue of the Debye-Waller factor known from solid state physics, describing the decrease of X-ray and neutron diffraction peaks with temperature due to lattice vibrations.

id: nlin/0409032
title: Quantum integrable multi atom matter-radiation models with and without rotating wave approximation
authors: Anjan Kundu
comments: 9 pages, no figure, talk presented in int. conf. NEEDS04 (Gallipoli, Italy, July 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0409032
abstract: New integrable multi-atom matter-radiation models with and without rotating wave approximation (RWA) are constructed and exactly solved through algebraic Bethe ansatz. The models with RWA are generated through ancestor model approach in an unified way. The rational case yields the standard type of matter-radiaton models, while the trigonometric case corresponds to their q-deformations. The models without RWA are obtained from the elliptic case at the Gaudin and high spin limit.

id: nucl-th/0409023
title: Renormalization of $NN$ scattering: contact potential
authors: J.-F. Yang, Jian-Hua Huang
comments: 18 pages(2 figures, 1 table), published in Phys. Rev. C, typos removed (including the ones in Appendix A, not corrected in Erratum)
journal: Phys.Rev.C71:034001,2005; Erratum-ibid.C71:069901,2005
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0409023
abstract: The renormalization of the $T$-matrix for $NN$ scattering with a contact potential is reexamined in a nonperturbative regime through rigorous nonperturbative solutions. Based on the underlying theory point of view, it is shown that the UV divergences in the nonperturbative solutions of the $T$-matrix should be subtracted through 'endogenous' counter terms, which in turn leads to a nontrivial prescription dependence. Moreover, employing the effective range expansion, the important procedure for imposing physical boundary conditions to remove the nontrivial prescription dependence is discussed and highlighted, especially before making physical claims. As byproducts, some relations between the effective range expansion parameters are derived. We also discussed the power counting of the couplings for the nucleon-nucleon interactions and other subtle points present within EFT framework beyond perturbative treatment.

id: nucl-th/0409037
title: Method of multiple internal reflections in description of nuclear alpha-decay
authors: Sergei P. Maydanyuk, Vladislav S.Olkhovsky, Sergei V. Belchikov
comments: 7 pages, no figures, Standard LaTeX v.2e. Corrections of LaTeX style (a little)
journal: Problems of atomic science and technology (Voprosi atomnoi nauki i tehniki, RFNC-VNIIEF, Sarov, Russia), v. 1 (2), 16-19 (2002)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0409037
abstract: A spatial-time method of description of alpha-decay of a nucleus is presented. The method is based on the quantum mechanical model of the alpha-decay of a compound nuclear system with the barrier. alpha-decay dynamics is described on the basis of multiple internal reflections of wave packets from boundaries of the decay barrier. The method allows to study this process in details at any time moment or point of space. According to the method, some time before the time moment of the nuclear decay the nucleus makes oscilations. In the calculations of the time duration of the alpha-decay of the compound nucleus we propose to take into account the time durations of these oscillations. The method of the multiple internal reflections allows to calculate the time of such oscillations before the alpha-decay and the total alpha-decay time.

id: physics/0409038
title: New experimental and theoretical approach to the 3d D-level lifetimes of 40Ca+
authors: A. Kreuter, C. Becher, G.P.T. Lancaster, A.B. Mundt, C. Russo, H. H?ffner, C. Roos, W. H?nsel, F. Schmidt-Kaler, R. Blatt, M.S. Safronova
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0409038
abstract: We report measurements of the lifetimes of the 3d $^2$D$_{5/2}$ and 3d $^2$D$_{3/2}$ metastable states of a single laser-cooled $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion in a linear Paul trap. We introduce a new measurement technique based on high-efficiency quantum state detection after coherent excitation to the D$_{5/2}$ state or incoherent shelving in the D$_{3/2}$ state, and subsequent free, unperturbed spontaneous decay. The result for the natural lifetime of the D$_{5/2}$ state of 1168(9) ms agrees excellently with the most precise published value. The lifetime of the D$_{3/2}$ state is measured with a single ion for the first time and yields 1176(11) ms which improves the statistical uncertainty of previous results by a factor of four. We compare these experimental lifetimes to high-precision ab initio all order calculations and find a very good agreement. These calculations represent an excellent test of high-precision atomic theory and will serve as a benchmark for the study of parity nonconservation in Ba$^+$ which has similar atomic structure.

id: physics/0409146
title: Hyperfine Spectroscopy of Optically Trapped Atoms
authors: A. Kaplan, M. F. Andersen, T. Gr¨¹nzweig, N. Davidson
comments: Review/Tutorial
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0409146
abstract: We perform spectroscopy on the hyperfine splitting of $^{85}$Rb atoms trapped in far-off-resonance optical traps. The existence of a spatially dependent shift in the energy levels is shown to induce an inherent dephasing effect, which causes a broadening of the spectroscopic line and hence an inhomogeneous loss of atomic coherence at a much faster rate than the homogeneous one caused by spontaneous photon scattering. We present here a number of approaches for reducing this inhomogeneous broadening, based on trap geometry, additional laser fields, and novel microwave pulse sequences. We then show how hyperfine spectroscopy can be used to study quantum dynamics of optically trapped atoms.

id: q-bio/0409037
title: The dissipative brain
authors: Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 14 pages
journal: Published in ``Brain and Being - At the boundary between science,philosophy,language and arts'', p.317; Eds.G.G.Globus, K.H.Pribram and G.Vitiello, John Benjamins Pub. Co. Amstedam, 2004
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0409037
abstract: I review the dissipative quantum model of brain and discuss its recent developments related with the role of entanglement, quantum noise and chaos. Some comments on consciousness in the frame of the dissipative model are also presented. Dissipation seems to account for the medial character of consciousness, for its being in the present (the Now), its un-dividable unity, its intrinsic subjectivity (autonomy). Finally, essential features of a conscious artificial device, if ever one can construct it, are briefly commented upon, also in relation to a device able to exhibit mistakes in its behavior. The name I give to such a hypothetical device is Spartacus.

id: gr-qc/0409077
title: Testing Quantum Gravity via Cosmogenic Neutrino Oscillations
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX4; Essentially the published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D71:024012,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0409077
abstract: Implications of some proposed theories of quantum gravity for neutrino flavor oscillations are explored within the context of modified dispersion relations of special relativity. In particular, approximate expressions for Planck-scale-induced deviations from the standard oscillation length are obtained as functions of neutrino mass, energy, and propagation distance. Grounding on these expressions, it is pointed out that, in general, even those deviations that are suppressed by the second power of the Planck energy may be observable for ultra-high-energy neutrinos, provided they originate at cosmological distances. In fact, for neutrinos in the highest energy range of EeV to ZeV, deviations that are suppressed by as much as the seventh power of the Planck energy may become observable. Accordingly, realistic possibilities of experimentally verifying these deviations by means of the next generation neutrino detectors--such as IceCube and ANITA--are investigated.

