id: quant-ph/0411001
title: Distinguishability, contrast and complementarity in multimode two-particle interferences
authors: P. Sancho
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: 37 (2004) 11003-11016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411001
abstract: Multimode two-particle systems show interference effects in one-particle detections when both particles have common modes. We explore the possibility of extending the usual concepts of distinguishability and visibility to these types of systems. Distinguishability will refer now to the balance between common and different modes of a two-particle system, instead of the standard definition concerning available alternatives for a one-particle system. On the other hand, the usual concept of visibility is not suitable for our problem and must be replaced with that of contrast, measuring the ratio of detection probabilities with and without interference effects. Finally, we show that for the type of states considered in the paper there is a complementarity relation between distinguishability and contrast for two-bosons systems. In contrast, there is no two-fermion counterpart.

id: quant-ph/0411002
title: Electromagnetic field quantization in a linear dielectric medium
authors: F. Kheirandish, M. Amooshahi
comments: 19 pages, No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411002
abstract: By modeling a dielectric medium with two independent reservoirs, i.e., electric and magnetic reservoirs, the electromagnetic field is quantized in a linear dielectric medium consistently. A Hamiltonian is proposed from which using the Heisenberg equations, not only the Maxwell equations but also the structural equations can be obtained. Using the Laplace transformation, the wave equation for the electromagnetic vector potential is solved in the case of a homogeneous dielectric medium. Some examples are considered showing the applicability of the model to both absorptive and nonabsorptive dielectrics.

id: quant-ph/0411003
title: The controlled indirect coupling between spatially-separated qubits in antiferromagnet-based NMR quantum registers
authors: A.A. Kokin
comments: Latex 5 pages, 1 figure. Presented at International Symposium "Quantum Informatics 2004" Moscow, October 5-8, 2004. Will be published in Proc. SPIE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411003
abstract: It is considered the indirect inter-qubit coupling in 1D chain of atoms with nuclear spins 1/2, which plays role of qubits in the quantum register. This chain of the atoms is placed by regular way in easy-axis 3D antiferromagnetic thin plate substrate, which is cleaned from the other nuclear spin containing isotopes. It is shown that the range of indirect inter-spin coupling may run to a great number of lattice constants both near critical point of quantum phase transition in antiferromagnet of spin-flop type (control parameter is external magnetic field) and/or near homogeneous antiferromagnetic resonance (control parameter is microwave frequency).

id: quant-ph/0411004
title: Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, Xiongfeng Ma, Kai Chen
comments: Slightly shortened version. Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters, 94 (2005) 230504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411004
abstract: There has been much interest in quantum key distribution. Experimentally, quantum key distribution over 150 km of commercial Telecom fibers has been successfully performed. The crucial issue in quantum key distribution is its security. Unfortunately, all recent experiments are, in principle, insecure due to real-life imperfections. Here, we propose a method that can for the first time make most of those experiments secure by using essentially the same hardware. Our method is to use decoy states to detect eavesdropping attacks. As a consequence, we have the best of both worlds--enjoying unconditional security guaranteed by the fundamental laws of physics and yet dramatically surpassing even some of the best experimental performances reported in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0411005
title: A physical basis for the phase in Feynman path integration
authors: G.N. Ord, J. A. Gualtieri, R.B. Mann
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411005
abstract: In the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the phase factor Exp[iS(x[t])] is associated with every path x[t]. Summing this factor over all paths yields Feynman's propagator as a sum-over-paths. In the original formulation, the complex phase was a mathematical device invoked to extract wave behaviour in a particle framework. In this paper we show that the phase itself can have a physical origin in time reversal, and that the propagator can be drawn by a single deterministic path.

id: quant-ph/0411006
title: Topological properties of Berry's phase
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 9 pages. A new reference was added, and the abstract and the presentation in the body of the paper have been expanded and made more precise
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 335-344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411006
abstract: By using a second quantized formulation of level crossing, which does not assume adiabatic approximation, a convenient formula for geometric terms including off-diagonal terms is derived. The analysis of geometric phases is reduced to a simple diagonalization of the Hamiltonian in the present formulation. If one diagonalizes the geometric terms in the infinitesimal neighborhood of level crossing, the geometric phases become trivial for any finite time interval $T$. The topological interpretation of Berry's phase such as the topological proof of phase-change rule thus fails in the practical Born-Oppenheimer approximation, where a large but finite ratio of two time scales is involved.

id: quant-ph/0411007
title: Decoherence of a two-state atom driven by coherent light
authors: Hyunchul Nha, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 013805 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411007
abstract: Recent studies of the decoherence induced by the quantum nature of the laser field driving a two-state atom [J. Gea-Banacloche, Phys. Rev. A 65, 022308 (2002); S. J. van Enk and H. J. Kimble, Quantum Inf. and Comp. 2, 1 (2002)] have been questioned by Itano [W. M. Itano, Phys. Rev. A 68, 046301 (2003)] and the proposal made that all decoherence is due to spontaneous emission. We analyze the problem within the formalism of cascaded open quantum systems. Our conclusions agree with the Itano proposal. We show that the decoherence, nevertheless, may be divided into two parts--that due to forwards scattering and to scattering out of the laser mode. Previous authors attribute the former to the quantum nature of the laser field.

id: quant-ph/0411008
title: Quantum error correction fails for Hamiltonian models
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411008
abstract: It is argued that the existing schemes of fault-tolerant quantum computation designed for discrete-time models and based on quantum error correction fail for continuous-time Hamiltonian models even with Markovian noise.

id: quant-ph/0411009
title: Molecular effects in the ionization of N$_2$, O$_2$ and F$_2$ by intense laser fields
authors: Daniel Dundas, Jan M. Rost
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411009
abstract: In this paper we study the response in time of N$_2$, O$_2$ and F$_2$ to laser pulses having a wavelength of 390nm. We find single ionization suppression in O$_2$ and its absence in F$_2$, in accordance with experimental results at $\lambda = 800$nm. Within our framework of time-dependent density functional theory we are able to explain deviations from the predictions of Intense-Field Many-Body $S$-Matrix Theory (IMST). We confirm the connection of ionization suppression with destructive interference of outgoing electron waves from the ionized electron orbital. However, the prediction of ionization suppression, justified within the IMST approach through the symmetry of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), is not reliable since it turns out that, e.g. in the case of F$_2$, the electronic response to the laser pulse is rather complicated and does not lead to dominant depletion of the HOMO. Therefore, the symmetry of the HOMO is not sufficient to predict ionization suppression. However, at least for F$_2$, the symmetry of the dominantly ionized orbital is consistent with the non-suppression of ionization.

id: quant-ph/0411010
title: State preparation based on Grover's algorithm in the presence of global information about the state
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411010
abstract: In a previous paper [quant-ph/0408045] we described a quantum algorithm to prepare an arbitrary state of a quantum register with arbitrary fidelity. Here we present an alternative algorithm which uses a small number of quantum oracles encoding the most significant bits of the absolute value of the complex amplitudes, and a small number of oracles encoding the most significant bits of the phases. The algorithm given here is considerably simpler than the one described in [quant-ph/0408045], on the assumption that a sufficient amount of knowledge about the distribution of the absolute values of the complex amplitudes is available.

id: quant-ph/0411011
title: Efficient tests for experimental quantum gates
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 5 pages, including one table, contribution to the proceedings of QIT11, held December 6th to 7th 2004 in Kyoto
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411011
abstract: Realistic quantum gates operate at non-vanishing noise levels. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the performance of each device according to some experimentally observable criteria of device performance. In this presentation, the characteristic properties of quantum operations are discussed and efficient measurement strategies are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0411012
title: Transporting, splitting and merging of atomic ensembles in a chip trap
authors: P. Hommelhoff, W. H?nsel, T. Steinmetz, T. W. H?nsch, J. Reichel
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures. For associated animated gif files, see this http URL (click on "Atomic movies"). Published version has much better (figure) quality than in the arxiv version, also some minor improvements
journal: New J. Phys. 7 (2005) 3
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411012
abstract: We present a toolbox for cold atom manipulation with time-dependent magnetic fields generated by an atom chip. Wire layouts, detailed experimental procedures and results are presented for the following experiments: Use of a magnetic conveyor belt for positioning of cold atoms and Bose-Einstein condensates with a resolution of two nanometers; splitting of thermal clouds and BECs in adjustable magnetic double well potentials; controlled splitting of a cold reservoir. The devices that enable these manipulations can be combined with each other. We demonstrate this by combining reservoir splitter and conveyor belt to obtain a cold atom dispenser. We discuss the importance of these devices for quantum information processing, atom interferometry and Josephson junction physics on the chip. For all devices, absorption-image video sequences are provided to demonstrate their time-dependent behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0411013
title: Towards Efficiently Solving Quantum Traveling Salesman Problem
authors: Debabrata Goswami, Harish Karnick, Prateek Jain, Hemanta K. Maji
comments: 4 pages, 3 tables, PRL (submitted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411013
abstract: We present a framework for efficiently solving Approximate Traveling Salesman Problem (Approximate TSP) for Quantum Computing Models. Existing representations of TSP introduce extra states which do not correspond to any permutation. We present an efficient and intuitive encoding for TSP in quantum computing paradigm. Using this representation and assuming a Gaussian distribution on tour-lengths, we give an algorithm to solve Approximate TSP (Euclidean) within BQP resource bounds. Generalizing this strategy for any distribution, we present an oracle based Quantum Algorithm to solve Approximate TSP. We present a realization of the oracle in the quantum counterpart of PP.

id: quant-ph/0411014
title: Upper and lower bounds on the mean square radius and criteria for occurrence of quantum halo states
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A70 (2004) 062112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411014
abstract: In the context of non-relativistic quantum mechanics, we obtain several upper and lower limits on the mean square radius applicable to systems composed by two-body bound by a central potential. A lower limit on the mean square radius is used to obtain a simple criteria for the occurrence of S-wave quantum halo sates.

id: quant-ph/0411015
title: Storage and perpendicular retrieving of two-dimensional pulses in electromagnetically induced transparency media
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411015
abstract: Propagation of two dimensional pulses in electromagnetically induced tranparency media in the case of perpendicular storing and retrieving pulses has been analyzed. It has been shown that propagation control of the pulses in optically thick media can be used for producing interchange between pulse time-shape and intensity profile distribution. A simple obvious analytical solution for the retrieved new field has been obtained.

id: quant-ph/0411016
title: Information Entropy and Correlation of the Hooke's Atom
authors: Rajneesh Atre, Chandra Shekhar Mohapatra, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411016
abstract: We provide an algebraic procedure to find the eigenstates of two-charged particles in an oscillator potential, known as {\it{Hooke's}} atom. For the planar Hooke's atom, the exact eigenstates and single particle densities for arbitrary azimuthal quantum number, are obtained analytically. Information entropies associated with the wave functions for the relative motion are then studied systematically, since the same incorporates the effect of the Coulomb interaction. The {\it{quantum pottery}} of the information entropy density reveals a number of intricate structures, which differ significantly for the attractive and repulsive cases. We indicate the procedure to obtain the approximate eigen states. Making use of the relationship of this dynamical system with the quasi-exactly solvable systems, one can also develop a suitable perturbation theory, involving the Coulomb coupling $Z$, for the approximate wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0411017
title: Harmonic Oscillators as Bridges between Theories: Einstein, Dirac, and Feynman
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTeX 17 pages, 7 figures, presented at the International Symposium on Interdisciplinary Science (Natchitoches, Louisiana, October 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411017
abstract: Other than scattering problems where perturbation theory is applicable, there are basically two ways to solve problems in physics. One is to reduce the problem to harmonic oscillators, and the other is to formulate the problem in terms of two-by-two matrices. If two oscillators are coupled, the problem combines both two-by-two matrices and harmonic oscillators. This method then becomes a powerful research tool to cover many different branches of physics. Indeed, the concept and methodology in one branch of physics can be translated into another through the common mathematical formalism. Coupled oscillators provide clear illustrative examples for some of the current issues in physics, including entanglement, decoherence, and Feynman's rest of the universe. In addition, it is noted that the present form of quantum mechanics is largely a physics of harmonic oscillators. Special relativity is the physics of the Lorentz group which can be represented by the group of by two-by-two matrices commonly called $SL(2,c)$. Thus the coupled harmonic oscillators can therefore play the role of combining quantum mechanics with special relativity. Both Paul A. M. Dirac and Richard P. Feynman were fond of harmonic oscillators, while they used different approaches to physical problems. Both were also keenly interested in making quantum mechanics compatible with special relativity. It is shown that the coupled harmonic oscillators can bridge these two different approaches to physics.

id: quant-ph/0411018
title: Work extraction in the spin-boson model
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, R. Serral Gracia, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411018
abstract: We show that work can be extracted from a two-level system (spin) coupled to a bosonic thermal bath. This is possible due to different initial temperatures of the spin and the bath, both positive (no spin population inversion) and is realized by means of a suitable sequence of sharp pulses applied to the spin. The extracted work can be of the order of the response energy of the bath, therefore much larger than the energy of the spin. Moreover, the efficiency of extraction can be very close to its maximum, given by the Carnot bound, at the same time the overall amount of the extracted work is maximal. Therefore, we get a finite power at efficiency close to the Carnot bound. The effect comes from the backreaction of the spin on the bath, and it survives for a strongly disordered (inhomogeneously broadened) ensemble of spins. It is connected with generation of coherences during the work-extraction process, and we derived it in an exactly solvable model. All the necessary general thermodynamical relations are derived from the first principles of quantum mechanics and connections are made with processes of lasing without inversion and with quantum heat engines.

id: quant-ph/0411019
title: Consequence for Wavefunction Collapse Model of the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory Experiment
authors: Gordon Jones, Philip Pearle, James Ring
comments: 8 pages
journal: Found.Phys.34:1467-1474,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411019
abstract: It is shown that data on the dissociation rate of deuterium obtained in an experiment at the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory provides evidence that the Continuous Spontaneous Localization wavefunction collapse model should have mass--proportional coupling to be viable.

id: quant-ph/0411020
title: Perfect Transfer of Arbitrary States in Quantum Spin Networks
authors: Matthias Christandl, Nilanjana Datta, Tony C. Dorlas, Artur Ekert, Alastair Kay, Andrew J. Landahl
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures with updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411020
abstract: We propose a class of qubit networks that admit perfect state transfer of any two-dimensional quantum state in a fixed period of time. We further show that such networks can distribute arbitrary entangled states between two distant parties, and can, by using such systems in parallel, transmit the higher dimensional systems states across the network. Unlike many other schemes for quantum computation and communication, these networks do not require qubit couplings to be switched on and off. When restricted to $N$-qubit spin networks of identical qubit couplings, we show that $2\log_3 N$ is the maximal perfect communication distance for hypercube geometries. Moreover, if one allows fixed but different couplings between the qubits then perfect state transfer can be achieved over arbitrarily long distances in a linear chain. This paper expands and extends the work done in PRL 92, 187902.

id: quant-ph/0411021
title: Theory of multiwave mixing and decoherence control in qubit array system
authors: M. Sasaki, A. Hasegawa, J. I. Hayase, Y. Mitsumori, F. Minami
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411021
abstract: We develop a theory to analyze the decoherence effect in a charged qubit array system with photon echo signals in the multiwave mixing configuration. We present how the decoherence suppression effect by the {\it bang-bang} control with the $\pi$ pulses can be demonstrated in laboratory by using a bulk ensemble of exciton qubits and optical pulses whose pulse area is even smaller than $\pi$. Analysis is made on the time-integated multiwave mixing signals diffracted into certain phase matching directions from a bulk ensemble. Depending on the pulse interval conditions, the cross over from the decoherence acceleration regime to the decoherence suppression regime, which is a peculiar feature of the coherent interaction between a qubit and the reservoir bosons, may be observed in the time-integated multiwave mixing signals in the realistic case including inhomogeneous broadening effect. Our analysis will successfully be applied to precise estimation of the reservoir parameters from experimental data of the direction resolved signal intensities obtained in the multiwave mixing technique.

id: quant-ph/0411022
title: Towards practical and fast Quantum Cryptography
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Gregoire Ribordy, Hugo Zbinden, Damien Stucki, Nicolas Brunner, Valerio Scarani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411022
abstract: We present a new protocol for practical quantum cryptography, tailored for an implementation with weak coherent pulses. The key is obtained by a very simple time-of-arrival measurement on the data line; an interferometer is built on an additional monitoring line, allowing to monitor the presence of a spy (who would break coherence by her intervention). Against zero-error attacks (the analog of photon-number-splitting attacks), this protocol performs as well as standard protocols with strong reference pulses: the key rate decreases only as the transmission $t$ of the quantum channel. We present also two attacks that introduce errors on the monitoring line: the intercept-resend, and a coherent attack on two subsequent pulses. Finally, we sketch several possible variations of this protocol.

id: quant-ph/0411023
title: Nonlinear interactions with an ultrahigh flux of broadband entangled photons
authors: Barak Dayan, Avi pe'er, Asher A. Friesem, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Accepted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 043602 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411023
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate sum-frequency generation (SFG) with entangled photon-pairs, generating as many as 40,000 SFG photons per second, visible even to the naked eye. The nonclassical nature of the interaction is exhibited by a linear intensity-dependence of the nonlinear process. The key element in our scheme is the generation of an ultrahigh flux of entangled photons while maintaining their nonclassical properties. This is made possible by generating the down-converted photons as broadband as possible, orders of magnitude wider than the pump. This approach is readily applicable for other nonlinear interactions, and may be applicable for various quantum-measurement tasks.

id: quant-ph/0411024
title: Quantum probability applied to the damped harmonic oscillator
authors: Hans Maassen
comments: 36 pages, summer school course, Grenoble 1998
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411024
abstract: In this introductory course we sketch the framework of quantum probability in order to discuss open quantum systems, in particular the damped harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0411025
title: Efficiency of Ground State Quantum Computer
authors: Wenjin Mao
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 060309(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411025
abstract: The energy gap is calculated for the ground state quantum computer circuit, which was recently proposed by Mizel et.al. When implementing a quantum algorithm by Hamiltonians containing only pairwise interaction, the inverse of energy gap $1/\Delta$ is proportional to $N^{4k}$, where $N$ is the number of bits involved in the problem, and $N^k$ is the number of control operations performed in a standard quantum paradigm. Besides suppressing decoherence due to the energy gap, in polynomial time ground state quantum computer can finish the quantum algorithms that are supposed to be implemented by standard quantum computer in polynomial time.

id: quant-ph/0411026
title: The Strong Levinson Theorem for the Dirac Equation
authors: Alex Calogeracos, Norman Dombey
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 180405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411026
abstract: We consider the Dirac equation in one space dimension in the presence of a symmetric potential well. We connect the scattering phase shifts at E=+m and E=-m to the number of states that have left the positive energy continuum or joined the negative energy continuum respectively as the potential is turned on from zero.

id: quant-ph/0411027
title: Qubiter Algorithm Modification, Expressing Unstructured Unitary Matrices with Fewer CNOTs
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 20 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 3 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411027
abstract: A quantum compiler is a software program for decomposing ("compiling") an arbitrary unitary matrix into a sequence of elementary operations (SEO). The author of this paper is also the author of a quantum compiler called Qubiter. Qubiter uses a matrix decomposition called the Cosine-Sine Decomposition (CSD) that is well known in the field of Computational Linear Algebra. One way of measuring the efficiency of a quantum compiler is to measure the number of CNOTs it uses to express an unstructured unitary matrix (a unitary matrix with no special symmetries). We will henceforth refer to this number as $\epsilon$. In this paper, we show how to improve $\epsilon$ for Qubiter so that it matches the current world record for $\epsilon$, which is held by another quantum compiling algorithm based on CSD.

id: quant-ph/0411028
title: Bounds on integrals of the Wigner function: the hyperbolic case
authors: J. G. Wood, A. J. Bracken
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys., 46, (2005) 042103.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411028
abstract: Wigner functions play a central role in the phase space formulation of quantum mechanics. Although closely related to classical Liouville densities, Wigner functions are not positive definite and may take negative values on subregions of phase space. We investigate the accumulation of these negative values by studying bounds on the integral of an arbitrary Wigner function over noncompact subregions of the phase plane with hyperbolic boundaries. We show using symmetry techniques that this problem reduces to computing the bounds on the spectrum associated with an exactly-solvable eigenvalue problem and that the bounds differ from those on classical Liouville distributions. In particular, we show that the total ``quasiprobability'' on such a region can be greater than 1 or less than zero.

id: quant-ph/0411029
title: A high-yield single photon source using gated spontaneous parametric down conversion
authors: Shigeki Takeuchi, Ryo Okamoto, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Applied Optics, Vol.43, No. 30 (2004) p5708-5711
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411029
abstract: The construction of a single photon source using gated parametric fluorescence is reported with the measurement results of the photon number distribution. A beamlike twin-photon method is used in order to achieve high collection efficiency. The estimated probability P(1) to find a single photon in a collimated output pulse is 26.5 % at a repetition rate of 10 kHz when the effective quantum efficiency of 27.4 % in the detection setup is compensated.

id: quant-ph/0411030
title: Improved W¨®jcik's Eavesdropping Attack on Ping-Pong Protocol Without Eavesdropping-Induced Channel Loss
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Yong Li, Zhong-xiao Man
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411030
abstract: The eavesdropping scheme proposed by W\'{o}jcik [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90},157901(2003)] on the ping-pong protocol [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 89}, 187902(2002)] is improved by constituting a new set of attack operations. The improved scheme has a zero eavesdropping-induced channel loss and produces perfect anticorrelation. Therefore, the eavesdropper Eve can safely attack all the transmitted bits and the eavesdropping information gain can always exceed the legitimate user's information gain in the whole domain of the quantum channel transmission efficiency $\eta$, i.e., [0,100%]. This means that the ping-pong protocol can be completely eavesdropped in its original version. But the improvement of the ping-pong protocol security produced by W\'{o}jcik is also suitable for our eavesdropping attack.

id: quant-ph/0411031
title: The Casimir Effect Upon A Single Plate
authors: Pervez Hoodbhoy
comments: 7 pages,LaTeX; 1 figure. More references, acknowledgments, typos corrected, and simpler forms for expressing key results
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 10253-10256
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411031
abstract: In the presence of an external field, the imposition of specific boundary conditions can lead to interesting new manifestations of the Casimir effect. In particular, it is shown here that even a single conducting plate may experience a non-zero force due to vacuum fluctuations. The origins of this force lie in the change induced by the external potential in the density of available quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0411032
title: Quantifying ground state entanglement of the BCS model
authors: Clare Dunning, Jon Links, Huan-Qiang Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. V2: added new results & discussion on crossover regime
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 94 (2005) 227002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411032
abstract: The concept of local concurrence is used to quantify the entanglement between a single qubit and the remainder of a multi-qubit system. For the ground state of the BCS model in the thermodynamic limit the set of local concurrences completely describe the entanglement. As a measure for the entanglement of the full system we investigate the Average Local Concurrence (ALC). We find that the ALC satisfies a simple relation with the order parameter. We then show that for finite systems with fixed particle number, a relation between the ALC and the condensation energy exposes a threshold coupling. Below the threshold, entanglement measures besides the ALC are significant.

id: quant-ph/0411033
title: Vacuum field correlations and three-body Casimir-Polder potential with one excited atom
authors: R. Passante, F. Persico, L. Rizzuto
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411033
abstract: The three-body Casimir-Polder potential between one excited and two ground-state atoms is evaluated. A physical model based on the dressed field correlations of vacuum fluctuations is used, generalizing a model previously introduced for three ground-state atoms. Although the three-body potential with one excited atom is already known in the literature, our model gives new insights on the nature of non-additive Casimir-Polder forces with one or more excited atoms.

id: quant-ph/0411034
title: From Fischer projections to quantum mechanics of tetrahedral molecules: new perspectives in chirality
authors: S. Capozziello, A. Lattanzi
comments: 33 pages, to appear in Adv. Quantum Chem
journal: Adv.Quant.Chem.49:227-247,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411034
abstract: The algebraic structure of central molecular chirality can be achieved starting from the geometrical representation of bonds of tetrahedral molecules, as complex numbers in polar form, and the empirical Fischer projections used in organic chemistry. A general orthogonal O(4) algebra is derived from which we obtain a chirality index related to the classification of a molecule as achiral, diastereoisomer or enantiomer. Consequently, the chiral features of tetrahedral chains can be predicted by means of a molecular Aufbau. Moreover, a consistent Schroedinger equation is developed, whose solutions are the bonds of tetrahedral molecules in complex number representation. Starting from this result, the O(4) algebra can be considered as a quantum chiral algebra. It is shown that the operators of such an algebra preserve the parity of the whole system.

id: quant-ph/0411035
title: $k$-decomposability of positive maps
authors: Wladyslaw A. Majewski, Marcin Marciniak
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411035
abstract: The problem of classification of decomposable (in the sense of Stormer) positive maps between matrix algebras is presented. We propose the new notion of "finite" version of decomposability ($k$-decomposabilty). The characterisation of $k$-decomposability on the Hilbert space level is done. In the case of low dimensional algebras the notion of local decomposability and its applications for the description of decomposable maps are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411036
title: Improved magic states distillation for quantum universality
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 4:251-264 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411036
abstract: Given stabilizer operations and the ability to repeatedly prepare a single-qubit mixed state rho, can we do universal quantum computation? As motivation for this question, "magic state" distillation procedures can reduce the general fault-tolerance problem to that of performing fault-tolerant stabilizer circuits. We improve the procedures of Bravyi and Kitaev in the Hadamard "magic" direction of the Bloch sphere to achieve a sharp threshold between those rho allowing universal quantum computation, and those for which any calculation can be efficiently classically simulated. As a corollary, the ability to repeatedly prepare any pure state which is not a stabilizer state (e.g., any single-qubit pure state which is not a Pauli eigenstate), together with stabilizer operations, gives quantum universality. It remains open whether there is also a tight separation in the so-called T direction.

id: quant-ph/0411037
title: The Hidden Subgroup Problem - Review and Open Problems
authors: Chris Lomont
comments: A thorough introduction to the HSP, with detailed proofs for many results, and an overview of the research literature through 2004. This is designed to bring more people to bear on the problem. 83 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411037
abstract: An overview of quantum computing and in particular the Hidden Subgroup Problem are presented from a mathematical viewpoint. Detailed proofs are supplied for many important results from the literature, and notation is unified, making it easier to absorb the background necessary to begin research on the Hidden Subgroup Problem. Proofs are provided which give very concrete algorithms and bounds for the finite abelian case with little outside references, and future directions are provided for the nonabelian case. This summary is current as of October 2004.

id: quant-ph/0411038
title: Read out of a Nuclear Spin Qubit
authors: M. Kindermann, D.G. Cory
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 6, 127 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411038
abstract: We propose a detector to read out the state of a single nuclear spin, with potential application in future scalable NMR quantum computers. It is based on a ``spin valve'' between bulk nuclear spin systems that is highly sensitive to the state of the measured spin. We suggest a concrete realization of that detector in a Silicon lattice. Transport of spin through the proposed spin valve is analogous to that of charge through an electronic nanostructure, but exhibits distinctive new features.

id: quant-ph/0411039
title: What was in the apparatus before the click
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: This article was withdrawn by the author due to some non-clear points and some mistakes in the calculus. Instead of it, the reader is referred to arXiv:1008.4849
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411039
abstract: From all the observables of a system, none is so close to our classical mentality as position. A system described by a multibranched wave function is studied, each branch corresponding to a separate path.The question is asked whether at a given moment in our apparatus only one of the paths is populated, or all the paths are populated. It is shown that the assumption that only one path is populated and the others aren't, leads to a contradiction. In direct connection with this, the view that the wave function is only a statistical tool and does not describe single quantum systems, is challenged. The judgement is local, single systems are examined.

id: quant-ph/0411040
title: Quantum entanglement as an interpretation of bosonic character in composite two-particle systems
authors: C. K. Law
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411040
abstract: We consider a composite particle formed by two fermions or two bosons. We discover that composite behavior is deeply related to the quantum entanglement between the constituent particles. By analyzing the properties of creation and annihilation operators, we show that bosonic character emerges if the constituent particles become strongly entangled. Such a connection is demonstrated explicitly in a class of two-particle wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0411041
title: Intercept-resend attacks in the Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocol with weak coherent pulses
authors: Marcos Curty, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411041
abstract: Unconditional security proofs of the Bennett-Brassard protocol of quantum key distribution have been obtained recently. These proofs cover also practical implementations that utilize weak coherent pulses in the four signal polarizations. Proven secure rates leave open the possibility that new proofs or new public discussion protocols obtain larger rates over increased distance. In this paper we investigate limits to error rate and signal losses that can be tolerated by future protocols and proofs.

id: quant-ph/0411042
title: Error threshold estimation by means of the [[7,1,3]] CSS quantum code
authors: Pedro J. Salas, Angel L. Sanz
comments: Includes 10 Figures and a Table. Accepted in I.J.Q.I
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411042
abstract: The states needed in a quantum computation are extremely affected by decoherence. Several methods have been proposed to control error spreading. They use two main tools: fault-tolerant constructions and concatenated quantum error correcting codes. In this work, we estimate the threshold conditions necessary to make a long enough quantum computation. The [[7,1,3]] CSS quantum code, together with the Shor method to measure the error syndrome is used. No concatenation is included. The decoherence is introduced by means of the depolarizing channel error model, obtaining several thresholds from the numerical simulation. Regarding the maintenance of a qubit stabilized in the memory, the error probability must be smaller than 2.9 10-5. In order to implement a one or two qubit encoded gate in an effective fault-tolerant way, it is possible to choose an adequate non-encoded noisy gate if the memory error probability is smaller than 1.3 10-5. In addition, fulfilling this last condition permits us to assume a more efficient behaviour compared to the equivalent non-encoded process.

id: quant-ph/0411043
title: Positive maps, states, entanglement and all that; some old and new problems
authors: Wladyslaw Adam Majewski
comments: Improved presentation. Comments, criticisms and sugestions are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411043
abstract: We outline a new approach to the characterization as well as to the classification of positive maps. This approach is based on the facial structures of the set of states and of the cone of positive maps. In particular, the equivalence between Schroedinger's and Heisenberg's pictures is reviewed in this more general setting. Furthermore, we discuss in detail the structure of positive maps for two and three dimensional systems. In particular, the explicit form of decomposition of a positive map and the uniqueness of this decomposition for extremal positive maps for 2 dimensional case are described. The difference of the structure of positive maps between 2 dimensional and 3 dimensional cases is clarified. The resulting characterization of positive maps is applied to the study of quantum correlations and entanglement

id: quant-ph/0411044
title: Berry's phase at quantum vacuum level
authors: Jian Qi Shen
comments: 4 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411044
abstract: The quantum vacuum contribution to Berry's geometric phase of photon fields inside a noncoplanarly curved (coiled) fiber is considered by means of the second-quantization formulation. It is shown that the quantum vacuum Berry's phases of left- and right-handed circularly polarized light have the equal magnitudes but opposite signs, and are therefore eliminated entirely by each other. In order to realize such a novel vacuum effect, a scheme to separate the quantum vacuum Berry's phase of one polarized light from another by using the chiral medium fiber is suggested. We think the present study might be the first treatment for the time evolution of vacuum zero-point energy.

id: quant-ph/0411045
title: Intrinsic decoherence effects on tripartite GHZ state generation using a trapped ion coupled to an optical cavity
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: Revtex, 5 pages
journal: Journal of Optics B-Quantum and Semiclassical Optics, Vol.7, No. 8, 230-233 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411045
abstract: We analyse the effects of intrinsic decoherence on the probability of generating a tripartite GHZ state using a cool trapped ion coupled to a single mode of the cavity field and interacting with a resonant laser field. Milburn equation is solved for this tripartite system to obtain the time evolution of density matrix as a function of cavity-ion coupling, laser-ion coupling, and the size of unitary time step relative to the time scale determined by system parameters. Starting with the system prepared initially in a separable state, density matrix is used to calculate the probability of tripartite GHZ state generation using coupling strengths reported in a recent experiment.

id: quant-ph/0411046
title: Efficient multiple-quantum transition processes in an n-qubit spin system
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 37 pages and no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411046
abstract: The whole Hilbert state space of an n-qubit spin system can be divided into (n+1) state subspaces according to the angular momentum theory of quantum mechanics. Here it is shown that any unknown state in such a state subspace, whose dimensional size is proportional to either a polynomial or exponential function of the qubit number n, can be transferred efficiently into a larger subspace with a dimensional size generally proportional to an exponential function of the qubit number by the multiple-quantum unitary transformation with a subspace-selective multiple-quantum unitary operator. The efficient quantum circuits for the subspace-selective multiple-quantum unitary operators are really constructed.

id: quant-ph/0411047
title: A decoy-state protocol for quantum cryptography with 4 intensities of coherent states
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411047
abstract: In order to beat any type of photon-number-splitting attack, we propose a protocol for quantum key distributoin (QKD) using 4 different intensities of pulses. They are vacuum and coherent states with mean photon number $\mu,\mu'$ and $\mu_s$. $\mu_s$ is around 0.55 and this class of pulses are used as the main signal states. The other two classes of coherent states ($\mu,\mu'$) are also used signal states but their counting rates should be studied jointly with the vacuum. We have shown that, given the typical set-up in practice, the key rate from the main signal pulses is quite close to the theoretically allowed maximal rate in the case given the small overall transmittance of $10^{-4}$.

id: quant-ph/0411048
title: Experimental creation of entanglement using separable state
authors: Xiaodong Yang, An Min Wang, Xiaosan Ma, Feng Xu, Hao You, Wanqing Niu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411048
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the entanglement can be created on two distant particles using separate state. We show that two data particles can share some entanglement while one ancilla particle always remains separable from them during the experimental evolution of the system. Our experiment can be viewed as a benchmark to illustrate the idea that no prior entanglement is necessary to create entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0411049
title: Quantum Phase Transition of Ground-state Entanglement in a Heisenberg Spin Chain Simulated in an NMR Quantum Computer
authors: Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du, Dieter Suter
comments: 5 pages, 5 eps figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411049
abstract: Using an NMR quantum computer, we experimentally simulate the quantum phase transition of a Heisenberg spin chain. The Hamiltonian is generated by a multiple pulse sequence, the nuclear spin system is prepared in its (pseudo-pure) ground state and the effective Hamiltonian varied in such a way that the Heisenberg chain is taken from a product state to an entangled state and finally to a different product state.

id: quant-ph/0411050
title: The Status of the Wave Function in Dynamical Collapse Models
authors: Fay Dowker, Isabelle Herbauts
comments: 35 pages, 11 figures, LaTex, corrected typos, some modifications made. to appear in Found. of Phys. Lett. Vol. 18, Nbr 6, Nov 2005, 499-518
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411050
abstract: The idea that in dynamical wave function collapse models the wave function is superfluous is investigated. Evidence is presented for the conjecture that, in a model of a field theory on a 1+1 lightcone lattice, knowing the field configuration on the lattice back to some time in the past, allows the wave function or quantum state at the present moment to be calculated, to arbitrary accuracy so long as enough of the past field configuration is known.

id: quant-ph/0411051
title: Quantum Communication Cannot Simulate a Public Coin
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Julia Kempe, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 12 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411051
abstract: We study the simultaneous message passing model of communication complexity. Building on the quantum fingerprinting protocol of Buhrman et al., Yao recently showed that a large class of efficient classical public-coin protocols can be turned into efficient quantum protocols without public coin. This raises the question whether this can be done always, i.e. whether quantum communication can always replace a public coin in the SMP model. We answer this question in the negative, exhibiting a communication problem where classical communication with public coin is exponentially more efficient than quantum communication. Together with a separation in the other direction due to Bar-Yossef et al., this shows that the quantum SMP model is incomparable with the classical public-coin SMP model. In addition we give a characterization of the power of quantum fingerprinting by means of a connection to geometrical tools from machine learning, a quadratic improvement of Yao's simulation, and a nearly tight analysis of the Hamming distance problem from Yao's paper.

id: quant-ph/0411052
title: Negative group delay for Dirac particles traveling through a potential well
authors: Xi Chen, Chun-Fang Li
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 052105 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411052
abstract: The properties of group delay for Dirac particles traveling through a potential well are investigated. A necessary condition is put forward for the group delay to be negative. It is shown that this negative group delay is closely related to its anomalous dependence on the width of the potential well. In order to demonstrate the validity of stationary-phase approach, numerical simulations are made for Gaussian-shaped temporal wave packets. A restriction to the potential-well's width is obtained that is necessary for the wave packet to remain distortionless in the travelling. Numerical comparison shows that the relativistic group delay is larger than its corresponding non-relativistic one.

id: quant-ph/0411053
title: Stochastic Collapse and Decoherence of a Non-Dissipative Forced Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: TeX; 34 pages
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 2729-2760
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411053
abstract: Careful monitoring of harmonically bound (or as a limiting case, free) masses is the basis of current and future gravitational wave detectors, and of nanomechanical devices designed to access the quantum regime. We analyze the effects of stochastic localization models for state vector reduction, and of related models for environmental decoherence, on such systems, focusing our analysis on the non-dissipative forced harmonic oscillator, and its free mass limit. We derive an explicit formula for the time evolution of the expectation of a general operator in the presence of stochastic reduction or environmentally induced decoherence, for both the non-dissipative harmonic oscillator and the free mass. In the case of the oscillator, we also give a formula for the time evolution of the matrix element of the stochastic expectation density matrix between general coherent states. We show that the stochastic expectation of the variance of a Hermitian operator in any unraveling of the stochastic process is bounded by the variance computed from the stochastic expectation of the density matrix, and we develop a formal perturbation theory for calculating expectation values of operators within any unraveling. Applying our results to current gravitational wave interferometer detectors and nanomechanical systems, we conclude that the deviations from quantum mechanics predicted by the continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) model of state vector reduction are at least five orders of magnitude below the relevant standard quantum limits for these experiments. The proposed LISA gravitational wave detector will be two orders of magnitude away from the capability of observing an effect.

id: quant-ph/0411054
title: Generation of maximally entangled states of qudits using twin photons
authors: Leonardo Neves, G. Lima, J. G. Aguirre G¨®mez, C. H. Monken, C. Saavedra, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 04 pages, 04 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411054
abstract: We report an experiment to generate maximally entangled states of D-dimensional quantum systems, qudits, by using transverse spatial correlations of two parametric down-converted photons. Apertures with D-slits in the arms of the twin fotons define the qudit space. By manipulating the pump beam correctly the twin photons will pass only by symmetrically opposite slits, generating entangled states between these differents paths. Experimental results for qudits with D=4 and D=8 are shown. We demonstrate that the generated states are entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0411055
title: Pulse retrieval and soliton formation in a non-standard scheme for dynamic electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Amy Peng, Mattias Johnsson, Joseph J. Hope
comments: 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411055
abstract: We examine in detail an alternative method of retrieving the information written into an atomic ensemble of three-level atoms using electromagnetically induced transparency. We find that the behavior of the retrieved pulse is strongly influenced by the relative collective atom-light coupling strengths of the two relevant transitions. When the collective atom-light coupling strength for the retrieval beam is the stronger of the two transitions, regeneration of the stored pulse is possible. Otherwise, we show the retrieval process can lead to creation of soliton-like pulses.

id: quant-ph/0411056
title: Coherent states of P{?}schl-Teller potential and their revival dynamics
authors: Utpal Roy, J. Banerji, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 9115 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411056
abstract: A recently developed algebraic approach for constructing coherent states for solvable potentials is used to obtain the displacement operator coherent state of the P\"{o}schl-Teller potential. We establish the connection between this and the annihilation operator coherent state and compare their properties. We study the details of the revival structure arising from different time scales underlying the quadratic energy spectrum of this system.

id: quant-ph/0411057
title: Scaling of non-Markovian Monte Carlo wave-function methods
authors: J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco, A. Messina, F. Petruccione
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. V2: Minor changes according to the referees' suggestions
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 056701 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411057
abstract: We demonstrate a scaling method for non-Markovian Monte Carlo wave-function simulations used to study open quantum systems weakly coupled to their environments. We derive a scaling equation, from which the result for the expectation values of arbitrary operators of interest can be calculated, all the quantities in the equation being easily obtainable from the scaled Monte Carlo simulations. In the optimal case, the scaling method can be used, within the weak coupling approximation, to reduce the size of the generated Monte Carlo ensemble by several orders of magnitude. Thus, the developed method allows faster simulations and makes it possible to solve the dynamics of the certain class of non-Markovian systems whose simulation would be otherwise too tedious because of the requirement for large computational resources.

id: quant-ph/0411058
title: Conditions for optimal construction of two-qubit non-local gates
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Ming-Yong Ye, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062331 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411058
abstract: Optimal implementation of quantum gates is crucial for designing a quantum computer. The necessary condition for optimal construction of a two-qubit unitary operation is obtained. It can be proved that the B gate is the unique gate that can construct a two-qubit universal circuit with only two applications, i.e. this condition is also sufficient in the case of two applications of the elementary two-qubit gate. It is also shown that one half of perfect entanglers can not simulate an arbitrary two-qubit gate with only 3 applications.

id: quant-ph/0411059
title: An atom interferometer enabled by spontaneous decay
authors: R.A. Cornelussen, R.J.C. Spreeuw, H.B. van Linden van den Heuvell
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, we clarified the semiclassical interpretation of Fig. 3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 033627 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411059
abstract: We investigate the question whether Michelson type interferometry is possible if the role of the beam splitter is played by a spontaneous process. This question arises from an inspection of trajectories of atoms bouncing inelastically from an evanescent-wave (EW) mirror. Each final velocity can be reached via two possible paths, with a {\it spontaneous} Raman transition occurring either during the ingoing or the outgoing part of the trajectory. At first sight, one might expect that the spontaneous character of the Raman transfer would destroy the coherence and thus the interference. We investigated this problem by numerically solving the Schr\"odinger equation and applying a Monte-Carlo wave-function approach. We find interference fringes in velocity space, even when random photon recoils are taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0411060
title: Proposed Differential Equation for Spin 1/2
authors: H. V. Mweene
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: H. V. Mweene, "Proc. Third Int. Workshop on Contemporary Problems in Mathematical Physics", Cotonou 2003, ed. J. Govaerts, M. N. Hounkonnou and A. Z. Msezane (World Scientific, 2004).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411060
abstract: Intimate though the connection is between orbital angular momentum and intrinsic spin, there are differences between them the two quantities. One of them is the fact that while orbital angular momentum has a wave-mechanics description by courtesy of Legendre's equation, spin lacks one. In this paper, we show that there exists a differential eigenvalue equation whose solutions are the spin-1/2 eigenvectors.

id: quant-ph/0411061
title: The Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: H. V. Mweene
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411061
abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate how the interpretation of quantum mechanics due to Land\'e resolves the Schr\"odinger cat paradox and disposes of the problem of wave function collapse.

id: quant-ph/0411062
title: Submicrometer position control of single trapped neutral atoms
authors: I. Dotsenko, W. Alt, M. Khudaverdyan, S. Kuhr, D. Meschede, Y. Miroshnychenko, D. Schrader, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 033002 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411062
abstract: We optically detect the positions of single neutral cesium atoms stored in a standing wave dipole trap with a sub-wavelength resolution of 143 nm rms. The distance between two simultaneously trapped atoms is measured with an even higher precision of 36 nm rms. We resolve the discreteness of the interatomic distances due to the 532 nm spatial period of the standing wave potential and infer the exact number of trapping potential wells separating the atoms. Finally, combining an initial position detection with a controlled transport, we place single atoms at a predetermined position along the trap axis to within 300 nm rms.

id: quant-ph/0411063
title: Continuous measurement of canonical observables and limit Stochastic Schrodinger equations
authors: John Gough, Andrei Sobolev
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A, 69, 032107 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411063
abstract: We derive the stochastic Schrodinger equation for the limit of continuous weak measurement where the observables monitored are canonical position and momentum. To this end we extend an argument due to Smolianov and Truman from the von Neumann model of indirect measurement of position to the Arthurs and Kelly model for simultaneous measurement of position and momentum. We only require unbiasedness of the detector states and an integrability condition sufficient to ensure a central limit effect. Despite taking a weak interaction, as opposed to weak measurement limit, the resulting stochastic wave equation is of the same form as that derived in a recent paper by Scott and Milburn for the specific case of joint Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0411064
title: Feynman Diagrams and the Quantum Stochastic Calculus
authors: John Gough
comments: 14 pages, multiple embedded latex pictures
journal: Banach Center Publ. 73 (2006), 187-198
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411064
abstract: We present quantum stochastic calculus in terms of diagrams taking weights in the algebra of observables of some quantum system. In particular, we note the absence of non-time-consecutive Goldstien diagrams. We review recent results in Markovian limits in these terms.

id: quant-ph/0411065
title: Quantum Walk on a Line with Two Entangled Particles
authors: Y. Omar, N. Paunkovic, L. Sheridan, S. Bose
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411065
abstract: We introduce the concept of a quantum walk with two particles and study it for the case of a discrete time walk on a line. A quantum walk with more than one particle may contain entanglement, thus offering a resource unavailable in the classical scenario and which can present interesting advantages. In this work, we show how the entanglement and the relative phase between the states describing the coin degree of freedom of each particle will influence the evolution of the quantum walk. In particular, the probability to find at least one particle in a certain position after $N$ steps of the walk, as well as the average distance between the two particles, can be larger or smaller than the case of two unentangled particles, depending on the initial conditions we choose. This resource can then be tuned according to our needs, in particular to enhance a given application (algorithmic or other) based on a quantum walk. Experimental implementations are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411066
title: Tight multipartite Bell's inequalities involving many measurement settings
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek, Marek Zukowski, Caslav Brukner
comments: published version generalizing results of quant-ph/0303187 and quant-ph/0311182
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 200401 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411066
abstract: We derive tight Bell's inequalities for N>2 observers involving more than two alternative measurement settings. We give a necessary and sufficient condition for a general quantum state to violate the new inequalities. The inequalities are violated by some classes of states, for which all standard Bell's inequalities with two measurement settings per observer are satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0411067
title: Purity-bounded uncertainty relations in multidimensional space -- generalized purity
authors: Mikalai Karelin
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. draft version, to appear in J. Phys. A Partially based on a poster "Multidimensional uncertainty relations for states with given generalized purity" presented on X Intl. Conf. on Quantum Optics'2004 (Minsk, Belarus, May 30 -- June 3, 2004) More actual report is to be presented on ICSSUR-2005, Besan\c{c}on, France and on EQEC'05, Munich. V. 5: amended article after referees' remarks
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., vol. 38, pp. 6393-6403 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411067
abstract: Uncertainty relations for mixed quantum states (precisely, purity-bounded position-momentum relations, developed by Bastiaans and then by Man'ko and Dodonov) are studied in general multi-dimensional case. An expression for family of mixed states at the lower bound of uncertainty relation is obtained. It is shown, that in case of entropy-bounded uncertainty relations, lower-bound state is thermal, and a transition from one-dimensional problem to multi-dimensional one is trivial. Results of numerical calculation of the relation lower bound for different types of generalized purity are presented. Analytical expressions for general purity-bounded relations for highly mixed states are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0411068
title: Spin-dependent forces on trapped ions for phase-stable quantum gates and motional Schrodinger-cat states
authors: P.C. Haljan, K.-A. Brickman, L. Deslauriers, P.J. Lee, C. Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411068
abstract: Favored schemes for trapped-ion quantum logic gates use bichromatic laser fields to couple internal qubit states with external motion through a "spin-dependent force." We introduce a new degree of freedom in this coupling that reduces its sensitivity to phase decoherence. We demonstrate bichromatic spin-dependent forces on a single trapped $^{111}$Cd$^+$ ion, and show that phase coherence of the resulting "Schr\"{o}dinger-cat" states of motion depends critically upon the spectral arrangement of the optical fields. This applies directly to the operation of entangling gates on multiple ions.

id: quant-ph/0411069
title: A presentation of the quantum Fourier transform from a recursive viewpoint
authors: Gloria Paradisi, Hugues Randriam
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, purely pedagogical paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411069
abstract: In this note we construct a quantum Fourier transform circuit in a recursive way, by directly copying the 'divide and conquer' construction of the fast Fourier transform algorithm, rather than using the explicit formula that is given in most introductory texts to quantum computation. We do not pretend this presentation to be original, nor claim for any anteriority. The aim of this paper is purely pedagogical.

id: quant-ph/0411070
title: The Distance Between Classical and Quantum Systems
authors: Deanna Abernethy, John R. Klauder
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411070
abstract: In a recent paper, a "distance" function, \cal D, was defined which measures the distance between pure classical and quantum systems. In this work, we present a new definition of a "distance", D, which measures the distance between either pure or impure classical and quantum states. We also compare the new distance formula with the previous formula, when the latter is applicable. To illustrate these distances, we have used 2 \times 2 matrix examples and 2-dimensional vectors for simplicity and clarity. Several specific examples are calculated.

id: quant-ph/0411071
title: Robust and parsimonious realisations of unitaries in the one-way model
authors: Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, keywords: unitary transformations, measurement-based quantum computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411071
abstract: We present a new set of generators for unitary maps over \otimes^n(C^2) which differs from the traditional rotation-based generating set in that it uses a single-parameter family of 1-qubit unitaries J(a), together with a single 2-qubit unitary controlled-Z. Each generator is implementable in the one-way model using only two qubits, and this leads to both parsimonious and robust implementations of general unitaries. As an illustration, we give an implementation of the controlled-U family which uses only 14 qubits, and has a 2-colourable underlying entanglement graph (known to yield robust entangled states).

id: quant-ph/0411072
title: Joint Probabilities of Photon polarization Correlations in $e^{+}e^{-}$ Annihilation
authors: N. Yongram, E. B. Manoukian
comments: 16 pages, PDF, misprints corrected
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 42 (2003) 1755-1764
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411072
abstract: Joint probability distributions of photon polarization correlations are computed, as well as those corresponding to the cases when only one of the photon's polarization is measured in $e^{+}e^{-}$ annihilation, in flight, in QED. This provides a dynamical, rather than a kinematical, description of photon polarization correlations as stemming from the ever precise and realistic QED theory. Such computations may be relevant to recent and future experiments involved in testing Bell-like inequalities as described.

id: quant-ph/0411073
title: Asymptotic performance of optimal state estimation in quantum two level system
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411073
abstract: We derived an asymptotic bound the accuracy of the estimation when we use the quantum correlation in the measuring apparatus. It is also proved that this bound can be achieved in any model in the quantum two-level system. Moreover, we show that this bound of such a model cannot be attained by any quantum measurement with no quantum correlation in the measuring apparatus. That is, in such a model, the quantum correlation can improve the accuracy of the estimation in an asymptotic setting.

id: quant-ph/0411074
title: Universal uncertainty principle and quantum state control under conservation laws
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 4 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing
journal: Proc. 7th Int. Conf. on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, AIP Conference Proceedings 734, 95-98 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411074
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, exemplified by the gamma ray thought experiment, suggests that any finite precision measurement disturbs any observables noncommuting with the measured observable. Here, it is shown that this statement contradicts the limit of the accuracy of measurements under conservation laws originally found by Wigner in 1950s, and should be modified to correctly derive the unavoidable noise caused by the conservation law induced decoherence. The obtained accuracy limit leads to an interesting conclusion that a widely accepted, but rather naive, physical encoding of qubits for quantum computing suffers significantly from the decoherence induced by the angular momentum conservation law.

id: quant-ph/0411075
title: Replication and Evolution of Quantum Species
authors: Arun K. Pati
comments: Latex, 12 pages, no figures
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Vol 4, No. 3 (2004) R27-R38
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411075
abstract: We dwell upon the physicist's conception of `life' since Schroedinger and Wigner through to the modern-day language of living systems in the light of quantum information. We discuss some basic features of a living system such as ordinary replication and evolution in terms of quantum bio-information. We also discuss the principle of no-culling of living replicas. We show that in a collection of identical species there can be no entanglement between one of the mutated copies and the rest of the species in a closed universe. Even though these discussions revolve around `artificial life' they may still be applicable in real biological systems under suitable conditions.

id: quant-ph/0411076
title: Exciton photon strong-coupling regime for a single quantum dot in a microcavity
authors: Emmanuelle Peter, Pascale Senellart, David Martrou, Aristide Lemaitre, Jacqueline Bloch, Julien Hours, Jean-Michel Gerard
comments: submitted on November 7th 2004
journal: Physical Review Letters 95 (2005) 067401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411076
abstract: We report on the observation of the strong coupling regime between a single GaAs quantum dot and a microdisk optical mode. Photoluminescence is performed at various temperatures to tune the quantum dot exciton with respect to the optical mode. At resonance, we observe an anticrossing, signature of the strong coupling regime with a well resolved doublet. The Vacuum Rabi splitting amounts to 400 &#956;eV and is twice as large as the individual linewidths.

id: quant-ph/0411077
title: Notes on super-operator norms induced by Schatten norms
authors: John Watrous
comments: 11 pages, accepted for publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411077
abstract: This paper considers basic properties of super-operator norms induced by Schatten p-norms. Such super-operator norms arise in various contexts in the study of quantum information. It is proved that for completely positive super-operators, the value of any such norm is achieved by a positive semidefinite input, answering a question recently posed by King and Ruskai. However, for any choice of p, there exists a super-operator that is the difference of two completely positive, trace-preserving super-operators such that the value of the super-operator norm is not even achieved on a Hermitian input operator. Also considered are the properties of the above norms for super-operators tensored with the identity super-operator.

id: quant-ph/0411078
title: Universal and deterministic manipulation of the quantum state of harmonic oscillators: a route to unitary gates for Fock State qubits
authors: Marcelo Franca Santos
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 95, 010504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411078
abstract: We present a simple quantum circuit that allows for the universal and deterministic manipulation of the quantum state of confined harmonic oscillators. The scheme is based on the selective interactions of the referred oscillator with an auxiliary three-level system and a classical external driving source, and enables any unitary operations on Fock states, two-by-two. One circuit is equivalent to a single qubit unitary logical gate on Fock states qubits. Sequences of similar protocols allow for complete, deterministic and state-independent manipulation of the harmonic oscillator quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0411079
title: Speed dependent polarization correlations in QED and entanglement
authors: E. B. Manoukian, N. Yongram
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages, 2 figures, Corrected typos
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D31:137-143,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411079
abstract: Exact computations of polarizations correlations probabilities are carried out in QED, to the leading order, for initially polarized as well as unpolarized particles. Quite generally they are found to be speed dependent and are in clear violation of Bells inequality of Local Hidden Variables (LHV) theories. This dynamical analysis shows how speed dependent entangled states are generated. These computations, based on QED are expected to lead to new experiments on polarization correlations monitoring speed in the light of Bells theorem. The paper provides a full QED treatment of the dynamics of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0411080
title: Multipartite entanglement in quantum spin chains
authors: D. Bruss, N. Datta, A. Ekert, L.C. Kwek, C. Macchiavello
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 014301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411080
abstract: We study the occurrence of multipartite entanglement in spin chains. We show that certain genuine multipartite entangled states, namely W states, can be obtained as ground states of simple XX type ferromagnetic spin chains in a transverse magnetic field, for any number of sites. Moreover, multipartite entanglement is proven to exist even at finite temperatures. A transition from a product state to a multipartite entangled state occurs when decreasing the magnetic field to a critical value. Adiabatic passage through this point can thus lead to the generation of multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0411081
title: Vectorlike representation of one-dimensional scattering
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, J. F. Carinena, A. G. Barriuso, J. J. Monzon
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. This paper is dedicated to Alberto Galindo the occasion of his seventieth birthday. Submitted for publication
journal: European Journal of Physics 26, 469 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411081
abstract: We present a self-contained discussion of the use of the transfer-matrix formalism to study one-dimensional scattering. We elaborate on the geometrical interpretation of this transfer matrix as a conformal mapping on the unit disk. By generalizing to the unit disk the idea of turns, introduced by Hamilton to represent rotations on the sphere, we develop a method to represent transfer matrices by hyperbolic turns, which can be composed by a simple parallelogramlike rule.

id: quant-ph/0411082
title: Bell-Correlated Activable Bound Entanglement in Multiqubit Systems
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Indrani Chattopadhyay, Vwani P. Roychowdhury, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062317, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411082
abstract: We show that the Hilbert space of even number ($\geq4$) of qubits can always be decomposed as a direct sum of four orthogonal subspaces such that the normalized projectors onto the subspaces are activable bound entangled (ABE) states. These states also show a surprising recursive relation in the sense that the states belonging to $2N+2$ qubits are Bell correlated to the states of $2N$ qubits; hence, we refer to these states as Bell-Correlated ABE (BCABE) states. We also study the properties of noisy BCABE states and show that they are very similar to that of two qubit Bell-diagonal states.

id: quant-ph/0411083
title: Multimode entanglement of light and atomic ensembles via off-resonant coherent forward scattering
authors: D.V. Kupriyanov, O.S. Mishina, I.M. Sokolov, B. Julsgaard, E.S.Polzik
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 71, 032348 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411083
abstract: Quantum theoretical treatment of coherent forward scattering of light in a polarized atomic ensemble with an arbitrary angular momentum is developed. We consider coherent forward scattering of a weak radiation field interacting with a realistic multi-level atomic transition. Based on the concept of an effective Hamiltonian and on the Heisenberg formalism, we discuss the coupled dynamics of the quantum fluctuations of the polarization Stokes components of propagating light and of the collective spin fluctuations of the scattering atoms. We show that in the process of coherent forward scattering this dynamics can be described in terms of a polariton-type spin wave created in the atomic sample. Our work presents a general example of entangling process in the system of collective quantum states of light and atomic angular momenta, previously considered only for the case of spin-1/2 atoms. We use the developed general formalism to test the applicability of spin-1/2 approximation for modelling the quantum non-demolishing measurement of atoms with a higher angular momentum.

id: quant-ph/0411084
title: Exact quantization of nonsolvable potentials: the role of the quantum phase beyond the semiclassical approximation
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411084
abstract: Semiclassical quantization is exact only for the so called \emph{solvable} potentials, such as the harmonic oscillator. In the \emph{nonsolvable} case the semiclassical phase, given by a series in $\hbar$, yields more or less approximate results and eventually diverges due to the asymptotic nature of the expansion. A quantum phase is derived to bypass these shortcomings. It achieves exact quantization of nonsolvable potentials and allows to obtain the quantum wavefunction while locally approaching the best pre-divergent semiclassical expansion. An iterative procedure allowing to implement practical calculations with a modest computational cost is also given. The theory is illustrated on two examples for which the limitations of the semiclassical approach were recently highlighted: cold atomic collisions and anharmonic oscillators in the nonperturbative regime.

id: quant-ph/0411085
title: A novel experimental approach for the detection of the dynamic Casimir effect
authors: C. Braggio, G. Bressi, G. Carugno, C. Del Noce, G. Galeazzi, A. Lombardi, A. Palmieri, G. Ruoso, D. Zanello
comments: Submitted to the Physical Review Letters. RevTeX. 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 70 (6), pages 754-760 15 June 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411085
abstract: The Casimir effect is a well-known macroscopic consequence of quantum vacuum fluctuations, but whereas the static effect (Casimir force) has long been observed experimentally, the dynamic Casimir effect is up to now undetected. From an experimental viewpoint a possible detection would imply the vibration of a mirror at gigahertz frequencies. Mechanical motions at such frequencies turn out to be technically unfeasible. Here we present a different experimental scheme where mechanical motions are avoided, and the results of laboratory tests showing that the scheme is practically feasible. We think that at present this approach gives the only possibility of detecting this phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0411086
title: Decoherence in a N-qubit solid-state quantum computer
authors: B. Ischi, M. Hilke, M. Dube
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 195325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411086
abstract: We investigate the decoherence process for a quantum register composed of N qubits coupled to an environment. We consider an environment composed of one common phonon bath and several electronic baths. This environment is relevant to the implementation of a charge based solid-state quantum computer. We explicitly compute the time evolution of all off-diagonal terms of the register's reduced density matrix. We find that in realistic configurations, "superdecoherence" and "decoherence free subspaces" do not exist for an N-qubit system. This means that all off-diagonal terms decay like exp(-q(t)N), where q(t) is of the same order as the decay function of a single qubit.

id: quant-ph/0411087
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency and dynamic Stark effect in coupled quantum resonators
authors: M. A. de Ponte, C. J. Villas-Boas, R. M. Serra, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 72, 383 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411087
abstract: In this work we reproduce the phenomenology of the electromagnetically induced transparency and dynamic Stark effect in a dissipative system composed by two coupled bosonic fields under linear and nonlinear amplification process. Such a system can be used as a quantum switch in networks of oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0411088
title: Many-agent controlled teleportation of multi-qubit quantum information
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Zhong-xiao Man
comments: This paper has been accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411088
abstract: We present a general idea to construct methods for multi-qubit quantum teleportation between two remote parties with control of many agents in the network. Our methods seem to be much simpler than the existing method proposed recently (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 70}, 022329(2004)). We then demonstrate our idea by using several different protocols of quantum key distribution, including Ekert 91 and the deterministic secure communication protocol raised by Deng and Long.

id: quant-ph/0411089
title: On the quantum description of Einstein's Brownian motion
authors: Francesco Petruccione, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 14 pages, latex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71 (2005) 046134
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411089
abstract: A fully quantum treatment of Einstein's Brownian motion is given, showing in particular the role played by the two original requirements of translational invariance and connection between dynamics of the Brownian particle and atomic nature of the medium. The former leads to a clearcut relationship with Holevo's result on translation-covariant quantum-dynamical semigroups, the latter to a formulation of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem in terms of the dynamic structure factor, a two-point correlation function introduced in seminal work by van Hove, directly related to density fluctuations in the medium and therefore to its atomistic, discrete nature. A microphysical expression for the generally temperature dependent friction coefficient is given in terms of the dynamic structure factor and of the interaction potential describing the single collisions. A comparison with the Caldeira Leggett model is drawn, especially in view of the requirement of translational invariance, further characterizing general structures of reduced dynamics arising in the presence of symmetry under translations.

id: quant-ph/0411090
title: Dynamics of a Raman coupled model: entanglement and quantum computation
authors: J. Larson, B. M. Garraway
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 51: 1691 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411090
abstract: The evolution of a Raman coupled three-level lambda atom with two quantized cavity modes is studied in the large detuning case; i.e. when the upper atomic level can be adiabatically eliminated. Particularly the situation when the two modes are prepared in initial coherent or squeezed states, with a large average number of photons, is investigated. It is found that the atom, after specific interaction times, disentangles from the two modes, leaving them, in certain cases, in entangled Schrodinger cat states. These disentanglement times can be controlled by adjusting the ratio between average numbers of photons in the two modes. It is also shown how this effective model may be used for implementing quantum information processing. Especially it is demonstrated how to generate various entangled states, such as EPR- and GHZ-states, and quantum logic operations, such as the control-not and the phase-gate.

id: quant-ph/0411091
title: On entropic quantities related to the classical capacity of infinite dimensional quantum channels
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 25 pages
journal: Theory of Probability and its Applications, Vol. 52, No. 2, (2007), 250-276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411091
abstract: In this paper we consider the $\chi$-function (the Holevo capacity of constrained channel) and the convex closure of the output entropy for arbitrary infinite dimensional channel. It is shown that the $\chi$-function of an arbitrary channel is a concave lower semicontinuous function on the whole state space, having continuous restriction to any set of continuity of the output entropy. The explicit representation for the convex closure of the output entropy is obtained and its properties are explored. It is shown that the convex closure of the output entropy coincides with the convex hull of the output entropy on the convex set of states with finite output entropy. Similarly to the case of the $\chi$-function, it is proved that the convex closure of the output entropy has continuous restriction to any set of continuity of output entropy. Some applications of these results to the theory of entanglement are discussed. The obtained properties of the convex closure of the output entropy make it possible to generalize to the infinite dimensional case the convex duality approach to the additivity problem.

id: quant-ph/0411092
title: Secrecy content of two-qubit states
authors: A. Ac¨ªn, J. Bae, E. Bagan, M. Baig, Ll. Masanes, R. Mu?oz-Tapia
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012327 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411092
abstract: We analyze the set of two-qubit states from which a secret key can be extracted by single-copy measurements plus classical processing of the outcomes. We introduce a key distillation protocol and give the corresponding necessary and sufficient condition for positive key extraction. Our results imply that the critical error rate derived by Chau, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 66}, 060302 (2002), for a secure key distribution using the six-state scheme is tight. Remarkably, an optimal eavesdropping attack against this protocol does not require any coherent quantum operation.

id: quant-ph/0411093
title: Optimal Experiment Design for Quantum State and Process Tomography and Hamiltonian Parameter Estimation
authors: Robert Kosut, Ian A. Walmsley, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 51 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411093
abstract: A number of problems in quantum state and system identification are addressed. Specifically, it is shown that the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) approach, already known to apply to quantum state tomography, is also applicable to quantum process tomography (estimating the Kraus operator sum representation (OSR)), Hamiltonian parameter estimation, and the related problems of state and process (OSR) distribution estimation. Except for Hamiltonian parameter estimation, the other MLE problems are formally of the same type of convex optimization problem and therefore can be solved very efficiently to within any desired accuracy. Associated with each of these estimation problems, and the focus of the paper, is an optimal experiment design (OED) problem invoked by the Cramer-Rao Inequality: find the number of experiments to be performed in a particular system configuration to maximize estimation accuracy; a configuration being any number of combinations of sample times, hardware settings, prepared initial states, etc. We show that in all of the estimation problems, including Hamiltonian parameter estimation, the optimal experiment design can be obtained by solving a convex optimization problem. Software to solve the MLE and OED convex optimization problems is available upon request from the first author.

id: quant-ph/0411094
title: The Construction of the Dual Family of Gazeau-Klauder Coherent States via Temporally Stable Nonlinear Coherent States
authors: R. Roknizadeh, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 31 pages, Revtex
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 042110 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411094
abstract: Using the {\it analytic representation} of the so-called Gazeau-Klauder coherent states(CSs), we shall demonstrate that how a new class of generalized CSs namely the {\it family of dual states} associated with theses states can be constructed through viewing these states as {\it temporally stable nonlinear CSs}. Also we find that the ladder operators, as well as the displacement type operator corresponding to these two pairs of generalized CSs, may be easily obtained using our formalism, without employing the {\it supersymmetric quantum mechanics}(SUSYQM) techniques. Then, we have applied this method to some physical systems with known spectrum, such as P\"{o}schl-Teller, infinite well, Morse potential and Hydrogen-like spectrum as some quantum mechanical systems. Finally, we propose the generalized form of Gazeau-Klauder CS and the corresponding dual family.

id: quant-ph/0411095
title: Non-decomposable quantum dynamical semigroups and bound entangled states
authors: Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Marco Piani
comments: 15 pages, to appear on "Open systems & information dynamics", OSID style
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn.11, 325-338 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411095
abstract: We use open quantum system techniques to construct one-parameter semigroups of positive maps and apply them to study the entanglement properties of a class of 16-dimensional density matrices, representing states of a 4x4 bipartite system.

id: quant-ph/0411096
title: The Unruh effect in an Ion Trap: An Analogy
authors: P.M. Alsing, J.P. Dowling, G.J. Milburn
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, .pdf
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411096
abstract: We propose an experiment in which the phonon excitation of ion(s) in a trap, with a trap frequency exponentially modulated at rate $\kappa$, exhibits a thermal spectrum with an "Unruh" temperature given by T=hbar*kappa. We discuss the similarities of this experiment to the usual Unruh effect for quantum fields and uniformly accelerated detectors. We demonstrate a new Unruh effect for detectors that respond to anti-normally ordered moments using the ion's first blue sideband transition.

id: quant-ph/0411097
title: Quantum Fast Fourier Transform Viewed as a Special Case of Recursive Application of Cosine-Sine Decomposition
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 14 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 5 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411097
abstract: A quantum compiler is a software program for decomposing ("compiling") an arbitrary unitary matrix into a sequence of elementary operations (SEO). Coppersmith showed that the $\nb$-bit Discrete Fourier Transform matrix $U_{FT}$ can be decomposed in a very efficient way, as a sequence of order($\nb^2$) elementary operations. Can a quantum compiler that doesn't know a priori about Coppersmith's decomposition nevertheless decompose $U_{FT}$ as a sequence of order($\nb^2$) elementary operations? In other words, can it rediscover Coppersmith's decomposition by following a much more general algorithm? Yes it can, if that more general algorithm is the recursive application of the Cosine-Sine Decomposition (CSD).

id: quant-ph/0411098
title: A class of 2^N x 2^N bound entangled states revealed by non-decomposable maps
authors: Marco Piani
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012345 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411098
abstract: We use some general results regarding positive maps to exhibit examples of non-decomposable maps and 2^N x 2^N, N >= 2, bound entangled states, e.g. non distillable bipartite states of N + N qubits.

id: quant-ph/0411099
title: Efficient decoupling and recoupling in solid state NMR for quantum computation
authors: Fumiko Yamaguchi, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Cyrus P. Master, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Navin Khaneja
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411099
abstract: A scheme for decoupling and selectively recoupling large networks of dipolar-coupled spins is proposed. The scheme relies on a combination of broadband, decoupling pulse sequences applied to all the nuclear spins with a band-selective pulse sequence for single spin rotations or recoupling. The evolution-time overhead required for selective coupling is independent of the number of spins, subject to time-scale constraints, for which we discuss the feasibility. This scheme may improve the scalability of solid-state-NMR quantum computing architectures.

id: quant-ph/0411100
title: Electric circuit networks equivalent to chaotic quantum billiards
authors: Evgeny N. Bulgakov, Dmitrii N. Maksimov, Almas F. Sadreev
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411100
abstract: We formulate two types of electric RLC resonance network equivalent to quantum billiards. In the network of inductors grounded by capacitors squared resonant frequencies are eigenvalues of the quantum billiard. In the network of capacitors grounded by inductors squared resonant frequencies are given by inverse eigen values of the billiard. In both cases local voltages play role of the wave function of the quantum billiard. However as different from quantum billiards there is a heat power because of resistance of the inductors. In the equivalent chaotic billiards we derive the distribution of the heat power which well describes numerical statistics.

id: quant-ph/0411101
title: Pulse Control of Decoherence in a Qubit Coupled with a Quantum Environment
authors: Takahiro Murakami, Yositake Takane
comments: 5 pages, 2figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 74(2005) Suppl. 265
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411101
abstract: We study the time evolution of a qubit linearly coupled with a quantum environment under a sequence of short pi pulses. Our attention is focused on the case where qubit-environment interactions induce the decoherence with population decay. We assume that the environment consists of a set of bosonic excitations. The time evolution of the reduced density matrix for the qubit is calculated in the presence of periodic short pi pulses. We confirm that the decoherence is suppressed if the pulse interval is shorter than the correlation time for qubit-environment interactions.

id: quant-ph/0411102
title: Electrode Configurations for Fast Separation of Trapped Ions
authors: J. P. Home, A. M. Steane
comments: 37 pages, 19 figures. New version clarified, conclusions updated, and new sections on micromotion, example trap, manufacturing imprecision, plus some further general information
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 6, No 4&5 (2006) 289-325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411102
abstract: We study the problem of designing electrode structures that allow pairs of ions to be brought together and separated rapidly in an array of linear Paul traps. We show that it is desirable for the electrode structure to produce a d.c. octupole moment with an a.c. radial quadrupole. For the case where electrical breakdown limits the voltages that can be applied, we show that the octupole is more demanding than the quadrupole when the characteristic distance scale of the structure is larger than 1 to 10 microns (for typical materials). We present a variety of approaches and optimizations of structures consisting of one to three layers of electrodes. The three-layer structures allow the fastest operation at given distance r from the trap centres to the nearest electrode surface, but when the total thickness w of the structure is constrained, leading to w < r, then two-layer structures may be preferable.

id: quant-ph/0411103
title: Coherent control of trapped ions using off-resonant lasers
authors: J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, P. Zoller, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062309 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411103
abstract: In this paper we develop a unified framework to study the coherent control of trapped ions subject to state-dependent forces. Taking different limits in our theory, we can reproduce two different designs of a two-qubit quantum gate --the pushing gate [1] and the fast gates based on laser pulses from Ref. [2]--, and propose a new design based on continuous laser beams. We demonstrate how to simulate Ising Hamiltonians in a many ions setup, and how to create highly entangled states and induce squeezing. Finally, in a detailed analysis we identify the physical limits of this technique and study the dependence of errors on the temperature. [1] J.I. Cirac, P. Zoller, Nature, 404, 579, 2000. [2] J.J. Garcia-Ripoll, P. Zoller, J.I. Cirac, PRL 67, 062318, 2003

id: quant-ph/0411104
title: Global control and fast solid-state donor electron spin quantum computing
authors: Charles D. Hill, L. C. L. Hollenberg, A. G. Fowler, C. J. Wellard, A. D. Greentree, H.-S. Goan
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review B 72, 045350 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411104
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum information processing based on donor electron spins in semiconductors, with an architecture complementary to the original Kane proposal. We show that a naive implementation of electron spin qubits provides only modest improvement over the Kane scheme, however through the introduction of global gate control we are able to take full advantage of the fast electron evolution timescales. We estimate that the latent clock speed is 100-1000 times that of the nuclear spin quantum computer with the ratio $T_{2}/T_{ops}$ approaching the $10^{6}$ level.

id: quant-ph/0411105
title: Optimal copying of entangled two-qubit states
authors: J. Novotny, G. Alber, I. Jex
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411105
abstract: We investigate the problem of copying pure two-qubit states of a given degree of entanglement in an optimal way. Completely positive covariant quantum operations are constructed which maximize the fidelity of the output states with respect to two separable copies. These optimal copying processes hint at the intricate relationship between fundamental laws of quantum theory and entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0411106
title: Hertz potentials approach to the dynamical Casimir effect in cylindrical cavities of arbitrary section
authors: Martin Crocce, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411106
abstract: We study the creation of photons in resonant cylindrical cavities with time dependent length. The physical degrees of freedom of the electromagnetic field are described using Hertz potentials. We describe the general formalism for cavities with arbitrary section. Then we compute explicitly the number of TE and TM motion-induced photons for cylindrical cavities with rectangular and circular sections. We also discuss the creation of TEM photons in non-simply connected cylindrical cavities.

id: quant-ph/0411107
title: Framework for quantum modeling of fiber-optical networks: PART I
authors: John M. Myers
comments: (Rev. 0.2.5) 42 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4 format. Introduction revised; 3 new subsections (D, E, F) added to Sec. 2. References expanded (see Part II). Part I consists of Secs. 1 through 9. Part II (quant-ph/0411108) consists of Sec. 10, Appendices A through F, and References
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411107
abstract: We formulate quantum optics to include frequency dependence in the modeling of optical networks. Entangled light pulses available for quantum cryptography are entangled not only in polarization but also, whether one wants it or not, in frequency. We model effects of the frequency spectrum of faint polarization-entangled light pulses on detection statistics. For instance, we show how polarization entanglement combines with frequency entanglement in the variation of detection statistics with pulse energy. Attention is paid not only to single-photon light states but also to multi-photon states. These are needed (1) to analyze the dependence of statistics on energy and (2) to help in calibrating fiber couplers, lasers and other devices, even when their desired use is for the generation of single-photon light.

id: quant-ph/0411108
title: Framework for quantum modeling of fiber-optical networks: PART II
authors: John M. Myers
comments: (Rev. 0.2.5) 56 pages, 3 figures, Revtex4 format. References expanded, due to revisions in Secs. 1 and 2 of Part I (quant-ph/0411107). MATLAB programs in Appendix F are now in RexTeX4 in this file, not a separate PDF file. Part I contains Secs. 1 through 9; Part II contains Sec. 10, Appendices A through F, and References
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411108
abstract: We formulate quantum optics to include frequency dependence in the modeling of optical networks. Entangled light pulses available for quantum cryptography are entangled not only in polarization but also, whether one wants it or not, in frequency. We model effects of the frequency spectrum of faint polarization-entangled light pulses on detection statistics. For instance, we show how polarization entanglement combines with frequency entanglement in the variation of detection statistics with pulse energy. Attention is paid not only to single-photon light states but also to multi-photon states. These are needed (1) to analyze the dependence of statistics on energy and (2) to help in calibrating fiber couplers, lasers and other devices, even when their desired use is for the generation of single-photon light.

id: quant-ph/0411109
title: Unitarily localizable entanglement of Gaussian states
authors: Alessio Serafini, Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032349 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411109
abstract: We consider generic $m\times n$-mode bipartitions of continuous variable systems, and study the associated bisymmetric multimode Gaussian states. They are defined as $(m+n)$-mode Gaussian states invariant under local mode permutations on the $m$-mode and $n$-mode subsystems. We prove that such states are equivalent, under local unitary transformations, to the tensor product of a two-mode state and of $m+n-2$ uncorrelated single-mode states. The entanglement between the $m$-mode and the $n$-mode blocks can then be completely concentrated on a single pair of modes by means of local unitary operations alone. This result allows to prove that the PPT (positivity of the partial transpose) condition is necessary and sufficient for the separability of $(m + n)$-mode bisymmetric Gaussian states. We determine exactly their negativity and identify a subset of bisymmetric states whose multimode entanglement of formation can be computed analytically. We consider explicit examples of pure and mixed bisymmetric states and study their entanglement scaling with the number of modes.

id: quant-ph/0411110
title: Distinguishing Bipartitite Orthogonal States using LOCC: Best and Worst Cases
authors: Michael Nathanson
comments: 22 pages, published version. Some proofs rewritten for clarity
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 062103 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411110
abstract: Two types of results are presented for distinguishing pure bipartite quantum states using Local Operations and Classical Communications. We examine sets of states that can be perfectly distinguished, in particular showing that any three orthogonal maximally entangled states in C^3 tensor C^3 form such a set. In cases where orthogonal states cannot be distinguished, we obtain upper bounds for the probability of error using LOCC taken over all sets of k orthogonal states in C^n tensor C^m. In the process of proving these bounds, we identify some sets of orthogonal states for which perfect distinguishability is not possible.

id: quant-ph/0411111
title: Threshold Error Penalty for Fault Tolerant Computation with Nearest Neighbour Communication
authors: T. Szkopek, P.O. Boykin, H. Fan, V. Roychowdhury, E. Yablonovitch, G. Simms, M. Gyure, B. Fong
comments: minor correction
journal: IEEE Trans. Nano., Vol. 5, No. 1, pp 42-49, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411111
abstract: The error threshold for fault tolerant quantum computation with concatenated encoding of qubits is penalized by internal communication overhead. Many quantum computation proposals rely on nearest-neighbour communication, which requires excess gate operations. For a qubit stripe with a width of L+1 physical qubits implementing L levels of concatenation, we find that the error threshold of 2.1x10^-5 without any communication burden is reduced to 1.2x10^-7 when gate errors are the dominant source of error. This ~175X penalty in error threshold translates to an ~13X penalty in the amplitude and timing of gate operation control pulses.

id: quant-ph/0411112
title: Optimal population transfers in a quantum system for large transfer time
authors: Symeon Grivopoulos, Bassam Bamieh
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Transactions on Automatic Control
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411112
abstract: Transferring the state of a quantum system to a given distribution of populations is an important problem with applications to Quantum Chemistry and Atomic Physics. In this work we consider exact population transfers that minimize the L^2 norm of the control which is typically the amplitude of an electromagnetic field. This problem is analytically and numerically challenging. Except for few exactly solvable cases, there is no general understanding of the nature of optimal controls and trajectories. We find that by examining the limit of large transfer times, we can uncover such general properties. In particular, for transfer times large with respect to the time scale of the free dynamics of the quantum system, the optimal control is a sum of components, each being a Bohr frequency sinusoid modulated by a slow amplitude, i.e. a profile that changes considerably only on the scale of the transfer time. Moreover, we show that the optimal trajectory follows a "mean'' evolution modulated by the fast free dynamics of the system. The calculation of the "mean'' optimal trajectory and the slow control profiles is done via an "averaged'' two-point boundary value problem which we derive and which is much easier to solve than the one expressing the necessary conditions for optimality of the original optimal transfer problem.

id: quant-ph/0411113
title: Analyses of reflection and transmission at moving potential step
authors: Toshiharu Samura, Masato Ohmukai
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411113
abstract: The reflection and transmission of wave functions at a potential step is a well-known issue in a textbook of quantum mechanics. We studied the reflection and transmission characteristics analytically when the potential step is moving at a constant velocity $v$ in the same direction as an incident wave function by means of solving the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation. As for an infinite potential step, it is known that group velocity is the same as the moving velocity of the potential step. We found two interesting results when the potential step has a finite height of $V_0$. The transmission occurs when the kinetic energy of incident wave function is larger than the effective potential hight of $(\sqrt{\frac{m}{2}}v + \sqrt{V_0})^2$. The other result is that the reflectivity depends on $x$, which derives from the interference between the incident and the reflected wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0411114
title: Non-deterministic approximation of photon number discriminating detectors using non-discriminating detectors
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures (published version)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 82-86, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411114
abstract: We present a scheme for non-deterministically approximating photon number resolving detectors using non-discriminating detectors. The model is simple in construction and employs very few physical resources. Despite its non-determinism, the proposal may nonetheless be suitable for use in some quantum optics experiments in which non-determinism can be tolerated. We analyze the detection scheme in the context of an optical implementation of the controlled-NOT gate, an inherently non-deterministic device. This allows the gate's success probability to be traded away for improved gate fidelity, assuming high efficiency detectors. The scheme is compared to two other proposals, both deterministic, for approximating discriminating detectors using non-discriminating detectors: the cascade and time division multiplexing schemes.

id: quant-ph/0411115
title: Local unitary versus local Clifford equivalence of stabilizer states
authors: M. Van den Nest, J. Dehaene, B. De Moor
comments: 8 pages, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062323 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411115
abstract: We study the relation between local unitary (LU) equivalence and local Clifford (LC) equivalence of stabilizer states. We introduce a large subclass of stabilizer states, such that every two LU equivalent states in this class are necessarily LC equivalent. Together with earlier results, this shows that LC, LU and SLOCC equivalence are the same notions for this class of stabilizer states. Moreover, recognizing whether two given stabilizer states in the present subclass are locally equivalent only requires a polynomial number of operations in the number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0411116
title: Optimizing stochastic trajectories in exact quantum jump approaches of interacting systems
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, revised version
journal: Phys.Rev.A72:013805,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411116
abstract: The quantum jump approach, where pairs of state vectors follow Stochastic Schroedinger Equation (SSE) in order to treat the exact quantum dynamics of two interacting systems, is first described. In this work the non-uniqueness of such stochastic Schroedinger equations is investigated to propose strategies to optimize the stochastic paths and reduce statistical fluctuations. In the proposed method, called the 'adaptative noise method', a specific SSE is obtained for which the noise depends explicitly on both the initial state and on the properties of the interaction Hamiltonian. It is also shown that this method can be further improved by introduction of a mean-field dynamics. The different optimization procedures are illustrated quantitatively in the case of interacting spins. A significant reduction of the statistical fluctuations is obtained. Consequently a much smaller number of trajectories is needed to accurately reproduce the exact dynamics as compared to the SSE without optimization.

id: quant-ph/0411117
title: Semiclassical Propagation of Wavepackets with Real and Complex Trajectories
authors: M. A. M. de Aguiar, M. Baranger, L. Jaubert, Fernando Parisio, A.D. Ribeiro
comments: revised text, 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A38 (2005) 4645
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411117
abstract: We consider a semiclassical approximation for the time evolution of an originally gaussian wave packet in terms of complex trajectories. We also derive additional approximations replacing the complex trajectories by real ones. These yield three different semiclassical formulae involving different real trajectories. One of these formulae is Heller's thawed gaussian approximation. The other approximations are non-gaussian and may involve several trajectories determined by mixed initial-final conditions. These different formulae are tested for the cases of scattering by a hard wall, scattering by an attractive gaussian potential, and bound motion in a quartic oscillator. The formula with complex trajectories gives good results in all cases. The non-gaussian approximations with real trajectories work well in some cases, whereas the thawed gaussian works only in very simple situations.

id: quant-ph/0411118
title: Talbot-Lau interferometry with fullerenes: Sensitivity to inertial forces and vibrational dephasing
authors: A. Stibor, K. Hornberger, L. Hackermueller, A. Zeilinger, M. Arndt
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. (To be published in Laser Physics)
journal: Laser Physics 15, 10-17 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411118
abstract: We discuss matter wave experiments in a near-field interferometer and focus on dephasing phenomena due to inertial forces. Their presence may result in a significant reduction of the observed interference contrast, even though they do not lead to genuine decoherence. We provide quantitative estimates for the most important effects and demonstrate experimentally the strong influence of acoustic vibrations. Since the effects of inertial forces get increasingly important for the interferometry with more massive particles they have to be identified and compensated in future experiments.

id: quant-ph/0411119
title: Conditions for strictly purity-decreasing quantum Markovian dynamics
authors: D.A. Lidar, A. Shabani, R. Alicki
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Contribution to the special issue "Real-time dynamics in complex quantum systems" of Chemical Physics in honor of Phil Pechukas. v2: Simplified proof of theorem 1 and validity conditions clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411119
abstract: The purity, Tr(rho^2), measures how pure or mixed a quantum state rho is. It is well known that quantum dynamical semigroups that preserve the identity operator (which we refer to as unital) are strictly purity-decreasing transformations. Here we provide an almost complete characterization of the class of strictly purity-decreasing quantum dynamical semigroups. We show that in the case of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces a dynamical semigroup is strictly purity-decreasing if and only if it is unital, while in the infinite dimensional case, unitality is only sufficient.

id: quant-ph/0411120
title: Adiabatic Quantum State Manipulation of Single Trapped Atoms
authors: M. Khudaverdyan, W. Alt, I. Dotsenko, L. F?rster, S. Kuhr, D. Meschede, Y. Miroshnychenko, D. Schrader, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411120
abstract: We use microwave induced adiabatic passages for selective spin flips within a string of optically trapped individual neutral Cs atoms. We position-dependently shift the atomic transition frequency with a magnetic field gradient. To flip the spin of a selected atom, we optically measure its position and sweep the microwave frequency across its respective resonance frequency. We analyze the addressing resolution and the experimental robustness of this scheme. Furthermore, we show that adiabatic spin flips can also be induced with a fixed microwave frequency by deterministically transporting the atoms across the position of resonance.

id: quant-ph/0411121
title: Excited Field of Particle in Quantum Theory
authors: Gang Zhao
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411121
abstract: A model about excited field of a particle is discussed. We found this model will give wave-particle duality clearly and its Lagrangian is consistent with Quantum Theory. A new interpretation of quantum mechanics but not statistical interpretation[1] is presented.

id: quant-ph/0411122
title: Encoding a logical qubit into physical qubits
authors: B. Zeng, D. L. Zhou, Z. Xu, C. P. Sun, L. You
comments: to be published, corrected confusing terminology in the title and text. Thanks to Dr. E. Knill
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411122
abstract: We propose two protocols to encode a logical qubit into physical qubits relying on common types of qubit-qubit interactions in as simple forms as possible. We comment on its experimental implementation in several quantum computing architectures, e.g. with trapped atomic ion qubits, atomic qubits inside a high Q optical cavity, solid state Josephson junction qubits, and Bose-Einstein condensed atoms.

id: quant-ph/0411123
title: Localizable Entanglement
authors: M. Popp, F. Verstraete, M. A. Martin-Delgado, J. I. Cirac
comments: 19 pages, modified definition of connected string order parameter, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411123
abstract: We consider systems of interacting spins and study the entanglement that can be localized, on average, between two separated spins by performing local measurements on the remaining spins. This concept of Localizable Entanglement (LE) leads naturally to notions like entanglement length and entanglement fluctuations. For both spin-1/2 and spin-1 systems we prove that the LE of a pure quantum state can be lower bounded by connected correlation functions. We further propose a scheme, based on matrix-product states and the Monte Carlo method, to efficiently calculate the LE for quantum states of a large number of spins. The virtues of LE are illustrated for various spin models. In particular, characteristic features of a quantum phase transition such as a diverging entanglement length can be observed. We also give examples for pure quantum states exhibiting a diverging entanglement length but finite correlation length. We have numerical evidence that the ground state of the antiferromagnetic spin-1 Heisenberg chain can serve as a perfect quantum channel. Furthermore, we apply the numerical method to mixed states and study the entanglement as a function of temperature.

id: quant-ph/0411124
title: Solution of a Hamiltonian of quantum dots with Rashba spin-orbit coupling: quasi-exact solution
authors: Hayriye Tutunculer, Ramazan Koc, Eser Olgar
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.37 2004 11431-11438
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411124
abstract: We present a method to solve the problem of Rashba spin-orbit coupling in semiconductor quantum dots, within the context of quasi-exactly solvable spectral problems. We show that the problem possesses a hidden osp(2,2) superalgebra. We constructed a general matrix whose determinant provide exact eigenvalues. Analogous mathematical structures between the Rashba and some of the other spin-boson physical systems are notified.

id: quant-ph/0411125
title: Universality in the entanglement structure of ferromagnets
authors: J. S. Pratt
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 237205 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411125
abstract: Systems of exchange-coupled spins are commonly used to model ferromagnets. The quantum correlations in such magnets are studied using tools from quantum information theory. Isotropic ferromagnets are shown to possess a universal low-temperature density matrix which precludes entanglement between spins, and the mechanism of entanglement cancellation is investigated, revealing a core of states resistant to pairwise entanglement cancellation. Numerical studies of one-, two-, and three-dimensional lattices as well as irregular geometries showed no entanglement in ferromagnets at any temperature or magnetic field strength.

id: quant-ph/0411126
title: Vacuum induced Stark shifts for quantum logic using a collective system in a high quality dispersive cavity
authors: A. Gabris, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411126
abstract: A collective system of atoms in a high quality cavity can be described by a nonlinear interaction which arises due to the Lamb shift of the energy levels due to the cavity vacuum [Agarwal et al., Phys. Rev. A 56, 2249 (1997)]. We show how this collective interaction can be used to perform quantum logic. In particular we produce schemes to realize CNOT gates not only for two-qubit but also for three-qubit systems. We also discuss realizations of Toffoli gates. Our effective Hamiltonian is also realized in other systems such as trapped ions or magnetic molecules.

id: quant-ph/0411127
title: Concurrence of mixed multi-partite quantum states
authors: Florian Mintert, Marek Kus, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: PRL 95, 260502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411127
abstract: We propose generalizations of concurrence for multi-partite quantum systems that can distinguish qualitatively distinct quantum correlations. All introduced quantities can be evaluated efficiently for arbitrary mixed sates.

id: quant-ph/0411128
title: Entanglement Assisted Metrology
authors: Paola Cappellaro, Joseph Emerson, Nicolas Boulant, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Seth Lloyd, David G. Cory
comments: 4 pages, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 020502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411128
abstract: We propose a new approach to the measurement of a single spin state, based on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques and inspired by the coherent control over many-body systems envisaged by Quantum Information Processing (QIP). A single target spin is coupled via the natural magnetic dipolar interaction to a large ensemble of spins. Applying external radio frequency (rf) pulses, we can control the evolution of the system so that the spin ensemble reaches one of two orthogonal states whose collective properties differ depending on the state of the target spin and are easily measured. We first describe this measurement process using QIP gates; then we show how equivalent schemes can be defined in terms of the Hamiltonian of the spin system and thus implemented under conditions of real control, using well established NMR techniques. We demonstrate this method with a proof of principle experiment in ensemble liquid state NMR and simulations for small spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0411129
title: Drastic effects of damping mechanisms on the third-order optical nonlinearity
authors: Kazuki Koshino, Hajime Ishihara
comments: 5pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411129
abstract: We have investigated the optical response of superradiant atoms, which undergoes three different damping mechanisms: radiative dissipation ($\gamma_r$), dephasing ($\gamma_d$), and nonradiative dissipation ($\gamma_n$). Whereas the roles of $\gamma_d$ and $\gamma_n$ are equivalent in the linear susceptibility, the third-order nonlinear susceptibility drastically depends on the ratio of $\gamma_d$ and $\gamma_n$: When $\gamma_d \ll \gamma_n$, the third-order susceptibility is essentially that of a single atom. Contrarily, in the opposite case of $\gamma_d \gg \gamma_n$, the third-order susceptibility suffers the size-enhancement effect and becomes proportional to the system size.

id: quant-ph/0411130
title: Concurrence of quasi pure quantum states
authors: Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411130
abstract: We derive an analytic approximation for the concurrence of weakly mixed bipartite quantum states - typical objects in state of the art experiments. This approximation is shown to be a lower bound of the concurrence of arbitrary states.

id: quant-ph/0411131
title: Field intensity distributions and polarization orientations in a vacuum-clad subwavelength-diameter optical fiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, J. Q. Liang, K. Hakuta, V. I. Balykin
comments: Opt. Commun. (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411131
abstract: We study the properties of the field in the fundamental mode HE$_{11}$ of a vacuum-clad \textit{subwavelength-diameter} optical fiber using the exact solutions of Maxwell's equations. We obtain simple analytical expressions for the total intensity of the electric field. We discuss the origin of the deviations of the exact fundamental mode HE$_{11}$ from the approximate mode LP$_{01}$. We show that the thin thickness of the fiber and the high contrast between the refractive indices of the silica core and the vacuum clad substantially modify the intensity distributions and the polarization properties of the field and its components, especially in the vicinity of the fiber surface. One of the promising applications of the field around the subwavelength-diameter fiber is trapping and guiding of atoms by the optical force of the evanescent field.

id: quant-ph/0411132
title: Coherently manipulating two-qubit quantum information using a pair of simultaneous laser pulses
authors: L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett., 65(1), 1 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411132
abstract: Several sequential operations are usually needed for implementing controlled quantum gates and generating entanglement between a pair of quantum bits. Based on the conditional quantum dynamics for a two-ion system beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit, here we propose a theoretical scheme for manipulating two-qubit quantum information, i.e., implementing a universal two-qubit quantum gate and generating a two-qubit entangled state, by using a pair of simultaneous laser pulses. Neither the Lamb-Dicke approximation nor the auxiliary atomic level are required. The experimental realizability of this simple approach is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411133
title: Optimal phase estimation for qubit mixed states
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello, Paolo Perinotti
comments: revised version accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 042327 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411133
abstract: We address the problem of optimal estimation of the relative phase for two-dimensional quantum systems in mixed states. In particular, we derive the optimal measurement procedures for an arbitrary number of qubits prepared in the same mixed state.

id: quant-ph/0411134
title: An efficient single-step scheme for manipulating quantum information of two trapped ions beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages with 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 320 (2003) 131
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411134
abstract: Based on the exact conditional quantum dynamics for a two-ion system, we propose an efficient {\it single-step} scheme for coherently manipulating quantum information of two trapped cold ions by using a pair of synchronous laser pulses. Neither the auxiliary atomic level nor the Lamb-Dicke approximation are needed.

id: quant-ph/0411135
title: Realization of POVMs using measurement-assisted programmable quantum processors
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A 72, 022343 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411135
abstract: We study possible realizations of generalized quantum measurements on measurement-assisted programmable quantum processors. We focus our attention on the realization of von Neumann measurements and informationally complete POVMs. It is known that two unitary transformations implementable by the same programmable processor require mutually {\it orthogonal} states. It turns out that the situation with von Neumann measurements is different. Specifically, in order to realize two such measurements one does not have to use orthogonal program states. On the other hand, the number of the implementable von Neumann measurements is still limited. As an example of a programmable processor we use the so-called quantum information distributor.

id: quant-ph/0411136
title: Notes on coarse grainings and functions of observables
authors: A. Dvurecenskij, P. Lahti, S. Pulmannova, K. Ylinen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411136
abstract: Using the Naimark dilation theory we investigate the question under what conditions an observable which is a coarse graining of another observable is a function of it. To this end, conditions for the separability and for the Boolean structure of an observable are given.

id: quant-ph/0411137
title: PT-Symmetric Cubic Anharmonic Oscillator as a Physical Model
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, Erratum to published version added
journal: J.Phys.A38:6557-6570,2005; Erratum-ibid.A38:8185,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411137
abstract: We perform a perturbative calculation of the physical observables, in particular pseudo-Hermitian position and momentum operators, the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian operator, and the classical Hamiltonian for the PT-symmetric cubic anharmonic oscillator, $ H=p^1/(2m)+\mu^2x^2/2+i\epsilon x^3 $. Ignoring terms of order $ \epsilon^4 $ and higher, we show that this system describes an ordinary quartic anharmonic oscillator with a position-dependent mass and real and positive coupling constants. This observation elucidates the classical origin of the reality and positivity of the energy spectrum. We also discuss the quantum-classical correspondence for this PT-symmetric system, compute the associated conserved probability density, and comment on the issue of factor-ordering in the pseudo-Hermitian canonical quantization of the underlying classical system.

id: quant-ph/0411138
title: Bath Assisted Cooling of Spins
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, R. Serral Gracia, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 4 pages. Accepted in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411138
abstract: A suitable sequence of sharp pulses applied to a spin coupled to a bosonic bath can cool its state, i.e., increase its polarization or ground state occupation probability. Starting from an unpolarized state of the spin in equilibrium with the bath, one can reach very low temperatures or sizeable polarizations within a time shorter than the decoherence time. Both the bath and external fields are necessary for the effect which comes from the backreaction of the spin on the bath. This method can be applied to cool at once a disordered ensemble of spins. Since the bath is crucial for this mechanism, the cooling limits are set by the strength of its interaction with the spin(s).

id: quant-ph/0411139
title: Engineering Schr?dinger cat states through cavity-assisted interaction of coherent optical pulses
authors: B. Wang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages with 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411139
abstract: We propose a scheme to engineer Schr\"{o}dinger-cat states of propagating optical pulses. Multi-dimensional and multi-partite cat states can be generated simply by reflecting coherent optical pulses successively from a single-atom cavity. The influences of various sources of noise, including the atomic spontaneous emission and the pulse shape distortion, are characterized through detailed numerical simulation, which demonstrates practicality of this scheme within the reach of current experimental technology.

id: quant-ph/0411140
title: Improved Bounds on Quantum Learning Algorithms
authors: Alp Atici, Rocco A. Servedio
comments: Minor corrections. 18 pages. To appear in Quantum Information Processing. Requires: algorithm.sty, algorithmic.sty to build
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 4, No. 5, 355 - 386 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411140
abstract: In this article we give several new results on the complexity of algorithms that learn Boolean functions from quantum queries and quantum examples. Hunziker et al. conjectured that for any class C of Boolean functions, the number of quantum black-box queries which are required to exactly identify an unknown function from C is $O(\frac{\log |C|}{\sqrt{{\hat{\gamma}}^{C}}})$, where $\hat{\gamma}^{C}$ is a combinatorial parameter of the class C. We essentially resolve this conjecture in the affirmative by giving a quantum algorithm that, for any class C, identifies any unknown function from C using $O(\frac{\log |C| \log \log |C|}{\sqrt{{\hat{\gamma}}^{C}}})$ quantum black-box queries. We consider a range of natural problems intermediate between the exact learning problem (in which the learner must obtain all bits of information about the black-box function) and the usual problem of computing a predicate (in which the learner must obtain only one bit of information about the black-box function). We give positive and negative results on when the quantum and classical query complexities of these intermediate problems are polynomially related to each other. Finally, we improve the known lower bounds on the number of quantum examples (as opposed to quantum black-box queries) required for $(\epsilon,\delta)$-PAC learning any concept class of Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension d over the domain $\{0,1\}^n$ from $\Omega(\frac{d}{n})$ to $\Omega(\frac{1}{\epsilon}\log \frac{1}{\delta}+d+\frac{\sqrt{d}}{\epsilon})$. This new lower bound comes closer to matching known upper bounds for classical PAC learning.

id: quant-ph/0411141
title: Hydrodynamic construction of the electromagnetic field
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 21 pages
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 461, 3659-3679 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411141
abstract: We present an alternative Eulerian hydrodynamic model for the electromagnetic field in which the discrete vector indices in Maxwell\s equations are replaced by continuous angular freedoms, and develop the corresponding Lagrangian picture in which the fluid particles have rotational and translational freedoms. This enables us to extend to the electromagnetic field the exact method of state construction proposed previously for spin 0 systems, in which the time-dependent wavefunction is computed from a single-valued continuum of deterministic trajectories where two spacetime points are linked by at most a single orbit. The deduction of Maxwell\s equations from continuum mechanics is achieved by generalizing the spin 0 theory to a general Riemannian manifold from which the electromagnetic construction is extracted as a special case. In particular, the flat-space Maxwell equations are represented as a curved-space Schr\"odinger equation for a massive system. The Lorentz covariance of the Eulerian field theory is obtained from the non-covariant Lagrangian-coordinate model as a kind of collective effect. The method makes manifest the electromagnetic analogue of the quantum potential that is tacit in Maxwell\s equations. This implies a novel definition of the \classical limit\ of Maxwell\s equations that differs from geometrical optics. It is shown that Maxwell\s equations may be obtained by canonical quantization of the classical model. Using the classical trajectories a novel expression is derived for the propagator of the electromagnetic field in the Eulerian picture. The trajectory and propagator methods of solution are illustrated for the case of a light wave.

id: quant-ph/0411142
title: Generalised Smolin states and their properties
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Pawel Horodecki
comments: RevTeX, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411142
abstract: Four qubit bound entangled Smolin states are generalised in a natural way to even number of qubits. They are shown to maximally violate simple correlation Bell inequalities and, as such, to reduce communication complexity, though they do not admit quantum security. They are also shown to serve for remote quantum information concentration like in the case of the original four qubit states. Application of the information concentration to the process of unlocking of classical correlations and quantum entanglement by quantum bit is pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0411143
title: Local copying of orthogonal maximally entangled states and its relationship to local discrimination
authors: Masaki Owari, Masahito Hayashi
comments: The material in this paper was presented on November 15, 2004 at Cambridge workshop on Quantum Statistics - Quantum Measurements, Estimation and Related Topics, Cambridge, UK
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411143
abstract: In the quantum system, perfect copying is impossible without prior knowledge. But, perfect copying is possible, if it is known that unknown states to be copied is contained by the set of orthogonal states, which is called the copied set. However, if our operation is limited to local operations and classical communications, this problem is not trivial. Recently, F. Anselmi, A. Chefles and M.B. Plenio constructed theory of local copying when the copied set consists of maximally entangled states. They also classified the copied set when it consists of two orthogonal states (New. J. Phys. 6, 164 (2004)). In this paper, we completely classify the copied set of local copying of the maximally entangled states in the prime dimensional system. That is, we prove that, in the prime dimensional system, the set of locally copiable maximally entangled states is equivalent to the set of Simultaneously Schmidt decomposable canonical form Bell states. As a result, we conclude that local copying of maximally entangled states is much more difficult than local discrimination at least in prime dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0411144
title: Quantum gate characterization in an extended Hilbert space
authors: Peter P. Rohde, G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX (published version)
journal: Phys.Rev.A72:032306,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411144
abstract: We describe an approach for characterizing the process of quantum gates using quantum process tomography, by first modeling them in an extended Hilbert space, which includes non-qubit degrees of freedom. To prevent unphysical processes from being predicted, present quantum process tomography procedures incorporate mathematical constraints, which make no assumptions as to the actual physical nature of the system being described. By contrast, the procedure presented here ensures physicality by placing physical constraints on the nature of quantum processes. This allows quantum process tomography to be performed using a smaller experimental data set, and produces parameters with a direct physical interpretation. The approach is demonstrated by example of mode-matching in an all-optical controlled-NOT gate. The techniques described are non-specific and could be applied to other optical circuits or quantum computing architectures.

id: quant-ph/0411145
title: Quantum Zeno effect by general measurements
authors: K. Koshino, A. Shimizu
comments: 82 pages, 36 figures
journal: Phys.Rept. 412 (2005) 191-275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411145
abstract: It was predicted that frequently repeated measurements on an unstable quantum state may alter the decay rate of the state. This is called the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) or the anti-Zeno effect (AZE), depending on whether the decay is suppressed or enhanced. In conventional theories of the QZE and AZE, effects of measurements are simply described by the projection postulate, assuming that each measurement is an instantaneous and ideal one. However, real measurements are not instantaneous and ideal. For the QZE and AZE by such general measurements, interesting and surprising features have recently been revealed, which we review in this article. The results are based on the quantum measurement theory, which is also reviewed briefly. As a typical model, we consider a continuous measurement of the decay of an excited atom by a photodetector that detects a photon emitted from the atom upon decay. This measurement is an indirect negative-result one, for which the curiosity of the QZE and AZE is emphasized. It is shown that the form factor is renormalized as a backaction of the measurement, through which the decay dynamics is modified. In a special case of the flat response, where the detector responds to every photon mode with an identical response time, results of the conventional theories are reproduced qualitatively. However, drastic differences emerge in general cases where the detector responds only to limited photon modes. For example, against predictions of the conventional theories, the QZE or AZE may take place even for states that exactly follow the exponential decay law. We also discuss relation to the cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0411146
title: Temporal shaping of entangled photons
authors: Avi pe'er, Barak Dayan, Asher A. Friesem, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Accepted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 073601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411146
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate shaping of the two-photon wavefunction of entangled photon-pairs, utilizing coherent pulse-shaping techniques. By performing spectral-phase manipulations we tailor the two-photon wavefunction exactly like a coherent ultrashort pulse. To observe the shaping we perform sum-frequency generation (SFG) with an ultrahigh flux of entangled photons. At the appropriate conditions, SFG performs as a coincidence detector with an ultrashort response time (~100 fs), enabling a direct observation of the two-photon wavefunction. This property also enables us to demonstrate background-free, high-visibility two-photon interference oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0411147
title: Observation of sub-Poisson photon statistics in the cavity-QED microlaser
authors: Wonshik Choi, Jai-Hyung Lee, Kyungwon An, C. Fang-Yen, R. R. Dasari, M. S. Feld
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411147
abstract: We have measured the second-order correlation function of the cavity-QED microlaser output and observed a transition from photon bunching to antibunching with increasing average number of intracavity atoms. The observed correlation times and the transition from super- to sub-Poisson photon statistics can be well described by gain-loss feedback or enhanced/reduced restoring action against fluctuations in photon number in the context of a quantum microlaser theory and a photon rate equation picture. However, the theory predicts a degree of antibunching several times larger than that observed, which may indicate the inadequacy of its treatment of atomic velocity distributions.

id: quant-ph/0411148
title: An exact solution of the slow-light problem
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko, A. R. Bishop
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411148
abstract: We investigate propagation of a slow-light soliton in atomic vapors and Bose-Einstein condensates described by the nonlinear Lambda-model. We show that the group velocity of the soliton monotonically decreases with the intensity of the controlling laser field, which decays exponentially after the laser is switched off. The shock wave of the vanishing controlling field overtakes the slow soliton and stops it, while the optical information is recorded in the medium in the form of spatially localized polarization. We find an explicit exact solution describing the whole process within the slowly varying amplitude and phase approximation. Our results point to the possibility of addressing spatially localized memory formations and moving these memory bits along the medium in a controllable fashion.

id: quant-ph/0411149
title: Manipulation of optical memory bits in atomic vapors and Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: I.P. Vadeiko, A.V. Rybin, A. R. Bishop
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411149
abstract: We provide an exact analytic description of decelerating, stopping and re-accelerating optical solitons in atomic media. By virtue of this solution we describe in detail how spatially localized optical memory bits can be written down, read and moved along the atomic medium in a prescribed manner. Dynamical control over the solitons is realized via a background laser field whose intensity controls the velocity of the slow light in a similar way as in the linear theory of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We solve the nonlinear model when the controlling field and the solitons interact in an inseparable nonlinear superposition process. This allows us to access results beyond the limits of the linear theory of EIT.

id: quant-ph/0411150
title: Cylindrical quantum well of finite depth in external magnetic field
authors: O. R. Lobanova, A. I. Ivanov
comments: 6 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411150
abstract: Energy spectrum of an electron confined by finite hard-wall potential in a cylinder quantum dot placed in weak (up to 100 kOe) homogeneous external magnetic field were calculated using the method of variation of vector potential. Electronic motion along the cylinder axis is limited by one-dimensional infinite potential barrier and electronic motion on the plane perpendicular to the axis is limited by two-dimensional finite potential barrier.

id: quant-ph/0411151
title: Quantum Walks with Entangled Coins
authors: S.E. Venegas-Andraca, J.L. Ball, K. Burnett, S. Bose
comments: Two new sections and several changes from referees' comments. 12 pages and 12 (colour) figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 7 (2005) 221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411151
abstract: We present a mathematical formalism for the description of unrestricted quantum walks with entangled coins and one walker. The numerical behaviour of such walks is examined when using a Bell state as the initial coin state, two different coin operators, two different shift operators, and one walker. We compare and contrast the performance of these quantum walks with that of a classical random walk consisting of one walker and two maximally correlated coins as well as quantum walks with coins sharing different degrees of entanglement. We illustrate that the behaviour of our walk with entangled coins can be very different in comparison to the usual quantum walk with a single coin. We also demonstrate that simply by changing the shift operator, we can generate widely different distributions. We also compare the behaviour of quantum walks with maximally entangled coins with that of quantum walks with non-entangled coins. Finally, we show that the use of different shift operators on 2 and 3 qubit coins leads to different position probability distributions in 1 and 2 dimensional graphs.

id: quant-ph/0411152
title: An Elementary Proof of the Quantum Adiabatic Theorem
authors: Andris Ambainis, Oded Regev
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411152
abstract: We provide an elementary proof of the quantum adiabatic theorem.

id: quant-ph/0411153
title: Warp-Drive Quantum Computation
authors: Mikio Nakahara, Juha J. Vartiainen, Yasushi Kondo, Shogo Tanimura, Kazuya Hata
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, and 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411153
abstract: Recently it has been shown that time-optimal quantum computation is attained by using the Cartan decomposition of a unitary matrix. We extend this approach by noting that the unitary group is compact. This allows us to reduce the execution time of a quantum algorithm $U_{\rm alg}$ further by adding an extra gate $W$ to it. This gate $W$ sends $U_{\rm alg}$ to another algorithm $WU_{\rm alg}$ which is executable in a shorter time than $U_{\rm alg}$. We call this technique warp-drive. Here we show both theoretically and experimentally that the execution time of Grover's algorithm is reduced in two-qubit NMR quantum computer. Warp-drive is potentially a powerful tool in accelerating algorithms and reducing the errors in any realization. of a quantum computer

id: quant-ph/0411154
title: Quantum Control with Level Set Method
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411154
abstract: We examine the relevance of Level Set Methods (LSM)in coherent control quantum systems where the objective is to retain or attain a particular expectation value of a given measurable. The differences with the usual applications of LSM, where continuous closed interfaces are involved, and the quantum case, where we may have a discrete number of points to deal with, are noted. The question of optimization in this new context is also clarified. Simple examples with symmetric and asymmetric multidimensional potentials are briefly considered.

id: quant-ph/0411155
title: Evolution of Level Sets in Hamilton Parameter Space
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411155
abstract: We develop a formalism to study the use of Level Set Method (LSM) in the investigation of evolution of observables in terms of parameters of the Hamiltonian, both of the system itself and the control part. A simple example with an analytic solution available perturbatively is examined. We show that B splines can quite accurately and smoothly interpolate surfaces corresponding to constant expectation value of observables which form the level sets as projections on a finite mesh of data. Lastly we make a brief priliminary scrutiny of teh possibility of using temperature as a relevant parameter in ensembles of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0411156
title: A succinct presentation of the quantized Klein-Gordon field, and a similar quantum presentation of the classical Klein-Gordon random field
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 8 pages, related to Phys.Lett.A 321(2004)216; v2: incorporates changes corresponding to published form
journal: Phys.Lett. A321 (2004) 216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411156
abstract: A succinct presentation of the algebraic structure of the quantized Klein-Gordon field can be given in terms of a Lorentz invariant inner product. A presentation of a classical Klein-Gordon \emph{random} field at non-zero temperature can be given in the same noncommutative algebraic style, allowing a detailed comparison of the quantized Klein-Gordon field with a classical Klein-Gordon random field.

id: quant-ph/0411157
title: Entanglement concentration for unknown atomic entangled states via entanglement swapping
authors: Ming Yang, Yan Zhao, Wei Song, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 044302 (2005) (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411157
abstract: An entanglement concentration scheme for unknown atomic entanglement states is proposed via entanglement swapping in cavity QED. Because the interaction used here is a large-detuned one between two driven atoms and a quantized cavity mode, the effects of the cavity decay and thermal field have been eliminated. These advantages can warrant the experimental feasibility of the current scheme.

id: quant-ph/0411158
title: Quantum Optimal Control and Level Sets
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411158
abstract: We investigate how the concepts of optimal control of measurables of a system with a time dependent Hamiltonian may be mixed with the level set technique to keep the desired entity invariant. We derive sets of equations for this purpose and also algorithms for numerical use. The notion of constancy of measurables in this context is also examined to make the techniques more useful in real-life situation where some variability of the measurable may be tolerable.

id: quant-ph/0411159
title: Energy Level Sets for the Morse Potential
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411159
abstract: In continuation of our previous work investigating the possibility of the use of the Level Set Method in quantum control, we here present some numerical results for a Morse potential. We find that a proper treatment of the Morse potential eigenfunctions and eigenvalues for the case of a system with a small number of bound energy levels, the anharmonic perturbative approximation is actually invalid. We, therefore, use a Runge-Kutta integration method that gives more plausible results. We also calculate the dipole moment for the transitions between the two levels with our eigenfunctions and find that there is a critical depth of the potential. Finally we find the level sets giving equal expectation values of the energy, and comment on the unitary operators needed to make transitions from any level set to another.

id: quant-ph/0411160
title: Optimal Control of Quantum Systems and a Generalized Level Set Method
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411160
abstract: We study the application of a generalized form of the level set method used in classical physical contexts to quantum optimal control situations. The set of OCT equations needed to keep the expectation value of an observable constant is first discussed and the dimensionality of the actual parameter space carefully considered. Then we see how concepts of level set methods emerge that may help solve the inverse problem associated with designing the control Hamiltonian with greater speed. The formal equations and the algorithm are presented.

id: quant-ph/0411161
title: Phase delay time and superluminal propagation in barrier tunneling
authors: Swarnali Bandopadhyay, A. M. Jayannavar
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411161
abstract: In this work we study the behaviour of Wigner phase delay time for tunneling in the reflection mode. Our system consists of a circular loop connected to a single wire of semi-infinite length in the presence of Aharonov-Bohm flux. We calculate the analytical expression for the saturated delay time. This saturated delay time is independent of Aharonov- Bohm flux and the width of the opaque barrier thereby generalizing the Hartman effect. This effect implies superluminal group velocities as a consequence. We also briefly discuss the concept called "space collapse or space destroyer".

id: quant-ph/0411162
title: Quantum Fidelity Decay of Quasi-Integrable Systems
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, to be published Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 016209 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411162
abstract: We show, via numerical simulations, that the fidelity decay behavior of quasi-integrable systems is strongly dependent on the location of the initial coherent state with respect to the underlying classical phase space. In parallel to classical fidelity, the quantum fidelity generally exhibits Gaussian decay when the perturbation affects the frequency of periodic phase space orbits and power-law decay when the perturbation changes the shape of the orbits. For both behaviors the decay rate also depends on initial state location. The spectrum of the initial states in the eigenbasis of the system reflects the different fidelity decay behaviors. In addition, states with initial Gaussian decay exhibit a stage of exponential decay for strong perturbations. This elicits a surprising phenomenon: a strong perturbation can induce a higher fidelity than a weak perturbation of the same type.

id: quant-ph/0411163
title: Quantum lithography by coherent control of classical light pulses
authors: Avi Pe'er, Barak Dayan, Marija Vucelja, Yaron Silberberg, Asher A. Friesem
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Submitted to Opt. Express
journal: Opt. Express. 12, 6600 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411163
abstract: The smallest spot in optical lithography and microscopy is generally limited by diffraction. Quantum lithography, which utilizes interference between groups of N entangled photons, was recently proposed to beat the diffraction limit by a factor N. Here we propose a simple method to obtain N photons interference with classical pulses that excite a narrow multiphoton transition, thus shifting the "quantum weight" from the electromagnetic field to the lithographic material. We show how a practical complete lithographic scheme can be developed and demonstrate the underlying principles experimentally by two-photon interference in atomic Rubidium, to obtain focal spots that beat the diffraction limit by a factor of 2.

id: quant-ph/0411164
title: A computable measure of nonclassicality for light
authors: J. K. Asb¨®th, J. Calsamiglia, H. Ritsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 173602 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411164
abstract: We propose the Entanglement Potential (EP) as a measure of nonclassicality for quantum states of a single-mode electromagnetic field. It is the amount of two-mode entanglement that can be generated from the field using linear optics, auxiliary classical states and ideal photodetectors. The EP detects nonclassicality, has a direct physical interpretation, and can be computed efficiently. These three properties together make it stand out from previously proposed nonclassicality measures. We derive closed expressions for the EP of important classes of states and analyze as an example the degradation of nonclassicality in lossy channels.

id: quant-ph/0411166
title: Complex Moduli of Physical Quanta
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: Some minor cosmetic changes made and new refs. added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 869-874
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411166
abstract: Classical mechanics can be formulated using a symplectic structure on classical phase space, while quantum mechanics requires a complex-differentiable structure on that same space. Complex-differentiable structures on a given real manifold are often not unique. This letter is devoted to analysing the dependence of the notion of a quantum on the complex-differentiable structure chosen on classical phase space.

id: quant-ph/0411167
title: Measurement Induced Localization of Relative Degrees of Freedom
authors: Hugo Cable, Peter L. Knight, Terry Rudolph
comments: v2 has minor corrections, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411167
abstract: We present a comprehensive study, using both analytical and numerical methods, of measurement-induced localization of relational degrees of freedom. Looking first at the interference of two optical modes, we find that the localization of the relative phase can be as good for mixed states - in particular for two initially Poissonian or thermal states - as for the well-known case of two Fock states. In a realistic setup the localization for mixed states is robust and experimentally accessible, and we discuss applications to superselection rules. For an ideal setup and initial Fock states we show how a relational Schr\"{o}dinger cat state emerges, and investigate circumstances under which such a state is destroyed. In our second example we consider the localization of relative atomic phase between two Bose Einstein condensates, looking particularly at the build up of spatial interference patterns, an area which has attracted much attention since the work of Javanainen and Yoo. We show that the relative phase localizes much faster than was intimated in previous studies focusing on the emerging interference pattern itself. Finally, we explore the localization of relative spatial parameters discussed in recent work by Rau, Dunningham and Burnett. We retain their models of indistinguishable scattering but make different assumptions. In particular we consider the case of a real distant observer monitoring light scattering off two particles, who records events only from a narrow field of view. The localization is only partial regardless of the number of observations. This paper contributes to the wider debate on relationism in quantum mechanics, which treats fundamental concepts - reference frames and conservation laws - from a fully quantum and operational perspective.

id: quant-ph/0411168
title: The Hypervirial-Pad¨¦ Summation Method Applied to the Anharmonic Oscillator
authors: Altug Arda
comments: 5 pages Latex
journal: Turk.J.Phys.28:223-227,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411168
abstract: The energy eigenvalues of the anharmonic oscillator characterized by the cubic potential for various eigenstates are determined within the framework of the hypervirial-Pad\'e summation method. For this purpose the E[3,3] and E[3,4] Pad\'e approximants are formed to the energy perturbation series and given the energy eigenvalues up to fourth order in terms of the anharmonicity parameter $\lambda$.

id: quant-ph/0411169
title: Quantum mechanics as a result of time broadening of the classical object
authors: A. M. Ghorbanzadeh
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411169
abstract: It is shown that the Schrodinger equation is a byproduct of more deterministic Boltzmann-like equation. All physical information is derived from the solution of this equation, which is a function of space and momentum. The additional terms in this equation, when compared with the classical Boltzmann equation, asserts that the particle should be broadened over the time axis, i.e., it is partly present at the past, the present, and the future. The solution of this equation itself is nonlocal. This solution requires an especial time coordinate that is different from the usual time parameter entering into the formalism of quantum mechanics. This time coordinate is hidden in the structure of wave function. It is substantiated that the mixed state is a natural result of time broadening. Furthermore, the interaction between an object that is broadened in time and an observer that has a very narrow time-width leads to the collapse of wave function.

id: quant-ph/0411170
title: Nonlinear Bogolyubov-Valatin transformations and quaternions
authors: J.-W. van Holten, K. Scharnhorst
comments: 6 pages REVTEX (v3: two paragraphs appended, minor stylistic changes, eq. (39) corrected, references [10]-[14], [36], [37], [41], [67]-[69] added; v4: few extensions, references [62], [63] added, final version to be published in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.)
journal: J.Phys.A38:10245-10252,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411170
abstract: In introducing second quantization for fermions, Jordan and Wigner (1927/1928) observed that the algebra of a single pair of fermion creation and annihilation operators in quantum mechanics is closely related to the algebra of quaternions H. For the first time, here we exploit this fact to study nonlinear Bogolyubov-Valatin transformations (canonical transformations for fermions) for a single fermionic mode. By means of these transformations, a class of fermionic Hamiltonians in an external field is related to the standard Fermi oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0411171
title: On Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians and Their Hermitian Counterparts
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411171
abstract: In the context of two particularly interesting non-Hermitian models in quantum mechanics we explore the relationship between the original Hamiltonian H and its Hermitian counterpart h, obtained from H by a similarity transformation, as pointed out by Mostafazadeh. In the first model, due to Swanson, h turns out to be just a scaled harmonic oscillator, which explains the form of its spectrum. However, the transformation is not unique, which also means that the observables of the original theory are not uniquely determined by H alone. The second model we consider is the original PT-invariant Hamiltonian, with potential V=igx^3. In this case the corresponding h, which we are only able to construct in perturbation theory, corresponds to a complicated velocity-dependent potential. We again explore the relationship between the canonical variables x and p and the observables X and P.

id: quant-ph/0411172
title: Information and Entropy in Quantum Theory
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: PhD Thesis, 2002. 306 pages. 43 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411172
abstract: We look at certain thought experiments based upon the 'delayed choice' and 'quantum eraser' interference experiments, which present a complementarity between information gathered from a quantum measurement and interference effects. It has been argued that these experiments show the Bohm interpretation of quantum theory is untenable. We demonstrate that these experiments depend critically upon the assumption that a quantum optics device can operate as a measuring device, and show that, in the context of these experiments, it cannot be consistently understood in this way. By contrast, we then show how the notion of 'active information' in the Bohm interpretation provides a coherent explanation of the phenomena shown in these experiments. We then examine the relationship between information and entropy. The thought experiment connecting these two quantities is the Szilard Engine version of Maxwell's Demon, and it has been suggested that quantum measurement plays a key role in this. We provide the first complete description of the operation of the Szilard Engine as a quantum system. This enables us to demonstrate that the role of quantum measurement suggested is incorrect, and further, that the use of information theory to resolve Szilard's paradox is both unnecessary and insufficient. Finally we show that, if the concept of 'active information' is extended to cover thermal density matrices, then many of the conceptual problems raised by this paradox appear to be resolved.

id: quant-ph/0411173
title: Semiclassical Husimi functions for spin systems
authors: Marcel Novaes, Marcus A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 012104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411173
abstract: We derive a semiclassical approximation to the Husimi functions of stationary states of spin systems. We rederive the Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization for spin by locating the poles of the corresponding local Green function. The residues correspond to the Husimi functions, which are seen to agree very well with exact calculations.

id: quant-ph/0411174
title: Quantum theory as a statistical theory under symmetry
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: The paper has been withdrawn because it is outdated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411174
abstract: Both statistics and quantum theory deal with prediction using probability. We will show that there can be established a connection between these two areas. This will at the same time suggest a new, less formalistic way of looking upon basic quantum theory. A total parameter space $\Phi$, equipped with a group $G$ of transformations, gives the mental image of some quantum system, in such a way that only certain components, functions of the total parameter $\phi$ can be estimated. Choose an experiment/ question $a$, and get from this a parameter space $\Lambda^{a}$, perhaps after some model reduction compatible with the group structure. The essentially statistical construction of this paper leads under natural assumptions to the basic axioms of quantum mechanics, and thus implies a new statistical interpretation of this traditionally very formal theory. The probabilities are introduced via Born's formula, and this formula is proved from general, reasonable assumptions, essentially symmetry assumptions. The theory is illustrated by a simple macroscopic example, and by the example of a spin 1/2 particle. As a last example we show a connection to inference between related macroscropic experiments under symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0411175
title: Basic Concepts for a Quantum Mechanical Theory of Events
authors: Kim J. Bostroem
comments: 48 pages, 4 figures, revised introduction, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411175
abstract: A physical theory is proposed that obeys both the principles of special relativity and of quantum mechanics. As a key feature, the laws are formulated in terms of quantum events rather than of particle states. Temporal and spatial coordinates of a quantum event are treated on equal footing, namely as self-adjoint operators on a Hilbert space. The theory is not based upon Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics, and breaks with the concept of a continuously flowing time. The physical object under consideration is a spinless particle exposed to an external potential. The theory also accounts for particle-antiparticle pair creation and annihilation, and is therefore not a single-particle theory in the usual sense. The Maxwell equations are derived as a straightforward consequence of certain fundamental commutation relations. In the non-relativistic limit and in the limit of vanishing time uncertainty, the Schr\"odinger equation of a spinless particle exposed to an external electromagnetic field is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0411176
title: Enhancement of NMR signal via phase whitening and quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Toshio Fukumi, Shizuo Fujiwara
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411176
abstract: NNR siganal will be enhanced by phase pre-whitening of presession of spin followed by quantum Fourier transform. FFT cannot the business as the phase is random.

id: quant-ph/0411177
title: Engineering antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin chains for maximizing of the groundstate entanglement
authors: R. Xin, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A 342 30 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411177
abstract: We study the correlation function and concurrence for the eigenstates with zero spin of engineered Heisenberg models to explore the entanglement property. It is shown that the total nearest neighbor (NN) correlation function of zero-spin eigenstates reaches its local extremum when the coupling strength is uniform, and correspondingly the groundstate entanglement of $d$-D cubic AF Heisenberg model is locally maximized. Moreover, numerical calculations for a $N$-site quantum spin ring with cosinusoidally modulated exchange coupling, i.e. $J_i=J(1+\cos(2\pi i/N))$, indicate that the uniform coupling is not the unique optimal distribution for maximizing the groundstate entanglement and this modulation of interactions can induce the longer range entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0411178
title: State-insensitive trapping and guiding of cesium atoms using a two-color evanescent field around a subwavelength-diameter fiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, V. I. Balykin, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411178
abstract: We calculate the optical potentials, i.e. the light shifts, of the ground and excited states of atomic cesium in a two-color evanescent field around a subwavelength-diameter fiber. We show that the light shifts of the $6S_{1/2}\leftrightarrow 6P_{3/2}$ transitions can be minimized by tuning one trapping light to around 934.5 nm in wavelength (central red-detuned magic wavelength) and the other light to around 685.5 nm in wavelength (central blue-detuned magic wavelength). The simultaneous use of the red- and blue-detuned magic wavelengths allows state-insensitive two-color trapping and guiding of cesium atoms along the thin fiber. Our results can be used to efficiently load a two-color dipole trap by cesium atoms from a magneto-optical trap and to perform continuous observations.

id: quant-ph/0411179
title: Multipartite Asymmetric Quantum Cloning
authors: S. Iblisdir, A. Acin, N. Gisin, J. Fiurasek, R. Filip, N.J. Cerf
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411179
abstract: We investigate the optimal distribution of quantum information over multipartite systems in asymmetric settings. We introduce cloning transformations that take $N$ identical replicas of a pure state in any dimension as input, and yield a collection of clones with non-identical fidelities. As an example, if the clones are partitioned into a set of $M_A$ clones with fidelity $F^A$ and another set of $M_B$ clones with fidelity $F^B$, the trade-off between these fidelities is analyzed, and particular cases of optimal $N \to M_A+M_B$ cloning machines are exhibited. We also present an optimal $1 \to 1+1+1$ cloning machine, which is the first known example of a tripartite fully asymmetric cloner. Finally, it is shown how these cloning machines can be optically realized.

id: quant-ph/0411180
title: Experimental Demonstration of Quantum State Multi-meter and One-qubit Fingerprinting in a Single Quantum Device
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Ping Zou, Daniel K. L. Oi, Xinhua Peng, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh, Artur Ekert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411180
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate in NMR a quantum interferometric multi-meter for extracting certain properties of unknown quantum states without resource to quantum tomography. It can perform direct state determinations, eigenvalue/eigenvector estimations, purity tests of a quantum system, as well as the overlap of any two unknown quantum states. Using the same device, we also demonstrate one-qubit quantum fingerprinting.

id: quant-ph/0411181
title: Macroscopic tunnel splittings in superconducting phase qubits
authors: Philip R. Johnson, William T. Parsons, Frederick W. Strauch, J.R. Anderson, Alex J. Dragt, C.J. Lobb, F.C. Wellstood
comments: 4 pages (3 figures); accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 187004 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411181
abstract: Prototype Josephson-junction based qubit coherence times are too short for quantum computing. Recent experiments probing superconducting phase qubits have revealed previously unseen fine splittings in the transition energy spectra. These splittings have been attributed to new microscopic degrees of freedom (microresonators), a previously unknown source of decoherence. We show that macroscopic resonant tunneling in the extremely asymmetric double well potential of the phase qubit can have observational consequences that are strikingly similar to the observed data.

id: quant-ph/0411182
title: Level Set Method for Quantum Control of Dipole Moment
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411182
abstract: We investigate the level set method (LSM) in a specific quantum context; namely the dipole transition moment for a system with a nontrivial Morse potential. We draw equal moment sets in the two-dimensional space of two important parameters of the potential, namely the depth of the potential and its width. Another variable is introduced as a scale and we see "motions" of the level sets normal to the contours, as in classical contexts such as fluid dynamics or in epitaxial crystal growth. Presumably interpolating the level sets normally by smooth functions such as splines may give a fairly accurate method of combining the variables to keep the dipole moment invariant.

id: quant-ph/0411183
title: Experimental investigation of quantum key distribution with position and momentum of photon pairs
authors: M. P. Almeida, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, subimitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411183
abstract: We investigate the utility of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations of the position and momentum of photon pairs from parametric down-conversion in the implementation of a secure quantum key distribution protocol. We show that security is guaranteed by the entanglement between downconverted pairs, and can be checked by either direct comparison of Alice and Bob's measurement results or evaluation of an inequality of the sort proposed by Mancini et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 120401 (2002)).

id: quant-ph/0411184
title: Shor's Factoring Algorithm and Modern Cryptography. An Illustration of the Capabilities Inherent in Quantum Computers
authors: Edward Gerjuoy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411184
abstract: The security of messages encoded via the widely used RSA public key encryption system rests on the enormous computational effort required to find the prime factors of a large number N using classical (i.e., conventional) computers. In 1994, however, Peter Shor showed that for sufficiently large N a quantum computer would be expected to perform the factoring with much less computational effort. This paper endeavors to explain, in a fashion comprehensible to the non-expert readers of this journal: (i) the RSA encryption protocol; (ii) the various quantum computer manipulations constituting the Shor algorithm; (iii) how the Shor algorithm performs the factoring; and (iv) the precise sense in which a quantum computer employing Shor's algorithm can be said to accomplish the factoring of very large numbers with less computational effort than a classical computer can. It is made apparent that factoring $N$ generally requires many successive runs of the algorithm. The careful analysis herein reveals, however, that the probability of achieving a successful factorization on a single run is about twice as large as commonly quoted in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0411185
title: The time-reversal test for stochastic quantum dynamics
authors: Mark R. Dowling, Peter D. Drummond, Matthew J. Davis, Piotr Deuar
comments: revtex4, two figures, four pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 130401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411185
abstract: The calculation of quantum dynamics is currently a central issue in theoretical physics, with diverse applications ranging from ultra-cold atomic Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) to condensed matter, biology, and even astrophysics. Here we demonstrate a conceptually simple method of determining the regime of validity of stochastic simulations of unitary quantum dynamics by employing a time-reversal test. We apply this test to a simulation of the evolution of a quantum anharmonic oscillator with up to $6.022\times10^{23}$ (Avogadro's number) of particles. This system is realisable as a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical lattice, for which the time-reversal procedure could be implemented experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0411186
title: Berry's phase with quantized field driving: effects of inter-subsystem coupling
authors: L. C. Wang, H. T. Cui, X.X. Yi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052106 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411186
abstract: The effect of inter-subsystem couplings on the Berry phase of a composite system as well as that of its subsystem is investigated in this paper. We analyze two coupled spin-$\frac 1 2 $ particles with one driven by a quantized field as an example, the pure state geometric phase of the composite system as well as the mixed state geometric phase for the subsystem is calculated and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411187
title: Atomic theory methods for the polarization in photon and electron interactions with atoms
authors: A. Kupliauskiene
comments: 19 pages
journal: Lithuanian Journal of Physics, Vol. 44, No. 3, pp. 199-218 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411187
abstract: An alternative method to the density matrix formalism for the derivation of general expressions of the interaction of polarized atoms with polarized photons and electrons is presented. The expression for the cross-section describing the polarization states of all particles taking part in the process are obtained in the form of an expansion via irreducible tensors that have the most simplest possible behaviour under changes of directions. The ways of the application of the general expressions suitable for the specific experimental conditions are outlined by deriving asymmetry parameters of the angular distributions of photoelectrons and Auger electrons following photoionization as well as the parameters of the angular correlations between photo- and Auger electrons.

id: quant-ph/0411188
title: Quantum computer with dipole-dipole interacting two-level systems
authors: David Petrosyan, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures; expanded quant-ph/0205174 (PRL 89, 207902)
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 6, 1 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411188
abstract: A scalable, high-performance quantum processor can be implemented using near-resonant dipole-dipole interacting dopants in a solid state host. In this scheme, the qubits are represented by ground and subradiant states of effective dimers formed by pairs of closely spaced two-level systems, while the two-qubit entanglement either relies on the coherent excitation exchange between the dimers or is mediated by external laser fields.

id: quant-ph/0411189
title: Open quantum systems
authors: A. Isar, A. Sandulescu, H. Scutaru, E. Stefanescu, W. Scheid
comments: 84 pages, review article
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E, Vol. 3, No. 2 (1994) 635
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411189
abstract: The damping of the harmonic oscillator is studied in the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems. A generalization of the fundamental constraints on quantum mechanical diffusion coefficients which appear in the master equation for the damped quantum oscillator is presented; the Schr\"odinger, Heisenberg and Weyl-Wigner-Moyal representations of the Lindblad equation are given explicitly. On the basis of these representations it is shown that various master equations for the damped quantum oscillator used in the literature are particular cases of the Lindblad equation and that not all of these equations are satisfying the constraints on quantum mechanical diffusion coefficients. The master equation is transformed into Fokker-Planck equations for quasiprobability distributions and a comparative study is made for the Glauber $P$ representation, the antinormal ordering $Q$ representation and the Wigner $W$ representation. The density matrix is represented via a generating function, which is obtained by solving a time-dependent linear partial differential equation derived from the master equation. The damped harmonic oscillator is applied for the description of the charge equilibration mode observed in deep inelastic reactions. For a system consisting of two harmonic oscillators the time dependence of expectation values, Wigner function and Weyl operator are obtained and discussed. In addition models for the damping of the angular momentum are studied. Using this theory to the quantum tunneling through the nuclear barrier, besides Gamow's transitions with energy conservation, additional transitions with energy loss, are found. When this theory is used to the resonant atom-field interaction, new optical equations describing the coupling through the environment are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0411190
title: Communication cost of breaking the Bell barrier
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: One new reference referring to a maximal algebraic violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 050302(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411190
abstract: Correlations in an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiment can be made stronger than quantum correlations by allowing a single bit of classical communication between the two sides of the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0411191
title: Continuous Variable Quantum State Sharing via Quantum Disentanglement
authors: Andrew M. Lance, Thomas Symul, Warwick P. Bowen, Barry C. Sanders, Tomas Tyc, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: Published, Phys. Rev. A 71, 033814 (2005) (7 figures, 11 pages)
journal: Published, Phys. Rev. A 71, 033814 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411191
abstract: Quantum state sharing is a protocol where perfect reconstruction of quantum states is achieved with incomplete or partial information in a multi-partite quantum networks. Quantum state sharing allows for secure communication in a quantum network where partial information is lost or acquired by malicious parties. This protocol utilizes entanglement for the secret state distribution, and a class of "quantum disentangling" protocols for the state reconstruction. We demonstrate a quantum state sharing protocol in which a tripartite entangled state is used to encode and distribute a secret state to three players. Any two of these players can collaborate to reconstruct the secret state, whilst individual players obtain no information. We investigate a number of quantum disentangling processes and experimentally demonstrate quantum state reconstruction using two of these protocols. We experimentally measure a fidelity, averaged over all reconstruction permutations, of F = 0.73. A result achievable only by using quantum resources.

id: quant-ph/0411192
title: Preparation of arbitrary qutrit state based on biphotons
authors: Yu.I.Bogdanov, M.V.Chekhova, S.P.Kulik, G.A.Maslennikov, C.H. Oh, M.K. Tey
comments: An extended version of our PRL paper. All calibration graphs and more comments added. Accepted for publication is Proc. of SPIE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411192
abstract: The novel experimental realization of three-state optical quantum systems is presented. We use the polarization state of biphotons,propagating in single frequency- and spatial mode, to generate an arbitrary qutrits. In particular the specific sequence of states that are used in the extended version of BB84 quantum key distribution protocol was generated and tested. We experimentally verify the orthogonality of the 12 basic states and demonstrate the ability of switching between them. The tomography procedure is applied to reconstruct the density matrices of generated states.

id: quant-ph/0411193
title: A Simple Scheme to Entangle Distant Qubits from a Mixed State via an Entanglement Mediator
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Hiromichi Nakazato
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; the version accepted for publication (with the new title)
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 114 (2005) 523-531
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411193
abstract: A simple scheme to prepare an entanglement between two separated qubits from a given mixed state is proposed. A single qubit (entanglement mediator) is repeatedly made to interact locally and consecutively with the two qubits through rotating-wave couplings and is then measured. It is shown that we need to repeat this kind of process only three times to establish a maximally entangled state directly from an arbitrary initial mixed state, with no need to prepare the state of the qubits in advance or to rearrange the setup step by step. Furthermore, the maximum yield realizable with this scheme is compatible with the maximum entanglement, provided that the coupling constants are properly tuned.

id: quant-ph/0411194
title: Quantum Algorithm to Solve Satisfiability Problems
authors: Wenjin Mao
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Extended version is published on Phys. Rev. A 72, 052316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411194
abstract: A new quantum algorithm is proposed to solve Satisfiability(SAT) problems by taking advantage of non-unitary transformation in ground state quantum computer. The energy gap scale of the ground state quantum computer is analyzed for 3-bit Exact Cover problems. The time cost of this algorithm on general SAT problems is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411195
title: Scheme for deterministic Bell-state-measurement-free quantum teleportation
authors: Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 2 (2006) 341-346
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411195
abstract: A deterministic teleportation scheme for unknown atomic states is proposed in cavity QED. The Bell state measurement is not needed in the teleportation process, and the success probability can reach 1.0. In addition, the current scheme is insensitive to the cavity decay and thermal field.

id: quant-ph/0411196
title: Behaviour of the wave function near the origin in the radial case
authors: Andre Martin
comments: Dedicated to the memory of Laurent Schwartz
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411196
abstract: We give one more proof in two and three space dimensions that the irregular solution of the Schrodinger equation, for zero angular momentum, is in fact the solution of an equation containing an extra 'delta function'. We propose another criterium to eliminate the irregular solution which is to require the validity of the virial theorem of which we give a general proof in the classical and quantum cases.

id: quant-ph/0411197
title: Spin & Statistics in Nonrelativistic Quantum Mechanics, II
authors: Bernd Kuckert, Jens Mund
comments: 1 figure
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 309 - 311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411197
abstract: Recently a sufficient and necessary condition for Pauli's spin- statistics connection in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics has been established [quant-ph/0208151]. The two-dimensional part of this result is extended to n-particle systems and reformulated and further simplified in a more geometric language.

id: quant-ph/0411198
title: A new strategy to find bound states in anharmonic oscillators
authors: Francisco J. Gomez, Javier Sesma
comments: A cotribution to a book dedicated to Prof. Alberto Galindo, on occasion of his seventieth birthday
journal: in Fundamental Physics Meeting "Alberto Galindo", R. F. Alvarez-Estrada, A. Dobado, L. A. Fernandez, M. A. Martin-Delgado, A. Munoz Sudupe (Eds.). Aula Documental de Investigacion, Madrid, 2004, pp. 253-261
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411198
abstract: A very simple procedure to calculate eigenenergies of quantum anharmonic oscillators is presented. The method, exact but for numerical computations, consists merely in requiring the vanishing of the Wronskian of two solutions which are regular respectively at the origin and at infinity. The first one can be represented by its series expansion; for the second one, an asymptotic expansion is available. The procedure is illustrated by application to quartic and sextic oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0411199
title: Path Integration on Darboux Spaces
authors: Christian Grosche
comments: 48 pages, 3 Tables In revised version typos corrected
journal: Phys.Part.Nucl. 37 (2006) 368-389
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411199
abstract: In this paper the Feynman path integral technique is applied to two-dimensional spaces of non-constant curvature: these spaces are called Darboux spaces $\DI$--$\DIV$. We start each consideration in terms of the metric and then analyze the quantum theory in the separable coordinate systems. The path integral in each case is formulated and then solved in the majority of cases, the exceptions being quartic oscillators where no closed solution is known. The required ingredients are the path integral solutions of the linear potential, the harmonic oscillator, the radial harmonic oscillator, the modified P\"oschl--Teller potential, and for spheroidal wave-functions, respectively. The basic path integral solutions, which appear here in a complicated way, have been developed in recent work and are known. The final solutions are represented in terms of the corresponding Green's functions and the expansions into the wave-functions, respectively. We also sketch some limiting cases of the Darboux spaces, where spaces of constant negative and zero curvature emerge.

id: quant-ph/0411200
title: Inefficiency and classical communication bounds for conversion between partially entangled pure bipartite states
authors: Ben Fortescue, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: Revised version: 8 pages, 3 figures, two-column. Have added bounds for general pure states, corrected typos and updated format to PRA version
journal: Phys. Rev. A *72*, 032336 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411200
abstract: We derive lower limits on the inefficiency and classical communication costs of dilution between two-term bipartite pure states that are partially entangled. We first calculate explicit relations between the allowable error and classical communication costs of entanglement dilution using the protocol of Lo-Popescu and then consider a two-stage dilution from singlets with this protocol followed by some unknown protocol for conversion between partially entangled states. Applying the lower bounds on classical communication and inefficiency of Harrow-Lo and Hayden-Winter to this two-stage protocol, we derive bounds for the unknown protocol. In addition we derive analogous (but looser) bounds for general pure states.

id: quant-ph/0411201
title: A model of quantum reduction with decoherence
authors: Roland Omnes
comments: 20 pages. To be published in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 065011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411201
abstract: The problem of reduction (wave packet reduction) is reexamined under two simple conditions: Reduction is a last step completing decoherence. It acts in commonplace circumstances and should be therefore compatible with the mathematical frame of quantum field theory and the standard model. These conditions lead to an essentially unique model for reduction. Consistency with renormalization and time-reversal violation suggest however a primary action in the vicinity of Planck's length. The inclusion of quantum gravity and the uniqueness of space-time point moreover to generalized quantum theory, first proposed by Gell-Mann and Hartle, as a convenient framework for developing this model into a more complete theory.

id: quant-ph/0411202
title: Characteristic parameters and dynamics of two-qubit system in self-assembled monolayers
authors: Zilvinas Rinkevicius, Gennady P. Berman, David. L. Allara, Vladimir I. Tsifrinovich, Sergei Tretiak
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411202
abstract: We suggest the application of nitronylnitroxide substituted with methyl group and 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidin organic radicals as 1/2-spin qubits for self-assembled monolayer quantum devices. We show that the oscillating cantilever driven adiabatic reversals technique can provide the read-out of the spin states. We compute components of the $g$-tensor and dipole-dipole interaction tensor for these radicals. We show that the delocalization of the spin in the radical may significantly influence the dipole-dipole interaction between the spins.

id: quant-ph/0411203
title: Finite Quantum Kinematics of the Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Mohsen Shiri-Garakani, David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: Based on Ph.D. thesis of Mohsen Shiri-Garakani
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411203
abstract: Arbitrarily small changes in the commutation relations suffice to transform the usual singular quantum theories into regular quantum theories. This process is an extension of canonical quantization that we call general quantization. Here we apply general quantization to the time-independent linear harmonic oscillator. The unstable Heisenberg group becomes the stable group SO(3). This freezes out the zero-point energy of very soft or very hard oscillators, like those responsible for the infrared or ultraviolet divergencies of usual field theories, without much changing the medium oscillators. It produces pronounced violations of equipartition and of the usual uncertainty relations for soft or hard oscillators,and interactions between the previously uncoupled excitation quanta of the oscillator, weakly attractive for medium quanta, strongly repulsive for soft or hard quanta.

id: quant-ph/0411204
title: Robust Quantum Algorithms for Oracle Identification
authors: Andris Ambainis, Kazuo Iwama, Akinori Kawachi, Rudy Raymond, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: Presentation is improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411204
abstract: The oracle identification problem (OIP) was introduced by Ambainis et al. \cite{AIKMRY04}. It is given as a set $S$ of $M$ oracles and a blackbox oracle $f$. Our task is to figure out which oracle in $S$ is equal to the blackbox $f$ by making queries to $f$. OIP includes several problems such as the Grover Search as special cases. In this paper, we improve the algorithms in \cite{AIKMRY04} by providing a mostly optimal upper bound of query complexity for this problem: ($i$) For any oracle set $S$ such that $|S| \le 2^{N^d}$ ($d < 1$), we design an algorithm whose query complexity is $O(\sqrt{N\log{M}/\log{N}})$, matching the lower bound proved in \cite{AIKMRY04}. ($ii$) Our algorithm also works for the range between $2^{N^d}$ and $2^{N/\log{N}}$ (where the bound becomes O(N)), but the gap between the upper and lower bounds worsens gradually. ($iii$) Our algorithm is robust, namely, it exhibits the same performance (up to a constant factor) against the noisy oracles as also shown in the literatures \cite{AC02,BNRW03,HMW03} for special cases of OIP.

id: quant-ph/0411205
title: Classical simulation of quantum algorithms using the tensor product representation
authors: A. Kawaguchi, K. Shimizu, Y. Tokura, N. Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411205
abstract: Using the tensor product representation in the density matrix renormalization group, we show that a quantum circuit of Grover's algorithm, which has one-qubit unitary gates, generalized Toffoli gates, and projective measurements, can be efficiently simulated by a classical computer. It is possible to simulate quantum circuits with several ten qubits.

id: quant-ph/0411206
title: Constructing arbitrary Steane code single logical qubit fault-tolerant gates
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Much shorter version containing only the results still relevant to the field
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11, 867-873 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411206
abstract: We present a simple method for constructing optimal fault-tolerant approximations of arbitrary unitary gates using an arbitrary discrete universal gate set. The method presented is numerical and scales exponentially with the number of gates used in the approximation. However, for the specific case of arbitrary single-qubit gates and the fault-tolerant gates permitted by the concatenated 7-qubit Steane code, we find gate sequences sufficiently long and accurate to permit the fault-tolerant factoring of numbers thousands of bits long. A general scaling law of how rapidly these fault-tolerant approximations converge to arbitrary single-qubit gates is also determined.

id: quant-ph/0411207
title: On Disagreement about Nonperturbative Corrections in Triple-well Potential
authors: Masatoshi Sato, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 15 pages, no figures; Section IV rewritten, Refs. added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A 20 (2005) 881-896
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411207
abstract: We examine in detail nonperturbative corrections for low lying energies of a symmetric triple-well potential with non-equivalent vacua, for which there have been disagreement about asymptotic formulas and controversy over the validity of the dilute gas approximation. We carry out investigations from various points of view, including not only a numerical comparison of the nonperturbative corrections with the exact values but also the prediction of the large order behavior of the perturbation series, consistency with the perturbative corrections, and comparison with the WKB approximation. We show that all the results support our formula previously obtained from the valley method calculation beyond the dilute gas approximation.

id: quant-ph/0411208
title: Non-Markovian Particle Dynamics in Continuously Controlled Quantum Gases
authors: D. Ivanov, S. Wallentowitz
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411208
abstract: For a quantum gas, being subject to continuous feedback of a macroscopic observable, the single-particle dynamics is studied. Albeit feedback-induced particle correlations, it is shown that analytic solutions are obtained by formally extending the single-particle Hilbert space by an auxiliary degree of freedom. The particle's motion is then fed by colored noise, which effectively maps quantum-statistical correlations onto the single particle. Thus, the single particle in the continuously controlled gas follows a non-Markovian trajectory in phase-space.

id: quant-ph/0411209
title: Multipartite secure state distribution
authors: W. D¨¹r, J. Calsamiglia, H.-J. Briegel
comments: V2: Replaced with published version: title changed, 2 figures added, presentation improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042336 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411209
abstract: We introduce the distribution of a secret multipartite entangled state in a real-world scenario as a quantum primitive. We show that in the presence of noisy quantum channels (and noisy control operations) any state chosen from the set of two-colorable graph states (CSS codewords) can be created with high fidelity while it remains unknown to all parties. This is accomplished by either blind multipartite entanglement purification, which we introduce in this paper, or by multipartite entanglement purification of enlarged states, which offers advantages over an alternative scheme based on standard channel purification and teleportation. The parties are thus provided with a secret resource of their choice for distributed secure applications.

id: quant-ph/0411210
title: Finite dimensional quantizations of the (q,p) plane : new space and momentum inequalities
authors: Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Fran?ois-Xavier Josse-Michaux, Pascal Monceau
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 20, 11/13 (2006) 1778 - 1791
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411210
abstract: We present a N-dimensional quantization a la Berezin-Klauder or frame quantization of the complex plane based on overcomplete families of states (coherent states) generated by the N first harmonic oscillator eigenstates. The spectra of position and momentum operators are finite and eigenvalues are equal, up to a factor, to the zeros of Hermite polynomials. From numerical and theoretical studies of the large $N$ behavior of the product $\lambda\_m(N) \lambda\_M(N)$ of non null smallest positive and largest eigenvalues, we infer the inequality $\delta\_N(Q) \Delta\_N(Q) = \sigma\_N \overset{<}{\underset{N \to \infty}{\to}} 2 \pi$ (resp. $\delta\_N(P) \Delta\_N(P) = \sigma\_N \overset{<}{\underset{N \to \infty}{\to}} 2 \pi $) involving, in suitable units, the minimal ($\delta\_N(Q)$) and maximal ($\Delta\_N(Q)$) sizes of regions of space (resp. momentum) which are accessible to exploration within this finite-dimensional quantum framework. Interesting issues on the measurement process and connections with the finite Chern-Simons matrix model for the Quantum Hall effect are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0411211
title: Frequency Measurement of an Ar+ Laser Stabilized on Narrow Lines of Molecular Iodine at 501.7 nm
authors: Frederic Du Burck, Christophe Daussy, Anne Amy-Klein, Andrei N. Goncharov, Olivier Lopez, Christian Chardonnet, Jean-Pierre Wallerand
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411211
abstract: A spectrometer for ultra high-resolution spectroscopy of molecular iodine at wave length 501.7 nm, near the dissociation limit is described. Line shapes about 30 kHz wide (HWHM) were obtained using saturation spectroscopy in a pumped cell. The frequency of an Ar+ laser was locked to a hyperfine component of the R(26)62-0 transition and the first absolute frequency measurement of this line is reported.

id: quant-ph/0411212
title: On "Inconsistency in the Application of the Adiabatic Theorem"
authors: Zhaoyan Wu, Li Zheng, Hui Yang
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411212
abstract: It is shown where the proof of "inconsistency in the application of the adiabatic theorem" goes wrong.

id: quant-ph/0411213
title: Elementary Operations
authors: James Baugh, Andrei Galiautdinov, David Ritz Finkelstein, Mohsen Shiri-Garakani, Heinrich Saller
comments: Based on a talk given at the 5th International Quantum Structure Association Conference, Cesena, Italy, 2001.To be published in the International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411213
abstract: A Clifford algebra over the binary field 2 = {0,1} is a second-order classical logic that is substantially richer than Boolean algebra. We use it as a bridge to a Clifford algebraic quantum logic that is richer than the usual Hilbert space quantum logic and admits iteration. This leads to a higher-order Clifford-algebraic logic. We formulate a toy Dirac equation with this logic. It isexactly Lorentz-invariant, yet it approximates the usual Dirac equation as closely as desired and all its variables have finite spectra. It is worth considering as a Lorentz-invariant improvement on lattice space-times.

id: cond-mat/0411004
title: The simplest quantum model supporting the Kibble-Zurek mechanism of topological defect production: Landau-Zener transitions from a new perspective
authors: Bogdan Damski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2005). Many improvements introduced, major conclusions stay the same
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 95 (2005) 035701
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411004
abstract: It is shown that dynamics of the Landau-Zener model can be accurately described in terms of the Kibble-Zurek theory of the topological defect production in nonequilibrium phase transitions. The simplest quantum model exhibiting the Kibble-Zurek mechanism is presented. A new intuitive description of Landau-Zener dynamics is found.

id: cond-mat/0411007
title: Resolving the order parameter of High-T$_{c}$ Superconductors through quantum pumping spectroscopy
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, Manuscript revised with new material on d+id' case
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 174512 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411007
abstract: The order parameter of High-T$_{c}$ superconductors through a series of experiments has been quite conclusively demonstrated to not be of the normal $s-wave$ type. It is either a pure $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$-wave type or a mixture of a $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}-wave$ with a small imaginary $s-wave$ or $d_{xy}-wave$ component. In this work a distinction is brought out among the four types, i.e., $s- wave$, $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}- wave$, $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}+is - wave$ and $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}+id_{xy}- wave$ types with the help of quantum pumping spectroscopy. This involves a normal metal double barrier structure in contact with a High-T$_{c}$ superconductor. The pumped current, heat and noise show different characteristics with change in order parameter revealing quite easily the differences among these.

id: cond-mat/0411012
title: Spin-Based Quantum Dot Quantum Computing
authors: Xuedong Hu
comments: 29-page review submitted to the Lecture Notes of Physics by Springer
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411012
abstract: We present a brief overview of the current theoretical and experimental progresses in the study of quantum dot-based quantum computing schemes, then focus on the spin-based varieties, which are generally regarded as the most scalable because of the relatively long coherence times of electron and nuclear spins. Reviewed topics include spin coherence, spin interaction, spin detection, and the current status of the experimental studies of spin-based quantum computing.

id: cond-mat/0411057
title: A Fully Quantum Mechanical Model of a SQUID Ring Coupled to an Electromagnetic Field
authors: M. J. Everitt, P. B. Stiffell, T. D. Clark, A. Vourdas, J. F. Ralph, H. Prance, R. J. Prance
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures. Uploaded as implementing a policy of arXiving old papers
journal: Phys. Rev. B 63, 144530 (2001)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411057
abstract: A quantum system comprising of a monochromatic electromagnetic field coupled to a SQUID ring with sinusoidal non-linearity, is studied. A magnetostatic flux $\Phi_{x}$ is also threading the SQUID ring, and is used to control the coupling between the two systems. It is shown that for special values of $\Phi_{x}$ the system is strongly coupled. The time evolution of the system is studied. It is shown that exchange of energy takes place between the two modes and that the system becomes entangled. A second quasi-classical model that treats the electromagnetic field classically is also studied. A comparison between the fully quantum mechanical model with the electromagnetic field initially in a coherent state and the quasi-classical model, is made.

id: cond-mat/0411115
title: Quantum Statistics and Entanglement of Two Electromagnetic Field Modes Coupled via a Mesoscopic SQUID Ring
authors: M. J. Everitt, T. D. Clark, P. Stiffell, H. Prance, R.J. Prance, A. Vourdas, J. F. Ralph
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures, Uploaded as implementing a policy of arXiving old papers
journal: Phys. Rev. B 64, 184517 (2001)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411115
abstract: In this paper we investigate the behaviour of a fully quantum mechanical system consisting of a mesoscopic SQUID ring coupled to one or two electromagnetic field modes. We show that we can use a static magnetic flux threading the SQUID ring to control the transfer of energy, the entanglement and the statistical properties of the fields coupled to the ring. We also demonstrate that at, and around, certain values of static flux the effective coupling between the components of the system is large. The position of these regions in static flux is dependent on the energy level structure of the ring and the relative field mode frequencies, In these regions we find that the entanglement of states in the coupled system, and the energy transfer between its components, is strong.

id: cond-mat/0411154
title: Split-step Fourier methods for the Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 3 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) L179
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411154
abstract: We perform a systematic study of the accuracy of split-step Fourier transform methods for the time dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation using symbolic calculation. Provided the most recent approximation for the wave function is always used in the nonlinear atom-atom interaction potential energy, every split-step algorithm we have tried has the same-order time stepping error for the Gross-Pitaevskii equation and the Schroedinger equation.

id: cond-mat/0411166
title: Integrable multi atom matter-radiation models without rotating wave approximation
authors: Anjan Kundu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411166
abstract: Interacting matter-radiation models close to physical systems are proposed, which without rotating wave approximation and with matter-matter interactions are Bethe ansatz solvable. This integrable system is constructed from the elliptic Gaudin model at high spin limit, where radiative excitation can be included perturbatively.

id: cond-mat/0411171
title: Cooperative effects in Josephson junctions in a cavity in the strong coupling regime
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Version accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 174513 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411171
abstract: We analyze the behavior of systems of two and three qubits made by Josephson junctions, treated in the two level approximation, driven by a radiation mode in a cavity. The regime we consider is a strong coupling one recently experimentally reached for a single junction. Rabi oscillations are obtained with the frequency proportional to integer order Bessel functions in the limit of a large photon number, similarly to the case of the single qubit. A selection rule is derived for the appearance of Rabi oscillations. A quantum amplifier built with a large number of Josephson junctions in a cavity in the strong coupling regime is also described.

id: cond-mat/0411176
title: Partition Functions for Statistical Mechanics With MicroPartitions and Phase Transitions
authors: Ajay Patwardhan
comments: 13 pages, no figures. email id ajay@imsc.res.in
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411176
abstract: The fundamentals of Statistical Mechanics require a fresh definition in the context of the developments in Classical Mechanics of integrable and chaotic systems. This is done with the introduction of Micro Partitions ; a union of disjoint components in phase space. Partition functions including the invariants, Kolmogorov Entropy and Euler number are introduced. The ergodic hypothesis for partial ergodicity is discussed. In the context of Quantum Mechanics the presence of symmetry groups with irreducible representations gives rise to degenerate and non degenerate spectrum for the Hamiltonian. Quantum Statistical Mechanics is formulated including these two cases ; by including the multiplicity dimension of the group representation and the Casimir invariants into the Partition function. The possibility of new kinds of phase transitions is discussed. The occurence of systems with non simply connected configuration spaces and Quantum Mechanics for them, also requires a possible generalisation of Statistical Mechanics. The developments of Quantum pure, mixed, and entangled states has made it neccessary to understand the Statistical Mechanics of the multipartite N particle system. And to obtain in terms of the density matrices, written in energy basis, the Trace of the Gibbs operator as the Partition function and use it to get statistical averages of operators. There are some issues of definition, interpretation and application that are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0411228
title: Phase-matched four wave mixing and quantum beam splitting of matter waves in a periodic potential
authors: Karen Marie Hilligs?e, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411228
abstract: We show that the dispersion properties imposed by an external periodic potential ensure both energy and quasi-momentum conservation such that correlated pairs of atoms can be generated by four wave mixing from a Bose-Einstein condensate moving in an optical lattice potential. In our numerical solution of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, a condensate with initial quasi-momentum k_0 is transferred almost completely (>95%) into a pair of correlated atomic components with quasi-momenta k_1 and k_2, if the system is seeded with a smaller number of atoms with the appropriate quasi-momentum k_1.

id: cond-mat/0411235
title: Entanglement transfer from electron spins to photons in spin light-emitting diodes containing quantum dots
authors: Veronica Cerletti, Oliver Gywat, Daniel Loss
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: Extended scheme, revised version. v3: Minor additions and extended title, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 115316 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411235
abstract: We show that electron recombination using positively charged excitons in single quantum dots provides an efficient method to transfer entanglement from electron spins onto photon polarizations. We propose a scheme for the production of entangled four-photon states of GHZ type. From the GHZ state, two fully entangled photons can be obtained by a measurement of two photons in the linear polarization basis, even for quantum dots with observable fine structure splitting for neutral excitons and significant exciton spin decoherence. Because of the interplay of quantum mechanical selection rules and interference, maximally entangled electron pairs are converted into maximally entangled photon pairs with unity fidelity for a continuous set of observation directions. We describe the dynamics of the conversion process using a master-equation approach and show that the implementation of our scheme is feasible with current experimental techniques.

id: cond-mat/0411245
title: Fabrication of single nickel-nitrogen defects in diamond by chemical vapor deposition
authors: J. R. Rabeau, Y. L. Chin, S. Prawer, F. Jelezko, T. Gaebel, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 86, 131926 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411245
abstract: Fabrication of single nickel-nitrogen (NE8) defect centers in diamond by chemical vapor deposition is demonstrated. Under continuous-wave 745 nm laser excitation single defects were induced to emit single photon pulses at 797 nm with a linewidth of 1.5 nm at room temperature. Photon antibunching of single centers was demonstrated using a Hanbury-Brown and Twiss interferometer. Confocal images revealed approximately 10^6 optically active sites/cm^2 in the synthesized films. The fabrication of an NE8 based single photon source in synthetic diamond is important for fiber based quantum cryptography. It can also be used as an ideal point-like source for near-field optical microscopy.

id: cond-mat/0411249
title: Diamond chemical vapor deposition on optical fibers for fluorescence waveguiding
authors: J. R. Rabeau, S. T. Huntington, A. D. Greentree, S. Prawer
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 134104 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411249
abstract: A technique has been developed for depositing diamond crystals on the endfaces of optical fibers and capturing the fluorescence generated by optically active defects in the diamond into the fiber. This letter details the diamond growth on optical fibers and transmission of fluorescence through the fiber from the nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) color center in diamond. Control of the concentration of defects incorporated during the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) growth process is also demonstrated. These are the first critical steps in developing a fiber coupled single photon source based on optically active defect centers in diamond.

id: cond-mat/0411302
title: Entanglement Production under Collective Radiation
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 23 pages
journal: Laser Phys. 14 (2004) 1403-1414
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411302
abstract: The relation is studied between the entanglement production and collective radiation by an ensemble of atoms. Entanglement production is quantified by means of a general measure introduced earlier by the author. Primary emphasis is placed on the entanglement generated by pseudospin density matrices. The problem of collective atomic radiation can be described by the pseudospin evolution equations. These equations define the evolutional entanglement generated by the related density matrices. Under conditions of superradiant emission, the entanglement production exhibits sharp peaks at the delay time, where the intensity of radiation is maximal. The possibility of regulating the occurrence of such peaks by punctuated superradiance is discussed, which suggests the feasibility of {\it punctuated entanglement production}.

id: cond-mat/0411365
title: Super and Sub-Poissonian photon statistics for single molecule spectroscopy
authors: Yong He, Eli Barkai
comments: 14 Phys. Rev style pages, 10 figures
journal: J. of Chemical Physics Vol. 122 p. 184703 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411365
abstract: We investigate the distribution of the number of photons emitted by a single molecule undergoing a spectral diffusion process and interacting with a continuous wave laser field. The spectral diffusion is modeled based on a stochastic approach, in the spirit of the Anderson-Kubo line shape theory. Using a generating function formalism we solve the generalized optical Bloch equations, and obtain an exact analytical formula for the line shape and Mandel's Q parameter. The line shape exhibits well known behaviors, including motional narrowing when the stochastic modulation is fast, and power broadening. The Mandel parameter, describing the line shape fluctuations, exhibits a transition from a Quantum sub-Poissonian behavior in the fast modulation limit, to a classical super-Poissonian behavior found in the slow modulation limit. Our result is applicable for weak and strong laser field, namely for arbitrary Rabi frequency. We show how to choose the Rabi frequency in such a way that the Quantum sub-Poissonian nature of the emission process becomes strongest. A lower bound on $Q$ is found, and simple limiting behaviors are investigated. A non-trivial behavior is obtained in the intermediate modulation limit, when the time scales for spectral diffusion and the life time of the excited state, become similar. A comparison is made between our results, and previous ones derived based on the semi-classical generalized Wiener--Khintchine theorem.

id: cond-mat/0411380
title: Low-bandwidth control scheme for an oscillator stabilized Josephson qubit
authors: R. H. Koch, J. R. Rozen, G. A. Keefe, F. M. Milliken, C. C. Tsuei, J. R. Kirtley, D. P. DiVincenzo
comments: 5 pages, pdflatex
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411380
abstract: We introduce a new Josephson junction circuit for which quantum operations are realized by low-bandwidth, nearly adiabatic magnetic-flux pulses. Coupling to the fundamental mode of a superconducting transmission line permits a stabilization of the rotation angle of the quantum operation against flux noise. A complete scheme for one-qubit rotations, and high-visibility Ramsey-fringe oscillations, is given. We show that high visibility depends on passing through a portal in the space of applied fluxes, where the width of the portal is proportional to the ramp-up rate of the flux pulse.

id: cond-mat/0411388
title: Signatures of macroscopic quantum coherence in ultracold dilute Fermi gases
authors: Roberto Onofrio, Carlo Presilla
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 70, 043608 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411388
abstract: We propose a double-well configuration for optical trapping of ultracold two-species Fermi-Bose atomic mixtures. Two signatures of macroscopic quantum coherence attributable to a superfluid phase transition for the Fermi gas are analyzed. The first signature is based upon tunneling of Fermi pairs when the power of the deconfining laser beam is significantly reduced. The second relies on the observation of interference fringes in a regime where the fermions are trapped in two sharply separated minima of the potential. Both signatures rely on small decoherence times for the Fermi samples, which should be possible by reaching low temperatures using a Bose gas as a refrigerator, and a bichromatic optical dipole trap for confinement, with optimal heat-capacity matching between the two species.

id: cond-mat/0411439
title: Entangled quantum currents in distant mesoscopic Josephson junctions
authors: D. I. Tsomokos, C. C. Chong, A. Vourdas
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, two-column format; to appear in J. Phys.: Condens. Matt
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 16 (2004) 9169-9180
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411439
abstract: Two mesoscopic SQUID rings which are far from each other, are considered. A source of two-mode nonclassical microwaves irradiates the two rings with correlated photons. The Josephson currents are in this case quantum mechanical operators, and their expectation values with respect to the density matrix of the microwaves, yield the experimentally observed currents. Classically correlated (separable) and quantum mechanically correlated (entangled) microwaves are considered, and their effect on the Josephson currents is quantified. Results for two different examples that involve microwaves in number states and coherent states are derived. It is shown that the quantum statistics of the tunnelling electron pairs through the Josephson junctions in the two rings, are correlated.

id: cond-mat/0411517
title: Shape resonances for ultracold atom gases in carbon nanotube waveguides
authors: V. Peano, M. Thorwart, C. Mora, R. Egger
comments: 4 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411517
abstract: We propose an experimentally viable setup for the realization of one-dimensional ultracold atom gases in a nanoscale magnetic waveguide formed by two doubly-clamped suspended carbon nanotubes. All common decoherence and atom loss mechanisms are shown to be small. We discuss general consequences of a non-parabolic confinement potential, in particular novel two-body shape resonances, which could be observed in this trap.

id: cond-mat/0411535
title: Voltage-controlled coded qubit based on electron spin
authors: Pawel Hawrylak, Marek Korkusinski
comments: 11 pages + 3 figures
journal: Solid State Communications, vol. 136, pp. 508-512 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411535
abstract: We design and analyze a solid state qubit based on electron spin and controlled by electrical means. The coded qubit is composed of a three-electron complex in three tunable gated quantum dots. The two logical states of a qubit, |0L> and |1L>, reside in a degenerate subspace of total spin S=1/2 states. We demonstrate how applying voltages to specific gates changes the one-electron properties of the structure, and show how electron-electron interaction translates these changes into the manipulation of the two lowest energy states of the three-electron complex.

id: cond-mat/0411555
title: Coherent Backscattering with Nonlinear Atomic Scatterers
authors: T. Wellens, B. Gremaud, D. Delande, C. Miniatura
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411555
abstract: We study coherent backscattering of a quasi-monochromatic laser by a dilute gas of cold two-level atoms. We consider the perturbative regime of weak intensities, where nonlinear effects arise from {\em inelastic} two-photon scattering processes. Here, coherent backscattering can be formed by interference between {\em three} different scattering amplitudes. Consequently, if elastically scattered photons are filtered out from the photodetection signal by means of suitable frequency-selective detection, we find the nonlinear backscattering enhancement factor to exceed the linear barrier two.

id: cond-mat/0411560
title: Optimal cooling strategies for magnetically trapped atomic Fermi-Bose mixtures
authors: Michael Brown-Hayes, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 70, 063614 (2004)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411560
abstract: We discuss cooling efficiency for different-species Fermi-Bose mixtures in magnetic traps. A better heat capacity matching between the two atomic species is achieved by a proper choice of the Bose cooler and the magnetically trappable hyperfine states of the mixture. When a partial spatial overlap between the two species is also taken into account, the deepest Fermi degeneracy is obtained for an optimal value of the trapping frequency ratio. This can be achieved by assisting the magnetic trap with a deconfining light beam, as shown in the case of fermionic 6Li mixed with 23Na, 87Rb, and 133Cs, with optimal conditions found for the not yet explored 6Li-87Rb mixture.

id: cond-mat/0411581
title: Two spin measurements in exchange interaction quantum computers
authors: S. D. Barrett, T. M. Stace
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411581
abstract: We propose and analyse a method for single shot measurement of the total spin of a two electron system in a coupled quantum dot or donor impurity structure, which can be used for readout in a quantum computer. The spin can be inferred by observing spin dependent fluctuations of charge between the two sites, via a nearby electrometer. Realistic experimental parameters indicate that the fidelity of the measurement can be larger than 0.9999 with existing or near-future technology.

id: cond-mat/0411613
title: Exact results on spin dynamics and multiple quantum dynamics in alternating spin-1/2 chains with XY-Hamiltonian at high temperatures
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, M.G. Rudavets
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: JETP Letters V81 N2 (2005) pp. 47-52
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411613
abstract: We extend the picture of a transfer of nuclear spin-1/2 polarization along a homogeneous one-dimensional chain with the XY-Hamiltonian to the inhomogeneous chain with alternating nearest neighbour couplings and alternating Larmor frequencies. To this end, we calculate exactly the spectrum of the spin-1/2 XY-Hamiltonian of the alternating chain with an odd number of sites. The exact spectrum of the XY-Hamiltonian is also applied to study the multiple quantum (MQ) NMR dynamics of the alternating spin-1/2 chain. MQ NMR spectra are shown to have the MQ coherences of zero and $\pm$ second orders just as in the case of a homogeneous chain. The intensities of the MQ coherences are calculated.

id: cond-mat/0411617
title: Squeezing of a nanomechanical resonator by quantum nondemolition measurement and feedback
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Keith Schwab, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 20 pages, 10 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 235407 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411617
abstract: We analyze squeezing of the nanoresonator state produced by periodic measurement of position by a quantum point contact or a single-electron transistor. The mechanism of squeezing is the stroboscopic quantum nondemolition measurement generalized to the case of continuous measurement by a weakly coupled detector. The magnitude of squeezing is calculated for the harmonic and stroboscopic modulations of measurement, taking into account detector efficiency and nanoresonator quality factor. We also analyze the operation of the quantum feedback, which prevents fluctuations of the wavepacket center due to measurement back-action. Verification of the squeezed state can be performed in almost the same way as its preparation; similar procedure can also be used for the force detection with sensitivity beyond the standard quantum limit.

id: cond-mat/0411640
title: Onsager's Inequality, the Landau-Feynman Ansatz and Superfluidity
authors: W. F. Wreszinski, M. A. da Silva Jr
comments: 28 pages, 2 figure, uses revtex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 6293-6310
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411640
abstract: We revisit an inequality due to Onsager, which states that the (quantum) liquid structure factor has an upper bound of the form (const.) x |k|, for not too large modulus of the wave vector k. This inequality implies the validity of the Landau criterion in the theory of superfluidity with a definite, nonzero critical velocity. We prove an auxiliary proposition for general Bose systems, together with which we arrive at a rigorous proof of the inequality for one of the very few soluble examples of an interacting Bose fluid, Girardeau's model. The latter proof demonstrates the importance of the thermodynamic limit of the structure factor, which must be taken initially at k different from 0. It also substantiates very well the heuristic density functional arguments, which are also shown to hold exactly in the limit of large wave-lengths. We also briefly discuss which features of the proof may be present in higher dimensions, as well as some open problems related to superfluidity of trapped gases.

id: cond-mat/0411712
title: Gaussian phase-space representations for fermions
authors: J. F. Corney, P. D. Drummond
comments: More references and examples. Much less mathematical material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 125112 (2006).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411712
abstract: We introduce a positive phase-space representation for fermions, using the most general possible multi-mode Gaussian operator basis. The representation generalizes previous bosonic quantum phase-space methods to Fermi systems. We derive equivalences between quantum and stochastic moments, as well as operator correspondences that map quantum operator evolution onto stochastic processes in phase space. The representation thus enables first-principles quantum dynamical or equilibrium calculations in many-body Fermi systems. Potential applications are to strongly interacting and correlated Fermi gases, including coherent behaviour in open systems and nanostructures described by master equations. Examples of an ideal gas and the Hubbard model are given, as well as a generic open system, in order to illustrate these ideas.

id: cond-mat/0411739
title: Rough surface scattering in many-mode conducting channels: Gradient versus amplitude scattering
authors: F.M.Izrailev, N.M.Makarov, M.Rendon
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Stat. Sol. (b) 242 (2005) 1224
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411739
abstract: We study the effect of surface scattering on transport properties in many-mode conducting channels (electron waveguides). Assuming a strong roughness of the surface profiles, we show that there are two independent control parameters that determine statistical properties of the scattering. The first parameter is the ratio of the amplitude of the roughness to the transverse width of the waveguide. The second one, which is typically omitted, is determined by the mean value of the derivative of the profile. This parameter may be large, thus leading to specific properties of scattering. Our results may be used in experimental realizations of the surface scattering of electron waves, as well as for other applications (e.g., for optical and microwave waveguides)

id: cond-mat/0411752
title: String and Membrane condensation on 3D lattices
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Paolo Zanardi, Xiao Gang Wen
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX4
journal: Phys.Rev.B72:035307,2005
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411752
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the general properties of lattice spin models that have string and/or membrane condensed ground states. We discuss the properties needed to define a string or membrane operator. We study three 3D spin models which lead to Z_2 gauge theory at low energies. All the three models are exactly soluble and produce topologically ordered ground states. The first model contains both closed-string and closed-membrane condensations. The second model contains closed-string condensation only. The ends of open-strings behave like fermionic particles. The third model also has condensations of closed membranes and closed strings. The ends of open strings are bosonic while the edges of open membranes are fermionic. The third model contains a new type of topological order.

id: cond-mat/0411755
title: Spin quantum computation in silicon nanostructures
authors: S. Das Sarma, Rogerio de Sousa, Xuedong Hu, Belita Koiller
comments: 14 pages. Review article submitted to Solid State Communications
journal: Solid State Communications 133, 737 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0411755
abstract: Proposed silicon-based quantum-computer architectures have attracted attention because of their promise for scalability and their potential for synergetically utilizing the available resources associated with the existing Si technology infrastructure. Electronic and nuclear spins of shallow donors (e.g. phosphorus) in Si are ideal candidates for qubits in such proposals because of their long spin coherence times due to their limited interactions with their environments. For these spin qubits, shallow donor exchange gates are frequently invoked to perform two-qubit operations. We discuss in this review a particularly important spin decoherence channel, and bandstructure effects on the exchange gate control. Specifically, we review our work on donor electron spin spectral diffusion due to background nuclear spin flip-flops, and how isotopic purification of silicon can significantly enhance the electron spin dephasing time. We then review our calculation of donor electron exchange coupling in the presence of degenerate silicon conduction band valleys. We show that valley interference leads to orders of magnitude variations in electron exchange coupling when donor configurations are changed on an atomic scale. These studies illustrate the substantial potential that donor electron/nuclear spins in silicon have as candidates for qubits and simultaneously the considerable challenges they pose. In particular, our work on spin decoherence through spectral diffusion points to the possible importance of isotopic purification in the fabrication of scalable solid state quantum computer architectures. We also provide a critical comparison between the two main proposed spin-based solid state quantum computer architectures, namely, shallow donor bound states in Si and localized quantum dot states in GaAs.

id: cs/0411076
title: Lower bounds on the Deterministic and Quantum Communication Complexity of Hamming Distance
authors: Andris Ambainis, William Gasarch, Aravind Srinavasan, Andrey Utis
comments: 12 pages, this version to appear in ACM Transactions on Computation Theory
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0411076
abstract: Alice and Bob want to know if two strings of length n are almost equal. That is, do they differ on \textit{at most} a bits? Let 0\leq a\leq n-1. We show that any deterministic protocol, as well as any error-free quantum protocol (C* version), for this problem requires at least n-2 bits of communication. We show the same bounds for the problem of determining if two strings differ in exactly a bits. We also prove a lower bound of n/2-1 for error-free Q* quantum protocols. Our results are obtained by lower-bounding the ranks of the appropriate matrices.

id: cs/0411094
title: On the existence of truly autonomic computing systems and the link with quantum computing
authors: Radhakrishnan Srinivasan, H. P. Raghunandan
comments: 13 pages (two-column, single-spaced), 2 figures. Section 4 and Appendix B (with a figure in each) added. Improved explanations given for the NAFL model of (hyper-) computation (Sec. 6) and for the failure of relativistic locality in NAFL (Appendix B)
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0411094
abstract: A theoretical model of truly autonomic computing systems (ACS), with infinitely many constraints, is proposed. An argument similar to Turing's for the unsolvability of the halting problem, which is permitted in classical logic, shows that such systems cannot exist. Turing's argument fails in the recently proposed non-Aristotelian finitary logic (NAFL), which permits the existence of ACS. NAFL also justifies quantum superposition and entanglement, which are essential ingredients of quantum algorithms, and resolves the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox in favour of quantum mechanics and non-locality. NAFL requires that the autonomic manager (AM) must be conceptually and architecturally distinct from the managed element, in order for the ACS to exist as a non-self-referential entity. Such a scenario is possible if the AM uses quantum algorithms and is protected from all problems by (unbreakable) quantum encryption, while the managed element remains classical. NAFL supports such a link between autonomic and quantum computing, with the AM existing as a metamathematical entity. NAFL also allows quantum algorithms to access truly random elements and thereby supports non-standard models of quantum (hyper-) computation that permit infinite parallelism.

id: gr-qc/0411069
title: From Einstein's 1905 Postulates to the Geometry of Flat Space-Time
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: A few typos and some obvious misstatements have been repaired. A reference has been added. 18 pages, 12 figures. To appear in Annalen der Physik (Leipzig) 14 (2005) [1-3], Special Topic Issue. Albert Einstein: His Work and His Impact
journal: Annalen Phys. 14 (2005) 1-3; Annalen Phys. 14 (2005) 103-114
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0411069
abstract: Minkowski diagrams in 1+1 dimensional flat space-time are given a strictly geometric derivation, directly from two gedanken experiments incorporating the principle of the constancy of the velocity of light and the principle of (special) relativity. Rectangles of photon trajectories play a central role in determining the simultaneity convention and in establishing the invariance of the interval.

id: gr-qc/0411100
title: Quantum Effect and Curvature Strength of Naked Singularities
authors: Umpei Miyamoto, Hideki Maeda, Tomohiro Harada
comments: 21 pages, 1 table, 3 figures. Final version to appear in Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.113:513-533,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0411100
abstract: There are many solutions to the Einstein field equations that demonstrate naked singularity (NS) formation after regular evolution. It is possible, however, that such a quantum effect as particle creation prevents NSs from forming. We investigate the relation between the curvature strength and the quantum effects of NSs in a very wide class of spherical dust collapse. Through a perturbative calculation, we find that if the NS is very strong, the quantum particle creation diverges as the Cauchy horizon is approached, while if the NS is very weak, the creation should be finite. In the context of cosmic censorship, strong NSs will be subjected to the backreaction of quantum effects and may disappear or be hidden behind horizons, while weak NSs will not.

id: hep-th/0411008
title: Black Hole Thermodynamics from Near-Horizon Conformal Quantum Mechanics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 16 pages. Sections 2 and 3 and sections 4 and 5 of version 1 were merged and reduced; a few typos were corrected. The original central results and equations remain unchanged
journal: Phys.Rev.D71:104029,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411008
abstract: The thermodynamics of black holes is shown to be directly induced by their near-horizon conformal invariance. This behavior is exhibited using a scalar field as a probe of the black hole gravitational background, for a general class of metrics in D spacetime dimensions (with $D \geq 4$). The ensuing analysis is based on conformal quantum mechanics, within a hierarchical near-horizon expansion. In particular, the leading conformal behavior provides the correct quantum statistical properties for the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy, with the near-horizon physics governing the thermodynamic properties from the outset. Most importantly: (i) this treatment reveals the emergence of holographic properties; (ii) the conformal coupling parameter is shown to be related to the Hawking temperature; and (iii) Schwarzschild-like coordinates, despite their ``coordinate singularity,''can be used self-consistently to describe the thermodynamics of black holes.

id: hep-th/0411015
title: Generalised Complex Geometry and the Planck Cone
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A21:1189-1197,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411015
abstract: Complex geometry and symplectic geometry are mirrors in string theory. The recently developed generalised complex geometry interpolates between the two of them. On the other hand, the classical and quantum mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom are respectively described by a symplectic structure and a complex structure on classical phase space. In this letter we analyse the role played by generalised complex geometry in the classical and quantum mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom. We identify generalised complex geometry as an appropriate geometrical setup for dualities. The latter are interpreted as transformations connecting points in the interior of the Planck cone with points in the exterior, and viceversa. The Planck cone bears some resemblance with the relativistic light-cone. However the latter cannot be traversed by physical particles, while dualities do connect the region outside the Planck cone with the region inside, and viceversa.

id: hep-th/0411029
title: Heat kernel coefficients for compact fuzzy spaces
authors: Naoki Sasakura
comments: Minor changes, 8 pages, 12 figures, LaTeX, JHEPclass
journal: JHEP0412:009,2004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411029
abstract: I discuss the trace of a heat kernel Tr[e^(-tA)] for compact fuzzy spaces. In continuum theory its asymptotic expansion for t -> +0 provides geometric quantities, and therefore may be used to extract effective geometric quantities for fuzzy spaces. For compact fuzzy spaces, however, an asymptotic expansion for t -> +0 is not appropriate because of their finiteness. It is shown that effective geometric quantities are found as coefficients of an approximate power-law expansion of the trace of a heat kernel valid for intermediate values of t. An efficient method to obtain these coefficients is presented and applied to some known fuzzy spaces to check its validity.

id: hep-th/0411095
title: Physical Fields in QED
authors: Othmar Steinmann
comments: 9 pages. Based on talk delivered at: "Symposium on Rigorous Quantum Field Theory", Saclay, July 2004
journal: Prog.Math.251:301-310,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411095
abstract: The connection between the Gupta-Bleuler formulation and the Coulomb gauge formulation of QED is discussed. It is argued that the two formulations are not connected by a gauge transformation. Nor can the state space of the Coulomb gauge be identified with a subspace of the Gupta-Bleuler space. Instead a more indirect connection between the two formulations via a detour through the Wightman reconstruction theorem is proposed.

id: hep-th/0411138
title: Gauge invariant counterparts and quantization of systems under holonomic constraints
authors: M. I. Krivoruchenko, Amand Faessler, A. A. Raduta, C. Fuchs
comments: 5 pages REVTeX, new references added
journal: Phys.Lett. B608 (2005) 164-170
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411138
abstract: Systems under holonomic constraints are classified within the generalized Hamiltonian framework as second-class constraints systems. We show that each system of point particles with holonomic constraints has a hidden gauge symmetry which allows to quantize it in the original phase space as a first-class constraints system. The proposed method is illustrated with quantization of a point particle moving on an $n-1$-dimensional sphere $S^{n-1}$ as well as its field theory analog the O(n) nonlinear sigma model.

id: hep-th/0411176
title: On quantum mechanics as constrained N=2 supersymmetric classical mechanics
authors: H.-T. Elze
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A335 (2005) 258-265
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411176
abstract: The Schr\"odinger equation is shown to be equivalent to a constrained Liouville equation under the assumption that phase space is extended to Grassmann algebra valued variables. For onedimensional systems, the underlying Hamiltonian dynamics has a N=2 supersymmetry. Potential applications to more realistic theories are briefly discussed.

id: hep-th/0411245
title: Existence of a Semiclassical Approximation in Loop Quantum Gravity
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Final version accepted for publication in General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.37:2239-2243,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0411245
abstract: We consider a spherical symmetric black hole in the Schwarzschild metric and apply Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization to determine the energy levels. The canonical partition function is then computed and we show that the entropy coincides with the Bekenstein-Hawking formula when the maximal number of states for the black hole is the same as computed in loop quantum gravity, proving in this case the existence of a semiclassical limit and obtaining an independent derivation of the Barbero-Immirzi parameter.

id: math-ph/0411005
title: Critical strength of attractive central potentials
authors: Fabian Brau, Monique Lassaut
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A37, 11243 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411005
abstract: We obtain several sequences of necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of bound states applicable to attractive (purely negative) central potentials. These conditions yields several sequences of upper and lower limits on the critical value, $g_{\rm{c}}^{(\ell)}$, of the coupling constant (strength), $g$, of the potential, $V(r)=-g v(r)$, for which a first $\ell$-wave bound state appears, which converges to the exact critical value.

id: math-ph/0411008
title: Sufficient conditions for the existence of bound states in a central potential
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. A37, 6687 (2004)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411008
abstract: We show how a large class of sufficient conditions for the existence of bound states, in non-positive central potentials, can be constructed. These sufficient conditions yield upper limits on the critical value, $g_{\rm{c}}^{(\ell)}$, of the coupling constant (strength), $g$, of the potential, $V(r)=-g v(r)$, for which a first $\ell$-wave bound state appears. These upper limits are significantly more stringent than hitherto known results.

id: math-ph/0411009
title: Lower bounds for the spinless Salpeter equation
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Contribution to a special issue of Journal of Nonlinear Mathematical Physics in honour of Francesco Calogero on the occasion of his seventieth birthday
journal: J.Nonlin.Math.Phys. 12 (2005) S86-S96
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411009
abstract: We obtain lower bounds on the ground state energy, in one and three dimensions, for the spinless Salpeter equation (Schr\"odinger equation with a relativistic kinetic energy operator) applicable to potentials for which the attractive parts are in $L^p(\R^n)$ for some $p>n$ ($n=1$ or 3). An extension to confining potentials, which are not in $L^p(\R^n)$, is also presented.

id: math-ph/0411028
title: Group classification of systems of non-linear reaction-diffusion equations with general diffusion matrix. II. Generalized Turing systems
authors: A. G. Nikitin
comments: The equivalence transformations are indicated in more clear form, misprints are corrected
journal: J.Math.Anal.Appl. V. 332 No 1, pp. 666-690, 2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411028
abstract: Group classification of systems of two coupled nonlinear reaction-diffusion equation with a diagonal diffusion matrix is carried out. Symmetries of diffusion systems with singular diffusion matrix and additional first order derivative terms are described.

id: math-ph/0411036
title: Zeno product formula revisited
authors: Pavel Exner, Takashi Ichinose, Hagen Neidhardt, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: a revised version, to appear in Integral Equation and Operator Theory, LaTeX 2e, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411036
abstract: We introduce a new product formula which combines an orthogonal projection with a complex function of a non-negative operator. Under certain assumptions on the complex function the strong convergence of the product formula is shown. Under more restrictive assumptions even operator-norm convergence is verified. The mentioned formula can be used to describe Zeno dynamics in the situation when the usual non-decay measurement is replaced by a particular generalized observables in the sense of Davies.

id: math-ph/0411054
title: A relativistic model of the isotropic three-dimensional singular oscillator
authors: S.M. Nagiyev, E.I. Jafarov, R.M. Imanov, L. Homorodean
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A334:260-266,2005
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0411054
abstract: Exactly solvable model of the quantum isotropic three-dimensional singular oscillator in the relativistic configurational $\vec r$-space is proposed. We have found the radial wavefunctions, which are expressed through the continuous dual Hahn polynomials and energy spectrum for the model under consideration. It is shown that they have the correct non-relativistic limits.

id: math/0411143
title: Schr?dinger type eigenvalue problems with polynomial potentials: Asymptotics of eigenvalues
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: 31 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0411143
abstract: For integers $m\geq 3$ and $1\leq\ell\leq m-1$, we study the eigenvalue problem $-u^{\prime\prime}(z)+[(-1)^{\ell}(iz)^m-P(iz)]u(z)=\lambda u(z)$ with the boundary conditions that $u(z)$ decays to zero as $z$ tends to infinity along the rays $\arg z=-\frac{\pi}{2}\pm \frac{(\ell+1)\pi}{m+2}$ in the complex plane, where $P(z)=a_1 z^{m-1}+a_2 z^{m-2}+...+a_{m-1} z$ is a polynomial. We provide asymptotic expansions of the eigenvalue counting function and the eigenvalues $\lambda_{n}$. Then we apply these to the inverse spectral problem, reconstructing some coefficients of polynomial potentials from asymptotic expansions of the eigenvalues. Also, we show for arbitrary $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric polynomial potentials of degree $m\geq 3$ and all symmetric decaying boundary conditions that the eigenvalues are all real and positive, with only finitely many exceptions.

id: math/0411653
title: Mediated Digraphs and Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Gregory Gutin, Nick S. Jones, Arash Rafiey, Simone Severini, Anders Yeo
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Discrete Appl. Math. 150 (2005), no. 1-3, 41--50
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0411653
abstract: A digraph D=(V,A) is mediated if, for each pair x,y of distinct vertices of D, either xy belongs to A or yx belongs to A or there is a vertex z such that both xz,yz belong to A. For a digraph D, DELTA(D) is the maximum in-degree of a vertex in D. The "nth mediation number" mu(n) is the minimum of DELTA(D) over all mediated digraphs on n vertices. Mediated digraphs and mu(n) are of interest in the study of quantum nonlocality. We obtain a lower bound f(n) for mu(n) and determine infinite sequences of values of n for which mu(n)=f(n) and mu(n)>f(n), respectively. We derive upper bounds for mu(n) and prove that mu(n)=f(n)(1+o(1)). We conjecture that there is a constant c such that mu(n)=<f(n)+c. Methods and results of graph theory, design theory and number theory are used.

id: nlin/0411053
title: Path Integration on Hermitian Hyperbolic Space
authors: Christian Grosche
comments: 29 pages, revised paper as published
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 3625-3650
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0411053
abstract: In this paper the path integral technique is applied to the quantum motion on the Hermitian hyperbolic space HH(2). The Schr\"odinger equation on this space separates in 12 coordinate systems which are closely related to the coordinate systems on the two-dimensional hyperboloid. For six coordinate systems out of the twelve it is possible to find a path integral solution.

id: nlin/0411062
title: The Fermi-Pasta-Ulam problem: 50 years of progress
authors: G.P.Berman, F.M.Izrailev
comments: 48 pages, no figures, corrected and accepted for publication
journal: CHAOS, 15 (2005) 015104
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0411062
abstract: A brief review of the Fermi-Pasta-Ulam (FPU) paradox is given, together with its suggested resolutions and its relation to other physical problems. We focus on the ideas and concepts that have become the core of modern nonlinear mechanics, in their historical perspective. Starting from the first numerical results of FPU, both theoretical and numerical findings are discussed in close connection with the problems of ergodicity, integrability, chaos and stability of motion. New directions related to the Bose-Einstein condensation and quantum systems of interacting Bose-particles are also considered.

id: physics/0411052
title: Atomic Interferometer with Amplitude Gratings of Light and its Applications to Atom Based Tests of the Equivalence Principle
authors: Sebastian Fray, Cristina Alvarez Diez, Theodor W. H?nsch, Martin Weitz
comments: 4 Pages, 4 figures, accepted for Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 93 (2004) 240404
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0411052
abstract: We have developed a matter wave interferometer based on the diffraction of atoms from effective absorption gratings of light. In a setup with cold rubidium atoms in an atomic fountain the interferometer has been used to carry out tests of the equivalence principle on an atomic basis. The gravitational acceleration of the two isotopes 85Rb and 87Rb was compared, yielding a difference Dg/g =(1.2 +-1.7)x10^{-7}. We also perform a differential free fall measurement of atoms in two different hyperfine states, and obtained a result of Dg/g =(0.4 +-1.2)x10^{-7}.

id: physics/0411097
title: Atom Interferometry in a Vertical Optical Lattice
authors: G. Modugno, E. de Mirandes, F. Ferlaino, H. Ott, G. Roati, M. Inguscio
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 52, 1173 (2004)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0411097
abstract: We have studied the interference of degenerate quantum gases in a vertical optical lattice. The coherence of the atoms leads to an interference pattern when the atoms are released from the lattice. This has been shown for a Bose-Einstein condensate in early experiments. Here we demonstrate that also for fermions an interference pattern can be observed provided that the momentum distribution is smaller then the recoil momentum of the lattice. Special attention is given to the role of interactions which wash out the interference pattern for a condensate but do not affect a spin polarized Fermi gas, where collisions at ultra cold temperatures are forbidden. Comparing the interference of the two quantum gases we find a clear superiority of fermions for trapped atom interferometry.

id: physics/0411134
title: Inference of Schr?dinger's Equation from Classical-Mechanical Solution
authors: J.X. Zheng-Johansson, P-I. Johansson
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Augmented introduction, treatment and discussion. v.4 has one spelling correction over v.3
journal: Quantum Theory and Symmetries IV, Ed VK Dobrev, Heron Press, 2006; JXZJ&PIJ, Unification of Classical, Quantum and Relativistic Mechanics and the Four Forces, Nova Sci Pub, 2006
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0411134
abstract: We set up the classical wave equation for a particle formed of an oscillatory zero-rest-mass charge together with its resulting electromagnetic waves, traveling in a potential field $V$ in a susceptible vacuum. The waves are Doppler-displaced upon the source motion, and superpose into a total, traveling- and in turn a standing- beat wave, or de Broglie phase wave, described by a corresponding total classical wave equation. By back-substitution of the explicitly known total, standing beat wave function and upon appropriate reductions at classic-velocity limit, we separate out from the total a component wave equation describing the kinetic motion of particle, which is equivalent to the Schr\"odinger equation. The Schr\"odinger wave function follows to be the envelope function of the standing beat wave at classic-velocity limit.

id: physics/0411204
title: Stability of Few-Charge Systems in Quantum Mechanics
authors: E.A.G. Armour, J.-M. Richard, K. Varga
comments: 101 pages, review article
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0411204
abstract: We consider non-relativistic systems in quantum mechanics interacting through the Coulomb potential, and discuss the existence of bound states which are stable against spontaneous dissociation into smaller atoms or ions. We review the studies that have been made of specific mass configurations and also the properties of the domain of stability in the space of masses or inverse masses. These rigorous results are supplemented by numerical investigations using accurate variational methods. A section is devoted to systems of three arbitrary charges and another to molecules in a world with two space-dimensions.

id: q-bio/0411031
title: Abstract DNA-type systems
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: version accepted in Nonlinearity
journal: Nonlinearity 19, 575-589 (2006)
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0411031
abstract: An abstract DNA-type system is defined by a set of nonlinear kinetic equations with polynomial nonlinearities that admit soliton solutions associated with helical geometry. The set of equations allows for two different Lax representations: A von Neumann form and a Darboux-covariant Lax pair. We explain why non-Kolmogorovian probability models occurring in soliton kinetics are naturally associated with chemical reactions. The most general known characterization of soliton kinetic equations is given and a class of explicit soliton solutions is discussed. Switching between open and closed states is a generic behaviour of the helices. The effect does not crucially depend on the order of nonlinearity (i.e. types of reactions), a fact that may explain why simplified models possess properties occuring in realistic systems. We explain also why fluctuations based on Darboux transformations will not destroy the dynamics but only switch between a finite number of helical structures.

