id: quant-ph/0412001
title: SIC-POVMs and the Extended Clifford Group
authors: D. M. Appleby
comments: 27 pages. Version 2 contains some additional discussion of Zauner's original conjecture, and an alternative, possibly stronger version of the conjecture in version 1 of this paper; also a few other minor improvements
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 052107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412001
abstract: We describe the structure of the extended Clifford Group (defined to be the group consisting of all operators, unitary and anti-unitary, which normalize the generalized Pauli group (or Weyl-Heisenberg group as it is often called)). We also obtain a number of results concerning the structure of the Clifford Group proper (i.e. the group consisting just of the unitary operators which normalize the generalized Pauli group). We then investigate the action of the extended Clifford group operators on symmetric informationally complete POVMs (or SIC-POVMs) covariant relative to the action of the generalized Pauli group. We show that each of the fiducial vectors which has been constructed so far (including all the vectors constructed numerically by Renes et al) is an eigenvector of one of a special class of order 3 Clifford unitaries. This suggests a strengthening of a conjuecture of Zauner's. We give a complete characterization of the orbits and stability groups in dimensions 2-7. Finally, we show that the problem of constructing fiducial vectors may be expected to simplify in the infinite sequence of dimensions 7, 13, 19, 21, 31,... . We illustrate this point by constructing exact expressions for fiducial vectors in dimensions 7 and 19.

id: quant-ph/0412002
title: A new mechanism for electron spin echo envelope modulation
authors: John J. L. Morton, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Arzhang Ardavan, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, Stephen A. Lyon, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 122, 174504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412002
abstract: Electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) has been observed for the first time from a coupled hetero-spin pair of electron and nucleus in liquid solution. Previously, modulation effects in spin echo experiments have only been described in liquid solutions for a coupled pair of homonuclear spins in NMR or a pair of resonant electron spins in EPR. We observe low-frequency ESEEM (26 and 52 kHz) due to a new mechanism present for any electron spin with S>1/2 that is hyperfine coupled to a nuclear spin. In our case these are electron spin (S=3/2) and nuclear spin (I=1) in the endohedral fullerene N@C60. The modulation is shown to arise from second order effects in the isotropic hyperfine coupling of an electron and 14N nucleus.

id: quant-ph/0412003
title: Influence of molecular temperature on the coherence of fullerenes in a near-field interferometer
authors: Klaus Hornberger, Lucia Hackermueller, Markus Arndt
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 023601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412003
abstract: We study C70 fullerene matter waves in a Talbot-Lau interferometer as a function of their temperature. While the ideal fringe visibility is observed at moderate molecular temperatures, we find a gradual degradation of the interference contrast if the molecules are heated before entering the interferometer. A method is developed to assess the distribution of the micro-canonical temperatures of the molecules in free flight. This way the heating-dependent reduction of interference contrast can be compared with the predictions of quantum theory. We find that the observed loss of coherence agrees quantitatively with the expected decoherence rate due to the thermal radiation emitted by the hot molecules.

id: quant-ph/0412004
title: Gravity-induced resonances in a rotating trap
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 71, 043610 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412004
abstract: It is shown that in an anisotropic harmonic trap that rotates with the properly chosen rotation rate, the force of gravity leads to a resonant behavior. Full analysis of the dynamics in an anisotropic, rotating trap in 3D is presented and several regions of stability are identified. On resonance, the oscillation amplitude of a single particle, or of the center of mass of a many-particle system (for example, BEC), grows linearly with time and all particles are expelled from the trap. The resonances can only occur when the rotation axis is tilted away from the vertical position. The positions of the resonances (there are always two of them) do not depend on the mass but only on the characteristic frequencies of the trap and on the direction of the angular velocity of rotation.

id: quant-ph/0412005
title: Quantum Electrodynamics in Media with Negative Refraction
authors: J¨¹rgen K?stel, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: to be published in Laser Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412005
abstract: We consider the interaction of atoms with the quantized electromagnetic field in the presence of materials with negative index of refraction. Spontaneous emission of an atom embedded in a negative index material is discussed. It is shown furthermore that the possibility of a vanishing optical path length between two spatially separated points provided by these materials can lead to complete suppression of spontaneous emission of an atom in front of a perfect mirror even if the distance between atom and mirror is large compared to the transition wavelength. Two atoms put in the focal points of a lens formed by a parallel slab of ideal negative index material are shown to exhibit perfect sub- and superradiance. The maximum length scale in both cases is limited only by the propagation distance within the free-space radiative decay time. Limitations of the predicted effects arising from absorption, finite transversal extension and dispersion of the material are analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0412006
title: A bound on the mutual information, and properties of entropy reduction, for quantum channels with inefficient measurements
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 7 pages, revtex4. v2: published version; note added regarding similar work by Barchielli and Lupieri
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 012102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412006
abstract: The Holevo bound is a bound on the mutual information for a given quantum encoding. In 1996 Schumacher, Westmoreland and Wootters [Schumacher, Westmoreland and Wootters, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 3452 (1996)] derived a bound which reduces to the Holevo bound for complete measurements, but which is tighter for incomplete measurements. The most general quantum operations may be both incomplete and inefficient. Here we show that the bound derived by SWW can be further extended to obtain one which is yet again tighter for inefficient measurements. This allows us in addition to obtain a generalization of a bound derived by Hall, and to show that the average reduction in the von Neumann entropy during a quantum operation is concave in the initial state, for all quantum operations. This is a quantum version of the concavity of the mutual information. We also show that both this average entropy reduction, and the mutual information for pure state ensembles, are Schur-concave for unitarily covariant measurements; that is, for these measurements, information gain increases with initial uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0412007
title: On infinite walls in deformation quantization
authors: S. Kryukov, M. A. Walton
comments: 22 pages, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.317:474-491,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412007
abstract: We examine the deformation quantization of a single particle moving in one dimension (i) in the presence of an infinite potential wall, (ii) confined by an infinite square well, and (iii) bound by a delta function potential energy. In deformation quantization, considered as an autonomous formulation of quantum mechanics, the Wigner function of stationary states must be found by solving the so-called $\*$-genvalue (``stargenvalue'') equation for the Hamiltonian. For the cases considered here, this pseudo-differential equation is difficult to solve directly, without an ad hoc modification of the potential. Here we treat the infinite wall as the limit of a solvable exponential potential. Before the limit is taken, the corresponding $\*$-genvalue equation involves the Wigner function at momenta translated by imaginary amounts. We show that it can be converted to a partial differential equation, however, with a well-defined limit. We demonstrate that the Wigner functions calculated from the standard Schr\"odinger wave functions satisfy the resulting new equation. Finally, we show how our results may be adapted to allow for the presence of another, non-singular part in the potential.

id: quant-ph/0412008
title: A Lower Bound for Quantum Phase Estimation
authors: Arvid J. Bessen
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412008
abstract: We obtain a query lower bound for quantum algorithms solving the phase estimation problem. Our analysis generalizes existing lower bound approaches to the case where the oracle Q is given by controlled powers Q^p of Q, as it is for example in Shor's order finding algorithm. In this setting we will prove a log (1/epsilon) lower bound for the number of applications of Q^p1, Q^p2, ... This bound is tight due to a matching upper bound. We obtain the lower bound using a new technique based on frequency analysis.

id: quant-ph/0412009
title: Protocol for universal gates in optimally biased superconducting qubits
authors: Chad Rigetti, Michel Devoret
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412009
abstract: We present a new experimental protocol for performing universal gates in a register of superconducting qubits coupled by fixed on-chip linear reactances. The qubits have fixed, detuned Larmor frequencies and can remain, during the entire gate operation, biased at their optimal working point where decoherence due to fluctuations in control parameters is suppressed to first order. Two-qubit gates are performed by simultaneously irradiating two qubits at their respective Larmor frequencies with appropriate amplitude and phase, while one-qubit gates are performed by the usual single-qubit irradiation pulses.

id: quant-ph/0412010
title: Brownian motion of a charged test particle in vacuum between two conducting plates
authors: Hongwei Yu, Jun Chen
comments: 10 pages, Revtex4
journal: Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 125006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412010
abstract: The Brownian motion of a charged test particle caused by quantum electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations between two perfectly conducting plates is examined and the mean squared fluctuations in the velocity and position of the test particle are calculated. Our results show that the Brownian motion in the direction normal to the plates is reinforced in comparison to that in the single-plate case. The effective temperature associated with this normal Brownian motion could be three times as large as that in the single-plate case. However, the negative dispersions for the velocity and position in the longitudinal directions, which could be interpreted as reducing the quantum uncertainties of the particle, acquire positive corrections due to the presence of the second plate, and are thus weakened.

id: quant-ph/0412011
title: Hidden Variables and Nonlocality in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Douglas L. Hemmick
comments: 77 pages, 1 figure
journal: in "Bell's Theorem and Quantum Realism Bell's Theorem and Quantum Realism", 1st Edition., 2011, XII, 97 p. 1 illus. Springer book
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412011
abstract: In this paper, we show that Erwin Schroedinger's generalization of the Einstein Podolsky Rosen argument can be connected to certain mathematical theorems - Gleason's and also Kochen and Specker's - in a manner analogous to the relation of EPR itself with Bell's theorem. In both cases, the conclusion is quantum nonlocality, as we discuss. The "Schroedinger nonlocality" proofs share some features with the Greenberger, Horne, and Zeilinger quantum-nonlocality work, yet also differ in significant ways. For clarity and completeness, we begin with a detailed discussion of the topic of hidden variable theorems. We argue, in agreement with John S. Bell, that 'impossibility' does not follow.

id: quant-ph/0412012
title: Uniform Semiclassical Approach to Fidelity Decay: from Weak to Strong Perturbation
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Baowen Li
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412012
abstract: We study fidelity decay by a uniform semiclassical approach, in the three perturbation regimes, namely, the perturbative regime, the Fermi-golden-rule (FGR) regime, and the Lyapunov regime. A semiclassical expression is derived for fidelity of initial Gaussian wave packets with width of the order $\sqrt{\hbar}$ ($\hbar$ being the effective Planck constant). Short time decay of fidelity of initial Gaussian wave packets is also studied, with respect to two time scales introduced in the semiclassical approach. In the perturbative regime, it is confirmed numerically that fidelity has the FGR decay before the Gaussian decay sets in. An explanation is suggested to a non-FGR decay in the FGR regime, which has been observed in a system with weak chaos in the classical limit, by using the Levy distribution as an approximation for the distribution of action difference. In the Lyapunov regime, it is shown that the average of the logarithm of fidelity may have roughly the Lyapunov decay within some time interval, in systems possessing large fluctuation of the finite-time Lyapunov exponent in the classical limit.

id: quant-ph/0412013
title: Instability, Isolation, and the Tridecompositional Uniqueness Theorem
authors: Matthew J. Donald
comments: 20 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412013
abstract: The tridecompositional uniqueness theorem of Elby and Bub (1994) shows that a wavefunction in a triple tensor product Hilbert space has at most one decomposition into a sum of product wavefunctions with each set of component wavefunctions linearly independent. I demonstrate that, in many circumstances, the unique component wavefunctions and the coefficients in the expansion are both hopelessly unstable, both under small changes in global wavefunction and under small changes in global tensor product structure. In my opinion, this means that the theorem cannot underlie law-like solutions to the problems of the interpretation of quantum theory. I also provide examples of circumstances in which there are open sets of wavefunctions containing no states with various decompositions.

id: quant-ph/0412014
title: A quantum key distribution and identification protocol based on entanglement swapping
authors: Fei Gao, Fenzhuo Guo, Qiaoyan Wen, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412014
abstract: A quantum key distribution and identification protocol is proposed, which is based on entanglement swapping. Through choosing particles by twos from the sequence and performing Bell measurements, two communicators can detect eavesdropping, identify each other and obtain the secure key according to the measurement results. Because the two particles measured together are selected out randomly, we need neither alternative measurements nor rotation of the Bell states. Furthermore, less Bell measurements are needed in our protocol than in the previous similar ones.

id: quant-ph/0412015
title: Relationships Between Quantum and Classical Mechanics using the Representation Theory of the Heisenberg Group
authors: Alastair Brodlie
comments: PhD Thesis from 2004, 140 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412015
abstract: This thesis is concerned with the representation theory of the Heisenberg group and its applications to both classical and quantum mechanics. We continue the development of $p$-mechanics which is a consistent physical theory capable of describing both classical and quantum mechanics simultaneously. $p$-Mechanics starts from the observation that the one dimensional representations of the Heisenberg group play the same role in classical mechanics which the infinite dimensional representations play in quantum mechanics. In this thesis we introduce the idea of states to $p$-mechanics. $p$-Mechanical states come in two forms: elements of a Hilbert space and integration kernels. In developing $p$-mechanical states we show that quantum probability amplitudes can be obtained using solely functions/distributions on the Heisenberg group. This theory is applied to the examples of the forced, harmonic and coupled oscillators. In doing so we show that both the quantum and classical dynamics of these systems can be derived from the same source. Also using $p$-mechanics we simplify some of the current quantum mechanical calculations. We also analyse the role of both linear and non-linear canonical transformations in $p$-mechanics. We enhance a method derived by Moshinsky for studying the passage of canonical transformations from classical to quantum mechanics. The Kepler/Coulomb problem is also examined in the $p$-mechanical context. In analysing this problem we show some limitations of the current $p$-mechanical approach. We then use Klauder's coherent states to generate a Hilbert space which is particularly useful for the Kepler/Coulomb problem.

id: quant-ph/0412016
title: Deformed shape invariance and exactly solvable Hamiltonians with position-dependent effective mass
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Banerjee, C. Quesne, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: 26 pages, no figure, reduced secs. 4 and 5, final version to appear in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A 38 (2005) 2929-2945
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412016
abstract: Known shape-invariant potentials for the constant-mass Schrodinger equation are taken as effective potentials in a position-dependent effective mass (PDEM) one. The corresponding shape-invariance condition turns out to be deformed. Its solvability imposes the form of both the deformed superpotential and the PDEM. A lot of new exactly solvable potentials associated with a PDEM background are generated in this way. A novel and important condition restricting the existence of bound states whenever the PDEM vanishes at an end point of the interval is identified. In some cases, the bound-state spectrum results from a smooth deformation of that of the conventional shape-invariant potential used in the construction. In others, one observes a generation or suppression of bound states, depending on the mass-parameter values. The corresponding wavefunctions are given in terms of some deformed classical orthogonal polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0412017
title: Experimental realization of optimal asymmetric cloning and telecloning via partial teleportation
authors: Zhi Zhao, An-Ning Zhang, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Yu-Ao Chen, Chao-Yang Lu, Anders Karlsson, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 95, 030502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412017
abstract: We report an experimental realization of both optimal asymmetric cloning and telecloning of single photons by making use of partial teleportation of an unknown state. In the experiment, we demonstrate that, conditioned on the success of partial teleportation of single photons, not only the optimal asymmetric cloning can be accomplished, but also one of two outputs can be transfered to a distant location, realizing the telecloning. The experimental results represent a novel way to achieve the quantum cloning and may have potential applications in the context of quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0412018
title: Transient dynamics of linear quantum amplifiers
authors: S.Maniscalco, J. Piilo, N. Vitanov, S. Stenholm
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. V2: extended discussion on applications
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 36, 329-338 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412018
abstract: The transient dynamics of a quantum linear amplifier during the transition from damping to amplification regime is studied. The master equation for the quantized mode of the field is solved, and the solution is used to describe the statistics of the output field. The conditions under which a nonclassical input field may retain nonclassical features at the output of the amplifier are analyzed and compared to the results of earlier theories. As an application we give a dynamical description of the departure of the system from thermal equilibrium.

id: quant-ph/0412019
title: Quantum diffusion in the quasiperiodic kicked rotor
authors: Hans Lignier, Jean Claude Garreau, Pascal Szriftgiser, Dominique Delande
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 69, 327-333 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412019
abstract: We study the mechanisms responsible for quantum diffusion in the quasiperiodic kicked rotor. We report experimental measurements of the diffusion constant on the atomic version of the system and develop a theoretical approach (based on the Floquet theorem) explaining the observations, especially the ``sub-Fourier'' character of the resonances observed in the vicinity of exact periodicity, i.e. the ability of the system to distinguish two neighboring driving frequencies in a time shorter than the inverse of the difference of the two frequencies.

id: quant-ph/0412020
title: Non-Markovian master equations from entanglement with stationary unobserved degrees of freedom
authors: Adrian A. Budini, Henning Schomerus
comments: 8 pages, extensively revised and expanded, changed title, to appear in J Phys A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 9251 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412020
abstract: We deduce a class of non-Markovian completely positive master equations which describe a system in a composite bipartite environment, consisting of a Markovian reservoir and additional stationary unobserved degrees of freedom that modulate the dissipative coupling. The entanglement-induced memory effects can persist for arbitrary long times and affect the relaxation to equilibrium, as well as induce corrections to the quantum-regression theorem. By considering the extra degrees of freedom as a discrete manifold of energy levels, strong non-exponential behavior can arise, as for example power law and stretched exponential decays.

id: quant-ph/0412021
title: Manipulating quantum states with aspheric lenses
authors: Zhi-Wei Wang, Xi-Feng Ren, Yun-Feng Huang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Revised edition, to appear in PLA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412021
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration to manipulate the width and position of the down-converted beam waist. Our results can be used to engineer the two-photon orbital angular momentum (OAM) entangled states (such as concentrating OAM entangled states) and generate Hermite-Gaussian (HG) modes entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0412022
title: Multimode Hong-Ou-Mandel Interferometry
authors: S. P. Walborn, W. A. T. Nogueira, A. N. de Oliveira, S. P¨¢dua, C. H. Monken
comments: 20 pages, 14 figures, Brief Review to be published in Modern Physics Letters B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412022
abstract: We review some recent experiments based upon multimode two-photon interference of photon pairs created by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The new element provided by these experiments is the inclusion of the transverse spatial profiles of the pump, signal and idler fields. We discuss multimode Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, and show that the transverse profile of the pump beam can be manipulated in order to control two-photon interference. We present the basic theory and experimental results as well as several applications to the field of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0412023
title: Intrinsic-Stabilization Uni-Directional Quantum Key Distribution Between Beijing and Tianjin
authors: Xiao-fan Mo, Bing Zhu, Zheng-fu Han, You-zhen Gui, Guang-can Guo
comments: 7 pages,4 figures
journal: Optics letters 30, 2632 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412023
abstract: Quantum key distribution provides unconditional security for communication. Unfortunately, current experiment schemes are not suitable for long-distance fiber transmission because of instability or backscattering. We present a uni-directional intrinsic-stabilization scheme that is based on Michelson-Faraday interferometers, in which reflectors are replaced with 90 degree Faraday mirrors. With the scheme, key exchange from Beijing to Tianjin over 125 kilometers with an average error rate is below 6% has been achieved and its limited distance exceeds 150 kilometers. Experimental result shows the system is insensitive to environment and can run over day and night without any break even in the noise workshop.

id: quant-ph/0412024
title: Decoherence properties of arbitrarily long histories
authors: Artur Scherer, Andrei N. Soklakov
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412024
abstract: Within the decoherent histories formulation of quantum mechanics, we consider arbitrarily long histories constructed from a fixed projective partition of a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. We review some of the decoherence properties of such histories including simple necessary decoherence conditions and the dependence of decoherence on the initial state. Here we make a first step towards generalization of our earlier results [Scherer and Soklakov, e-print: quant-ph/0405080, (2004) and Scherer et al., Phys. Lett. A, vol. 326, 307, (2004)] to the case of approximate decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0412025
title: Hypothesis elimination on a quantum computer
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412025
abstract: Hypothesis elimination is a special case of Bayesian updating, where each piece of new data rules out a set of prior hypotheses. We describe how to use Grover's algorithm to perform hypothesis elimination for a class of probability distributions encoded on a register of qubits, and establish a lower bound on the required computational resources.

id: quant-ph/0412026
title: Dynamics of Two-Level System Interacting with Random Classical Field
authors: G. B. Lesovik, A. V. Lebedev, A. O. Imambekov
comments: 5 pages
journal: JETP Lett. 75, p. 474, (2002) [Pisma v Zhurnal Eksperimentalnoi i Teoreticheskoi Fiziki, Vol. 75, No. 9, 2002, pp. 565--569]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412026
abstract: The dynamics of a particle interacting with random classical field in a two-well potential is studied by the functional integration method. The probability of particle localization in either of the wells is studied in detail. Certain field-averaged correlation functions for quantum-mechanical probabilities and the distribution function for the probabilities of final states (which can be considered as random variables in the presence of a random field) are calculated. The calculated correlators are used to discuss the dependence of the final state on the initial state. One of the main results of this work is that, although the off-diagonal elements of density matrix disappear with time, a particle in the system is localized incompletely (wave-packet reduction does not occur), and the distribution function for the probability of finding particle in one of the wells is a constant at infinite time.

id: quant-ph/0412027
title: Estimation of pure qubit states with collective and individual measurements
authors: E. Bagan, A. Monras, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 16 pages, 4 Figures, Revtex. Improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412027
abstract: We analyze the estimation of a qubit pure state by means of local measurements on $N$ identical copies and compare its averaged fidelity for an isotropic prior probability distribution to the absolute upper bound given by collective measurements. We discuss two situations: the first one, where the state is restricted to lie on the equator of the Bloch sphere, is formally equivalent to phase estimation; the second one, where there is no constrain on the state, can also be regarded as the estimation of a direction in space using a quantum arrow made out of $N$ parallel spins. We discuss various schemes with and without classical communication and compare their efficiency. We show that the fidelity of the most general collective measurement can always be achieved asymptotically with local measurements and no classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0412028
title: Information vs. Disturbance in Dimension D
authors: P. Oscar Boykin, Vwani P. Roychowdhury
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412028
abstract: We show that for Eve to get information in one basis about a state, she must cause errors in all bases that are mutually unbiased to that basis. Our result holds in any dimension. We also show that this result holds for all functions of messages that are encrypted with a key.

id: quant-ph/0412029
title: The DARPA Quantum Network
authors: Chip Elliott
comments: 34 pages, 11 figures, preprint of book chapter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412029
abstract: A team from BBN Technologies, Boston University, and Harvard University has recently built and begun to operate the world's first Quantum Key Distribution (QKD)network under DARPA sponsorship. The DARPA Quantum Network became fully operational on October 23, 2003 in BBN's laboratories, and in June 2004 was fielded through dark fiber under the streets of Cambridge, Mass., to link our campuses with non-stop quantum cryptography, twenty-four hours per day. As of December 2004, it consists of six nodes. Four are 5 MHz, BBN-built BB84 systems designed for telecommunications fiber and inter-connected by a photonic switch. Two are the electronics subsystems for a high speed free-space system designed and built by NIST. This paper describes the motivation for our work, the current status of the DARPA Quantum Network, its unique optical switching and key relay protocols, and our future plans.

id: quant-ph/0412030
title: Generalized uncertainty relations and efficient measurements in quantum systems
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 17 pages. Translated from Russian and typeset in LaTeX from Teoreticheskaya i Matematichescheskaya Fizika, Vol. 26, No.3 pp. 316--329, March, 1976
journal: Teoreticheskaya i Matematichescheskaya Fizika, Vol. 26, No.3 pp. 316--329, Plenum, 1976
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412030
abstract: We consider two variants of a quantum-statistical generalization of the Cramer-Rao inequality that establishes an invariant lower bound on the mean square error of a generalized quantum measurement. The proposed complex variant of this inequality leads to a precise formulation of a generalized uncertainty principle for arbitrary states, in contrast to Helstrom's symmetric variant in which these relations are obtained only for pure states. A notion of canonical states is introduced and the lower mean square error bound is found for estimating of the parameters of canonical states, in particular, the canonical parameters of a Lie group. It is shown that these bounds are globally attainable only for canonical states for which there exist efficient measurements or quasimeasurements.

id: quant-ph/0412031
title: Design of Optimal Dynamic Analyzers: Mathematical Aspects of Wave Pattern Recognition
authors: V. P. Belavkin, V. P. Maslov
comments: 97 pages. Typeset in LaTeX from Advances in Science and Technology in the USSR, Mir Publisher 1988
journal: Mathematical Aspects Of Computer Engineering Advances in Science and Technology in the USSR, Mir Publisher 1988
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412031
abstract: We give a review of the most important results on optimal tomography as mathematical wave-pattern recognition theory emerged in the 70's in connection with the problems of optimal estimation and hypothesis testing in quantum theory. In quantum theory such problems are sometimes referred as the problem of optimal measurement of an unknown quantum state, and are the main subject of the emerging mathematical theory of quantum statistics. We develop the results of quantum pattern recognition theory, most of which belong to VPB, further into the direction of wave, rather than particle statistical estimation and hypothesis testing theory, with the aim to include not only quantum matter waves but also classical wave patterns like optical and acoustic waves. We conclude that Hilbert space and operator methods developed in quantum theory are equally useful in the classical wave theory, as soon as the possible observations are restricted to only intensity distributions of waves, i.e. when the wave states are not the allowed observables, as they are not the observables of individual particles in the quantum theory. We show that all characteristic attributes of quantum theory such as complementarity, entanglement or Heisenberg uncertainty relations are also attributes of the generalized wave pattern recognition theory.

id: quant-ph/0412032
title: Quantum state reconstruction via continuous measurement
authors: Andrew Silberfarb, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412032
abstract: We present a new procedure for quantum state reconstruction based on weak continuous measurement of an ensemble average. By applying controlled evolution to the initial state new information is continually mapped onto the measured observable. A Bayesian filter is then used to update the state-estimate in accordance with the measurement record. This generalizes the standard paradigm for quantum tomography based on strong, destructive measurements on separate ensembles. This approach to state estimation can be non-destructive and real-time, giving information about observables whose evolution cannot be described classically, opening the door to new types of quantum feedback control.

id: quant-ph/0412033
title: Efficient Quantum Algorithms for the Hidden Subgroup Problem over a Class of Semi-direct Product Groups
authors: Yoshifumi Inui, Francois Le Gall
comments: 10 pages, final version. Algorithms modified to work with black-box groups too
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 7, No. 5&6 (2007), 559-570
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412033
abstract: In this paper, we consider the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) over the class of semi-direct product groups $\mathbb{Z}_{p^r}\rtimes\mathbb{Z}_q$, for p and q prime. We first present a classification of these groups in five classes. Then, we describe a polynomial-time quantum algorithm solving the HSP over all the groups of one of these classes: the groups of the form $\mathbb{Z}_{p^r}\rtimes\mathbb{Z}_p$, where p is an odd prime. Our algorithm works even in the most general case where the group is presented as a black-box group with not necessarily unique encoding. Finally, we extend this result and present an efficient algorithm solving the HSP over the groups $\mathbb{Z}^m_{p^r}\rtimes\mathbb{Z}_p$.

id: quant-ph/0412034
title: Additivity for transpose depolarizing channels
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Alexander S. Holevo, Yuri Suhov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412034
abstract: Additivity of the minimal output entropy for the family of transpose depolarizing channels introduced by Fannes et al. [quant-ph/0410195] is considered. It is shown that using the method of our previous paper [quant-ph/0403072] allows us to prove the additivity for the range of the parameter values for which the problem was left open in [quant-ph/0410195]. Together with the result of [quant-ph/0410195], this covers the whole family of transpose depolarizing channels.

id: quant-ph/0412035
title: Unconditionally secure key distillation from multi-photons
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: The title has changed again. We considerably improved our presentation, and furthermore we proposed & analyzed a security of a modified SARG04 protocol, which uses six states
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 73, 010302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412035
abstract: In this paper, we prove that the unconditionally secure key can be surprisingly extracted from {\it multi}-photon emission part in the photon polarization-based QKD. One example is shown by explicitly proving that one can indeed generate an unconditionally secure key from Alice's two-photon emission part in ``Quantum cryptography protocols robust against photon number splitting attacks for weak laser pulses implementations'' proposed by V. Scarani {\it et al.,} in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 057901 (2004), which is called SARG04. This protocol uses the same four states as in BB84 and differs only in the classical post-processing protocol. It is, thus, interesting to see how the classical post-processing of quantum key distribution might qualitatively change its security. We also show that one can generate an unconditionally secure key from the single to the four-photon part in a generalized SARG04 that uses six states. Finally, we also compare the bit error rate threshold of these protocols with the one in BB84 and the original six-state protocol assuming a depolarizing channel.

id: quant-ph/0412036
title: Squeezing and entanglement of matter-wave gap solitons
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Elena A. Ostrovskaya, Yuri S. Kivshar, Yinchieh Lai
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412036
abstract: We study quantum squeezing and entanglement of gap solitons in a Bose-Einstein condensate loaded into a one-dimensional optical lattice. By employing a linearized quantum theory we find that quantum noise squeezing of gap solitons, produced during their evolution, is enhanced compared with the atomic solitons in a lattice-free case due to intra-soliton structure of quantum correlations induced by the Bragg scattering in the periodic potential. We also show that nonlinear interaction of gap solitons in dynamically stable bound states can produce strong soliton entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0412037
title: States for phase estimation in quantum interferometry
authors: Joshua Combes, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 8 pages and 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) 14-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412037
abstract: Ramsey interferometry allows the estimation of the phase $\phi$ of rotation of the pseudospin vector of an ensemble of two-state quantum systems. For $\phi$ small, the noise-to-signal ratio scales as the spin-squeezing parameter $\xi$, with $\xi<1$ possible for an entangled ensemble. However states with minimum $\xi$ are not optimal for single-shot measurements of an arbitrary phase. We define a phase-squeezing parameter, $\zeta$, which is an appropriate figure-of-merit for this case. We show that (unlike the states that minimize $\xi$), the states that minimize $\zeta$ can be created by evolving an unentangled state (coherent spin state) by the well-known 2-axis counter-twisting Hamiltonian. We analyse these and other states (for example the maximally entangled state, analogous to the optical "NOON" state $|\psi> = (|N,0>+|0,N>)/\sqrt{2}$) using several different properties, including $\xi$, $\zeta$, the coefficients in the pseudo angular momentum basis (in the three primary directions) and the angular Wigner function $W(\theta,\phi)$. Finally we discuss the experimental options for creating phase squeezed states and doing single-shot phase estimation.

id: quant-ph/0412038
title: Non-cyclic Geometric Phase due to Spatial Evolution in a Neutron Interferometer
authors: Stefan Filipp, Yuji Hasegawa, Rudolf Loidl, Helmut Rauch
comments: 4 pages, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 021602(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412038
abstract: We present a split-beam neutron interferometric experiment to test the non-cyclic geometric phase tied to the spatial evolution of the system: the subjacent two-dimensional Hilbert space is spanned by the two possible paths in the interferometer and the evolution of the state is controlled by phase shifters and absorbers. A related experiment was reported previously by Hasegawa et al. [Phys. Rev. A 53, 2486 (1996)] to verify the cyclic spatial geometric phase. The interpretation of this experiment, namely to ascribe a geometric phase to this particular state evolution, has met severe criticism from Wagh [Phys. Rev. A 59, 1715 (1999)]. The extension to a non-cyclic evolution manifests the correctness of the interpretation of the previous experiment by means of an explicit calculation of the non-cyclic geometric phase in terms of paths on the Bloch-sphere.

id: quant-ph/0412039
title: Probabilistic Super Dense Coding
authors: A. K. Pati, P. Parashar, P. Agrawal
comments: Latex file, no figures, 11 pages, Discussion changed in Section 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412039
abstract: We explore the possibility of performing super dense coding with non-maximally entangled states as a resource. Using this we find that one can send two classical bits in a probabilistic manner by sending a qubit. We generalize our scheme to higher dimensions and show that one can communicate 2log_2 d classical bits by sending a d-dimensional quantum state with a certain probability of success. The success probability in super dense coding is related to the success probability of distinguishing non-orthogonal states. The optimal average success probabilities are explicitly calculated. We consider the possibility of sending 2 log_2 d classical bits with a shared resource of a higher dimensional entangled state (D X D, D > d). It is found that more entanglement does not necessarily lead to higher success probability. This also answers the question as to why we need log_2 d ebits to send 2 log_2 d classical bits in a deterministic fashion.

id: quant-ph/0412040
title: Realization of a General Multi-step Quantum Cloning Machine
authors: L. Masullo, M. Ricci, F. De Martini
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412040
abstract: A general multi-step N->M probabilistic optimal universal cloning protocol is presented together with the experimental realization of the (1 -> 3) and (2 -> 3) machines. Since the present method exploits the bosonic nature of the photons, it can be applied to any particle obeying to the Bose statistics. On a technological perspective, the present protocol is expected to find applications as a novel, multi-qubit symmetrizator device to be used in modern quantum information networks.

id: quant-ph/0412041
title: Realization of the 1->3 optimal phase-covariant quantum cloning machine
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412041
abstract: The 1->3 quantum phase covariant cloning, which optimally clones qubits belonging to the equatorial plane of the Bloch sphere, achieves the fidelity Fcov(1->3)=0.833, larger than for the 1->3 universal cloning Funiv(1->3)=0.778. We show how the 1->3 phase covariant cloning can be implemented by a smart modification of the standard universal quantum machine by a projection of the output states over the symmetric subspace. A complete experimental realization of the protocol for polarization encoded qubits based on non-linear and linear methods will be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412042
title: Four-level quantum teleportation, swapping and collective translations of multipartite quantum entanglement
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 9 pages, no figures, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412042
abstract: In this paper, an optimal scheme of four-level quantum teleportation and swapping of quantum entanglement is given. We construct a complete orthogonal basis of the bipartite ququadrit systems. Using this basis, the four-level quantum teleportation and swapping can be achieved according to the standard steps. In addition, associate the above bases with the unextendible product bases and the exact entanglement bases, we prove that in the $2\times 2\times 2$ systems or $3\times 3$ systems the collective translations of multipartite quantum entanglement can be realized. PACC numbers: 03.67.Mn, 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Hk. Keywords: Ququadrit systems, Bases, Four-level teleportation, Swapping, Collective translations.

id: quant-ph/0412043
title: Detuning effects in the one-photon mazer
authors: Thierry Bastin, John Martin
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 67, 053804 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412043
abstract: The quantum theory of the mazer in the non-resonant case (a detuning between the cavity mode and the atomic transition frequencies is present) is written. The generalization from the resonant case is far from being direct. Interesting effects of the mazer physics are pointed out. In particular, it is shown that the cavity may slow down or speed up the atoms according to the sign of the detuning and that the induced emission process may be completely blocked by use of a positive detuning. It is also shown that the detuning adds a potential step effect not present at resonance and that the use of positive detunings defines a well-controlled cooling mechanism. In the special case of a mesa cavity mode function, generalized expressions for the reflection and transmission coefficients have been obtained. The general properties of the induced emission probability are finally discussed in the hot, intermediate and cold atom regimes. Comparison with the resonant case is given.

id: quant-ph/0412044
title: Transmission of ultracold atoms through a micromaser: detuning effects
authors: John Martin, Thierry Bastin
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 29, 133-137 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412044
abstract: The transmission probability of ultracold atoms through a micromaser is studied in the general case where a detuning between the cavity mode and the atomic transition frequencies is present. We generalize previous results established in the resonant case (zero detuning) for the mesa mode function. In particular, it is shown that the velocity selection of cold atoms passing through the micromaser can be very easily tuned and enhanced using a non-resonant field inside the cavity. Also, the transmission probability exhibits with respect to the detuning very sharp resonances that could define single cavity devices for high accuracy metrology purposes (atomic clocks).

id: quant-ph/0412045
title: Dynamics of a quantum measurement
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 18 pages, no figures; conference talk of R. Balian
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412045
abstract: We work out an exactly solvable hamiltonian model which retains all the features of realistic quantum measurements. In order to use an interaction process involving a system and an apparatus as a measurement, it is necessary that the apparatus is macroscopic. This implies to treat it with quantum statistical mechanics. The relevant time scales of the process are exhibited. It begins with a very rapid disappearance of the off-diagonal blocks of the overall density matrix of the tested system and the apparatus. Possible recurrences are hindered by the large size of the latter. On a much larger time scale the apparatus registers the outcome: Correlations are established between the final values of the pointer and the initial diagonal blocks of the density matrix of the tested system. We thus derive Born's rule and von Neumann's reduction of the state from the dynamical process.

id: quant-ph/0412046
title: An application of a matrix inequality in quantum information theory
authors: C. King
comments: Presented at ICMP 2003, Lisbon, Portugal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412046
abstract: Quantum information theory has generated several interesting conjectures involving products of completely positive maps on matrix algebras, also known as quantum channels. In particular it is conjectured that the output state with maximal p-norm from a product channel is always a product state. It is shown here that the Lieb-Thirring inequality can be used to prove this conjecture for one special case, namely when one of the components of the product channel is of the type known as a diagonal channel, which acts on a state by taking the Hadamard product with a positive matrix.

id: quant-ph/0412047
title: Modal logic approach to preferred bases in the quantum universe
authors: A. M. Lisewski
comments: 41 pages; 1 eps-figure; several edits in v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412047
abstract: We present a modal logic based approach to the so-called endophysical quantum universe. In particular, we treat the problem of preferred bases and that of state reduction by employing an eclectic collection of methods including Baltag's analytic non-wellfounded set theory, a modal logic interpretation of Dempster-Shafer theory, and results from the theory of isometric embeddings of discrete metrics. Two basic principles, the bisimulation principle and the principle of imperfection, are derived that permit us to conduct an inductive proof showing that a preferred basis emerges at each evolutionary stage of the quantum universe. These principles are understood as theoretical realizations of the paradigm according to which the physical universe is a simulation on a quantum computer and a second paradigm saying that physical degrees of freedom are a model of Poincare's physical continuum. Several comments are given related to communication theory, to evolutionary biology, and to quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0412048
title: A quantum cellular automaton for universal quantum computation
authors: Robert Raussendorf
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412048
abstract: I describe a quantum cellular automaton capable of performing universal quantum computation. The automaton has an elementary transition function that acts on Margolus cells of $2\times 2$ qubits, and both the ``quantum input'' and the program are encoded in the initial state of the system.

id: quant-ph/0412049
title: Experimental Test of the Kochen-Specker Theorem for Single Qubits using Positive Operator-Valued Measures
authors: Qiang Zhang, Hui Li, Tao Yang, Juan Yin, Jiangfeng Du, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: Correspondence please be addressed to Jian-wei Pan (jian-wei.pan@physi.uni-heidelberg.de)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412049
abstract: We present an experimental scheme for the implementation of arbitrary generalized measurements, represented by positive-operator valued measures, on the polarization of single photons, using linear optical devices. Further, we experimentally test a Kochen-Specker theorem for single qubits using positive operator-valued measures. Our experimental results for the first time disprove non-contextual hidden-variable theories, even for single qubits.

id: quant-ph/0412050
title: A Bohmian approach to quantum fractals
authors: A. S. Sanz
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures (revised version)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 6037 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412050
abstract: A quantum fractal is a wavefunction with a real and an imaginary part continuous everywhere, but differentiable nowhere. This lack of differentiability has been used as an argument to deny the general validity of Bohmian mechanics (and other trajectory--based approaches) in providing a complete interpretation of quantum mechanics. Here, this assertion is overcome by means of a formal extension of Bohmian mechanics based on a limiting approach. Within this novel formulation, the particle dynamics is always satisfactorily described by a well defined equation of motion. In particular, in the case of guidance under quantum fractals, the corresponding trajectories will also be fractal.

id: quant-ph/0412051
title: Complex multi-projective variety and entanglement
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 3203-3211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412051
abstract: In this paper, we will show that a vanishing generalized concurrence of a separable state can be seen as an algebraic variety called the Segre variety. This variety define a quadric space which gives a geometric picture of separable states. For pure, bi- and three-partite states the variety equals the generalized concurrence. Moreover, we generalize the Segre variety to a general multipartite state by relating to a quadric space defined by two-by-two subdeterminants.

id: quant-ph/0412052
title: Fundamental Aspects of Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: Peter H?nggi, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX, submitted to Chaos special issue "100 Years of Brownian Motion"
journal: Chaos 15, 026105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412052
abstract: With this work we elaborate on the physics of quantum noise in thermal equilibrium and in stationary non-equilibrium. Starting out from the celebrated quantum fluctuation-dissipation theorem we discuss some important consequences that must hold for open, dissipative quantum systems in thermal equilibrium. The issue of quantum dissipation is exemplified with the fundamental problem of a damped harmonic quantum oscillator. The role of quantum fluctuations is discussed in the context of both, the nonlinear generalized quantum Langevin equation and the path integral approach. We discuss the consequences of the time-reversal symmetry for an open dissipative quantum dynamics and, furthermore, point to a series of subtleties and possible pitfalls. The path integral methodology is applied to the decay of metastable states assisted by quantum Brownian noise.

id: quant-ph/0412053
title: Quantum state estimation and large deviations
authors: M. Keyl
comments: LaTex2e, 40 pages, 2 figures. Substantial changes in Section 4: one new subsection (4.1) and another (4.2 was 4.1 in the previous version) completely rewritten. Minor changes in Sect. 2 and 3. Typos corrected. References added. Accepted for publication in Rev. Math. Phys
journal: Reviews in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 18, No. 1 (2006) 19-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412053
abstract: In this paper we propose a method to estimate the density matrix \rho of a d-level quantum system by measurements on the N-fold system. The scheme is based on covariant observables and representation theory of unitary groups and it extends previous results concerning the estimation of the spectrum of \rho. We show that it is consistent (i.e. the original input state \rho is recovered with certainty if N \to \infty), analyze its large deviation behavior, and calculate explicitly the corresponding rate function which describes the exponential decrease of error probabilities in the limit N \to \infty. Finally we discuss the question whether the proposed scheme provides the fastest possible decay of error probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0412054
title: Quantum optical time-of-arrival model in three dimensions
authors: V. Hannstein, G.C. Hegerfeldt, J.G. Muga
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) 409-420
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412054
abstract: We investigate the three-dimensional formulation of a recently proposed operational arrival-time model. It is shown that within typical conditions for optical transitions the results of the simple one-dimensional version are generally valid. Differences that may occur are consequences of Doppler and momentum-transfer effects. Ways to minimize these are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412055
title: Squeezing generation and revivals in a cavity-ion system in contact with a reservoir
authors: R. Rangel, L. Carvalho, N. Zagury
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412055
abstract: We consider a system consisting of a single two-level ion in a harmonic trap, which is localized inside a non-ideal optical cavity at zero temperature and subjected to the action of two external lasers. We are able to obtain an analytical solution for the total density operator of the system and show that squeezing in the motion of the ion and in the cavity field is generated. We also show that complete revivals of the states of the motion of the ion and of the cavity field occur periodically.

id: quant-ph/0412056
title: Entanglement in quantum critical spin systems
authors: Tommaso Roscilde, Paola Verrucchi, Andrea Fubini, Stephan Haas, Valerio Tognetti
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Contributed paper to the MQC2 conference, Naples 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412056
abstract: We study the field dependence of the entanglement of formation in anisotropic S=1/2 antiferromagnetic chains and two-leg ladders displaying a T=0 field-driven quantum phase transition. The analysis is carried out via Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. At zero temperature the entanglement estimators show abrupt changes at and around criticality, vanishing below the critical field, in correspondence with an exactly factorized state, and then immediately recovering a finite value upon passing through the quantum phase transition. At the quantum critical point, a deep minimum in the pairwise-to-global entanglement ratio shows that multi-spin entanglement is strongly enhanced; moreover this signature represents a novel way of detecting the quantum phase transition of the system, relying entirely on entanglement estimators.

id: quant-ph/0412057
title: Generation of a superposition of multiple mesoscopic states of radiation in a resonant cavity
authors: P. K. Pathak, G. S. Agarwal
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 043823 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412057
abstract: Using resonant interaction between atoms and the field in a high quality cavity, we show how to generate a superposition of many mesoscopic states of the field. We study the quasi-probability distributions and demonstrate the nonclassicality of the superposition in terms of the zeroes of the Q-function as well as the negativity of the Wigner function. We discuss the decoherence of the generated superposition state. We propose homodyne techniques of the type developed by Auffeves et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 230405 (2003)] to monitor the superposition of many mesoscopic states.

id: quant-ph/0412058
title: The fundamental problem of quantum cryptography
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Marek Czachor
comments: revtex, 2 eps figures, very preliminary version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412058
abstract: It is known that statistical predictions of quantum theory do not depend on its interpretation. In particular, an experiment cannot distinguish between the Copenhagen interpretation (involving no hidden variables) and the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation based on nonlocal hidden variables. Quantum cryptographic protocols, such as BB84 or E91, are secure and mutually equivalent as long as one works within the framework of Copenhagen interpretation. But they are inequivalent and insecure if one considers attacks allowed by the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation. The fundametal problem of quantum cryptography is therefore this: Are all the statements about security of quantum protocols based on our belief in one of the two allowed interpretations of quantum mechanics? We show that this is not the case. Ekert-type protocols can be modified in a way that makes them secure even if the de Broglie-Bohm nonlocal hidden variables exist. Bennett-Brassard-type cryptography does not seem to allow for such a correction.

id: quant-ph/0412059
title: Encoding a qubit into multilevel subspaces
authors: Matthew Grace, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz, Ian Walmsley, Robert Kosut, Daniel Lidar
comments: IOPart LaTeX, 2 figures, 31 pages; addition of a numerical simulation
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 35 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412059
abstract: We present a formalism for encoding the logical basis of a qubit into subspaces of multiple physical levels. The need for this multilevel encoding arises naturally in situations where the speed of quantum operations exceeds the limits imposed by the addressability of individual energy levels of the qubit physical system. A basic feature of the multilevel encoding formalism is the logical equivalence of different physical states and correspondingly, of different physical transformations. This logical equivalence is a source of a significant flexibility in designing logical operations, while the multilevel structure inherently accommodates fast and intense broadband controls thereby facilitating faster quantum operations. Another important practical advantage of multilevel encoding is the ability to maintain full quantum-computational fidelity in the presence of mixing and decoherence within encoding subspaces. The formalism is developed in detail for single-qubit operations and generalized for multiple qubits. As an illustrative example, we perform a simulation of closed-loop optimal control of single-qubit operations for a model multilevel system, and subsequently apply these operations at finite temperatures to investigate the effect of decoherence on operational fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0412060
title: Complementarity and Entanglement in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Tracey E. Tessier
comments: Ph.D. Dissertation, 201 pages, two-sided
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412060
abstract: The restrictions that nature places on the distribution of correlations in a multipartite quantum system play fundamental roles in the evolution of such systems, and yield vital insights into the design of protocols for the quantum control of ensembles with potential applications in the field of quantum computing. We show how this entanglement sharing behavior may be studied in increasingly complex systems of both theoretical and experimental significance and demonstrate that entanglement sharing, as well as other unique features of entanglement, e.g. the fact that maximal information about a multipartite quantum system does not necessarily entail maximal information about its component subsystems, may be understood as specific consequences of the phenomenon of complementarity extended to composite quantum systems. We also present a local hidden-variable model supplemented by an efficient amount of classical communication that reproduces the quantum-mechanical predictions for the entire class of Gottesman-Knill circuits. The success of our simulation provides strong evidence that the power of quantum computation arises not directly from entanglement, but rather from the nonexistence of an efficient, local realistic description of the computation, even when augmented by an efficient amount of nonlocal, but classical communication. Finally, we note that the findings presented in this thesis support the conjecture that Hilbert space dimension is an objective property of a quantum system since it constrains the number of valid conceptual divisions of the system into subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0412061
title: Dynamic decoherence control of a solid-state nuclear quadrupole qubit
authors: E. Fraval, M. J. Sellars, J. J. Longdell
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412061
abstract: We report on the application of a dynamic decoherence control pulse sequence on a nuclear quadrupole transition in $Pr^{3+}:Y_2SiO_5$ . Process tomography is used to analyse the effect of the pulse sequence. The pulse sequence was found to increase the decoherence time of the transition to over 30 seconds. Although the decoherence time was significantly increased, the population terms were found to rapidly decay on the application of the pulse sequence. The increase of this decay rate is attributed to inhomogeneity in the ensemble. Methods to circumvent this limit are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412062
title: Multi pulse control of entanglement
authors: Chikako Uchiyama, Masaki Aihara
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures submitted to Special Issue in the Journal QIC (Quantum Information and Control)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412062
abstract: We study the effectiveness of multi pulse control to suppress the degradation of entanglement. Based on a linearly interacting spin-boson model, we show that the multi pulse application recovers the decay of concurrence when an entangled pair of spins interacts with a reservoir that has the non-Markovian nature. We present the effectiveness of multi pulse control for both the common bath case and the individual bath case.

id: quant-ph/0412063
title: Quantum Information Theory and the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christopher Gordon Timpson
comments: D.Phil. thesis submitted Trinity Term 2004 at the University of Oxford; vivaed August 2004. LaTex, 250pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412063
abstract: This thesis is a contribution to the debate on the implications of quantum information theory for the foundations of quantum mechanics. In Part 1, the logical and conceptual status of various notions of information is assessed. It is emphasized that the everyday notion of information is to be firmly distinguished from the technical notions arising in information theory; however it is maintained that in both settings `information' functions as an abstract noun, hence does not refer to a particular or substance (the worth of this point is illustrated in application to quantum teleportation). The claim that `Information is Physical' is assessed and argued to face a destructive dilemma. Accordingly, the slogan may not be understood as an ontological claim, but at best, as a methodological one. The reflections of Bruckner and Zeilinger (2001) and Deutsch and Hayden (2000) on the nature of information in quantum mechanics are critically assessed and some results presented on the characterization of entanglement in the Deutsch-Hayden formalism. Some philosophical aspects of quantum computation are discussed and general morals drawn concerning the nature of quantum information theory. In Part II, following some preliminary remarks, two particular information-theoretic approaches to the foundations of quantum mechanics are assessed in detail. It is argued that Zeilinger's (1999) Foundational Principle is unsuccessful as a foundational principle for quantum mechanics. The information-theoretic characterization theorem of Clifton, Bub and Halvorson (2003) is assessed more favourably, but the generality of the approach is questioned and it is argued that the implications of the theorem for the traditional foundational problems in quantum mechanics remains obscure.

id: quant-ph/0412064
title: Matter Wave Diffraction from an Inclined Transmission Grating: Searching for the Elusive He-4 Trimer Efimov State
authors: R. Bruehl, A. Kalinin, O. Kornilov, J. P. Toennies, G. C. Hegerfeldt, M. Stoll
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 063002 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412064
abstract: The size of the helium trimer is determined by diffracting a beam of He-4 clusters from a 100 nm grating inclined by 21 degree. Due to the bar thickness the projected slit width is roughly halved to 27 nm, increasing the sensitivity to the trimer size. The peak intensities measured out to the 8th order are evaluated via a few-body scattering theory. The trimer pair distance is found to be 1.1+0.4/-0.5 nm in agreement with predictions for the ground state. No evidence for a significant amount of Efimov trimers is found. Their concentration is estimated to be less than 6%.

id: quant-ph/0412065
title: Optimal coupling of entangled photons into single-mode optical fibers
authors: R. Andrews, E. R. Pike, Sarben Sarkar
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, 12, 3264-3269 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412065
abstract: We present a consistent multimode theory that describes the coupling of single photons generated by collinear Type-I parametric down-conversion into single-mode optical fibers. We have calculated an analytic expression for the fiber diameter which maximizes the pair photon count rate. For a given focal length and wavelength, a lower limit of the fiber diameter for satisfactory coupling is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0412066
title: The limitations of nice mutually unbiased bases
authors: Michael Aschbacher, Andrew M. Childs, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 7 pages
journal: Journal of Algebraic Combinatorics, Vol. 25, No. 2 (2007) 111-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412066
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases of a Hilbert space can be constructed by partitioning a unitary error basis. We consider this construction when the unitary error basis is a nice error basis. We show that the number of resulting mutually unbiased bases can be at most one plus the smallest prime power contained in the dimension, and therefore that this construction cannot improve upon previous approaches. We prove this by establishing a correspondence between nice mutually unbiased bases and abelian subgroups of the index group of a nice error basis and then bounding the number of such subgroups. This bound also has implications for the construction of certain combinatorial objects called nets.

id: quant-ph/0412067
title: Extending the Promise of the Deutsch--Jozsa--Hoyer Algorithm for Finite Groups
authors: Michael Batty, Samuel L. Braunstein, Andrew J. Duncan
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, to appear in LMS JCM Updated on 9th August 2005 following the referees comments. Added: Overview of questions surrounding the Fourier transform; Appendix on group representations. Corrected typos and improved notation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412067
abstract: Hoyer has given a generalisation of the Deutsch--Jozsa algorithm which uses the Fourier transform on a group G which is (in general) non-Abelian. His algorithm distinguishes between functions which are either perfectly balanced (m-to-one) or constant, with certainty, and using a single quantum query. Here, we show that this algorithm (which we call the Deutsch--Jozsa--Hoyer algorithm) can in fact deal with a broader range of promises, which we define in terms of the irreducible representations of G.

id: quant-ph/0412068
title: Time and Ensemble Averages in Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Noam Erez, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 6 pages
journal: PHYSICA SCRIPTA 69 (2): 81-83 FEB 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412068
abstract: We show that in the framework of one-dimensional Bohmian Quantum Mechanics[1], for a particle subject to a potential undergoing a weak adiabatic change, the time averages of the particle's positions typically differ markedly from the ensemble averages. We Apply this result to the case where the weak perturbing potential is the back-action of a measuring device (i.e. a protective measurement). It is shown that under these conditions, most trajectories never cross the position measured (as already shown for a particular example in [3]).

id: quant-ph/0412069
title: Spin-glasses in optical cavity
authors: Chiu Fan Lee, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 81, 37004 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412069
abstract: Recent advances in nanofabrication and optical control have garnered tremendous interest in multi-qubit-cavity systems. Here we analyze a spin-glass version of such a nanostructure, solving analytically for the phase diagrams in both the matter and radiation subsystems in the replica symmetric regime. Interestingly, the resulting phase transitions turn out to be tunable simply by varying the matter-radiation coupling strength.

id: quant-ph/0412070
title: Noise Tolerance of the BB84 Protocol with Random Privacy Amplification
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure, version 2 fills a logical gap in the proof. Version 3 includes an upper bound on the mutual information with finete code length by using the decoding error probability of the code. Version 4 adds a paragraph clarifying that no previous paper has proved that the BB84 with random privacy amplification can tolerate the 11% error rate
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol. 4, no. 6, pp. 935-946, Dec. 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412070
abstract: We prove that BB84 protocol with random privacy amplification is secure with a higher key rate than Mayers' estimate with the same error rate. Consequently, the tolerable error rate of this protocol is increased from 7.5 % to 11 %. We also extend this method to the case of estimating error rates separately in each basis, which enables us to securely share a longer key.

id: quant-ph/0412071
title: Complexity of Graph State Preparation
authors: Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412071
abstract: The graph state formalism is a useful abstraction of entanglement. It is used in some multipartite purification schemes and it adequately represents universal resources for measurement-only quantum computation. We focus in this paper on the complexity of graph state preparation. We consider the number of ancillary qubits, the size of the primitive operators, and the duration of preparation. For each lexicographic order over these parameters we give upper and lower bounds for the complexity of graph state preparation. The first part motivates our work and introduces basic notions and notations for the study of graph states. Then we study some graph properties of graph states, characterizing their minimal degree by local unitary transformations, we propose an algorithm to reduce the degree of a graph state, and show the relationship with Sutner sigma-game. These properties are used in the last part, where algorithms and lower bounds for each lexicographic order over the considered parameters are presented.

id: quant-ph/0412072
title: Quantum Compiling with Approximation of Multiplexors
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: Ver1:18 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 7 .eps); Ver2:26 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 7 .eps, 7 .m) Ver2 = Ver1 + new material, including 7 Octave/Matlab m-files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412072
abstract: A quantum compiling algorithm is an algorithm for decomposing ("compiling") an arbitrary unitary matrix into a sequence of elementary operations (SEO). Suppose $U_{in}$ is an $\nb$-bit unstructured unitary matrix (a unitary matrix with no special symmetries) that we wish to compile. For $\nb>10$, expressing $U_{in}$ as a SEO requires more than a million CNOTs. This calls for a method for finding a unitary matrix that: (1)approximates $U_{in}$ well, and (2) is expressible with fewer CNOTs than $U_{in}$. The purpose of this paper is to propose one such approximation method. Various quantum compiling algorithms have been proposed in the literature that decompose an arbitrary unitary matrix into a sequence of U(2)-multiplexors, each of which is then decomposed into a SEO. Our strategy for approximating $U_{in}$ is to approximate these intermediate U(2)-multiplexors. In this paper, we will show how one can approximate a U(2)-multiplexor by another U(2)-multiplexor that is expressible with fewer CNOTs.

id: quant-ph/0412073
title: Spectral analysis of short time signals
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, completely rewritten user-friendly version of quant-ph/0304206
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412073
abstract: The very old problem of extracting frequencies from time signals is addressed in the case of signals that are very short as compared to their intrinsic time scales. The solution of the problem is not only important to the classic signal processing but also helps to disqualify several common formulations of the quantum mechanical time-energy uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0412074
title: Quantum physics with a hidden variable
authors: Antonio Cassa
comments: 42 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412074
abstract: Every quantum physical system can be considered the ''shadow'' of a special kind of classical system. The system proposed here is classical mainly because each observable function has a well precise value on each state of the system: an hypothetical observer able to prepare the system exactly in an assigned state and able to build a measuring apparatus perfectly corresponding to a required observable gets always the same real value. The same system considered instead by an unexpert observer, affected by the ignorance of a hidden variable, is described by a statistical theory giving exactly and without exception the states, the observables, the dynamics and the probabilities prescribed for the usual quantum system.

id: quant-ph/0412075
title: Efficient and Robust Quantum Key Distribution With Minimal State Tomography
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Hui Khoon Ng, Wee Kang Chua, Jaroslav ?eh¨¢?ek, Janet Anders
comments: Title modified; 4 pages, 2 figures; v4 is the updated and much extended version of 18/05/08; this is Ref. [30] in quant-ph/0405084 v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412075
abstract: We introduce the Singapore protocol, a qubit protocol for quantum key distribution that is fully tomographic, more efficient than other tomographic protocols, and very robust. Under ideal circumstances the efficiency is log_2(4/3)=0.415 key bits per qubit sent. This is 25% more than the efficiency of 1/3=0.333 for the standard six-state protocol, which sets the benchmark. We describe a simple two-way communication scheme that extracts 0.4 key bits per qubit and thus gets close to the information-theoretical limit. The noise thresholds that we report for a hierarchy of eavesdropping attacks demonstrate the robustness of the protocol: A secure key can be extracted if there is less than 38.9% noise.

id: quant-ph/0412076
title: A Unified and Generalized Approach to Quantum Error Correction
authors: David Kribs, Raymond Laflamme, David Poulin
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 180501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412076
abstract: We present a unified approach to quantum error correction, called operator quantum error correction. This scheme relies on a generalized notion of noiseless subsystems that is not restricted to the commutant of the interaction algebra. We arrive at the unified approach, which incorporates the known techniques -- i.e. the standard error correction model, the method of decoherence-free subspaces, and the noiseless subsystem method -- as special cases, by combining active error correction with this generalized noiseless subsystem method. Moreover, we demonstrate that the quantum error correction condition from the standard model is a necessary condition for all known methods of quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0412077
title: Entanglement-assisted transformation is asymptotically equivalent to multiple-copy transformation
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 pages, revtex4, references updated, no figures. A slightly shorter version appears in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 024306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412077
abstract: We show that two ways of manipulation of quantum entanglement, namely, entanglement-assisted local transformation [D. Jonathan and M. B. Plenio, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 83}, 3566 (1999)] and multiple-copy transformation [S. Bandyopadhyay, V. Roychowdhury, and U. Sen, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 052315 (2002)], are equivalent in the sense that they can asymptotically simulate each other's ability to implement a desired transformation from a given source state to another given target state with the same optimal success probability. As a consequence, this yields a feasible method to evaluate the optimal conversion probability of an entanglement-assisted transformation.

id: quant-ph/0412078
title: Quantum-enhanced measurements: beating the standard quantum limit
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: Review paper. 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Science 306, 1330 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412078
abstract: Quantum mechanics, through the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, imposes limits to the precision of measurement. Conventional measurement techniques typically fail to reach these limits. Conventional bounds to the precision of measurements such as the shot noise limit or the standard quantum limit are not as fundamental as the Heisenberg limits, and can be beaten using quantum strategies that employ `quantum tricks' such as squeezing and entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0412079
title: Measurement of the total energy of an isolated system by an internal observer
authors: S. Massar, S. Popescu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412079
abstract: We consider the situation in which an observer internal to an isolated system wants to measure the total energy of the isolated system (this includes his own energy, that of the measuring device and clocks used, etc...). We show that he can do this in an arbitrarily short time, as measured by his own clock. This measurement is not subjected to a time-energy uncertainty relation. The properties of such measurements are discussed in detail with particular emphasis on the relation between the duration of the measurement as measured by internal clocks versus external clocks.

id: quant-ph/0412080
title: A New Form of Path Integral for the Coherent States Representation and its Semiclassical Limit
authors: Luis C. dos Santos, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 35 (2005) 175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412080
abstract: The overcompleteness of the coherent states basis leads to a multiplicity of representations of Feynman's path integral. These different representations, although equivalent quantum mechanically, lead to different semiclassical limits. Two such semiclassical formulas were derived in \cite{Bar01} for the two corresponding path integral forms suggested by Klauder and Skagerstan in \cite{Klau85}. Each of these formulas involve trajectories governed by a different classical representation of the Hamiltonian operator: the P representation in one case and the Q representation in other. In this paper we construct a third representation of the path integral whose semiclassical limit involves directly the Weyl representation of the Hamiltonian operator, i.e., the classical Hamiltonian itself.

id: quant-ph/0412081
title: Single spin detection by qubit SWAP to a molecular nanomagnet
authors: M Feng, J Twamley
comments: Europhysics Letters 69,699 (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412081
abstract: Spin state detection is a key but very challenging step for any spin-based solid-state quantum computing technology. In fullerene based quantum computer technologies, we here propose to detect the single spin inside a fullerene by transferring the quantum information from the endohedral spin to the ground states of a molecular nanomagnet Fe$_{8}$, with large spin S=10. We show how to perform the required SWAP operation and how to read out the information through state-of-the-art techniques such as micro-SQUID.

id: quant-ph/0412082
title: A non-perturbative method for time-dependent problems in quantum mechanics
authors: Paolo Amore, Alfredo Aranda, Francisco Fernandez, Hugh Jones
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412082
abstract: A powerful method for calculating the eigenvalues of a Hamiltonian operator consists of converting the energy eigenvalue equation into a matrix equation by means of an appropriate basis set of functions. The convergence of the method can be greatly improved by means of a variational parameter in the basis functions determined by the principle of minimal sensitivity. In the case of the quartic anharmonic oscillator and of a symmetrical double-well potential we choose an effective oscillator frequency. In the case of nonsymmetrical potential we add a coordinate shift in a two-parameter variational calculation. The method not only gives the spectrum, but also an approximation to the energy eigenfunctions. Consequently it can be used to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation using the method of stationary states. We apply it to the time development of two different initial wave functions in the double-well slow roll potential.

id: quant-ph/0412083
title: Entropic uncertainty relations for incomplete sets of mutually unbiased observables
authors: Adam Azarchs
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412083
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations, based on sums of entropies of probability distributions arising from different measurements on a given pure state, can be seen as a generalization of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation that is in many cases a more useful way to quantify incompatibility between observables. Of particular interest are relationships between `mutually unbiased' observables, which are maximally incompatible. Lower bounds on the sum of entropies for sets of two such observables, and for complete sets of observables within a space of given dimension, have been found. This paper explores relations in the intermediate regime of large, but far from complete, sets of unbiased observables.

id: quant-ph/0412084
title: Optimized design of universal two-qubit gates
authors: I. A. Grigorenko, D. V. Khveshchenko
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412084
abstract: We construct optimized implementations of the CNOT and other universal two-qubit gates that, unlike many of the previously proposed protocols, are carried out in a single step. The new protocols require tunable inter-qubit couplings but, in return, show a significant improvements in the quality of gate operations. Our optimization procedure can be further extended to the combinations of elementary two-qubit as well as irreducible many-qubit gates.

id: quant-ph/0412085
title: Optical loss and lasing characteristics of high-quality-factor AlGaAs microdisk resonators with embedded quantum dots
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Matthew Borselli, Thomas J. Johnson, Paul E. Barclay, Oskar Painter, Andreas Stintz, Sanjay Krishna
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol 86, 151106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412085
abstract: Optical characterization of AlGaAs microdisk resonant cavities with a quantum dot active region is presented. Direct passive measurement of the optical loss within AlGaAs microdisk resonant structures embedded with InAs/InGaAs dots-in-a-well (DWELL) is performed using an optical-fiber-based probing technique at a wavelength (lambda~1400 nm) that is red-detuned from the dot emission wavelength (lambda~1200 nm). Measurements in the 1400 nm wavelength band on microdisks of diameter D = 4.5 microns show that these structures support modes with cold-cavity quality factors as high as 360,000. DWELL-containing microdisks are then studied through optical pumping at room temperature. Pulsed lasing at lambda ~ 1200 nm is seen for cavities containing a single layer of InAs dots, with threshold values of ~ 17 microWatts, approaching the estimated material transparency level. Room-temperature continuous wave operation is also observed.

id: quant-ph/0412086
title: Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) Among Degenerate-Level Manifolds
authors: Zsolt Kis, Attila Karpati, Bruce W. Shore, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 21 pages, 17 figures
journal: Physical Review A 70, 053405 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412086
abstract: We examine the conditions needed to accomplish stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) when the three levels (g, e and f) are degenerate, with arbitrary couplings contributing to the pump-pulse interaction (g - e) and to the Stokes-pulse interaction (e-f). We show that in general a sufficient condition for complete population removal from the g set of degenerate states for arbitrary, pure or mixed, initial state is that the degeneracies should not decrease along the sequence g, e and f. We show that when this condition holds it is possible to achieve the degenerate counterpart of conventional STIRAP, whereby adiabatic passage produces complete population transfer. Indeed, the system is equivalent to a set of independent three-state systems, in each of which a STIRAP procedure can be implemented. We describe a scheme of unitary transformations that produces this result. We also examine the cases when this degeneracy constraint does not hold, and show what can be accomplished in those cases. For example, for angular momentum states when the degeneracy of the g and f levels is less than that of the e level we show how a special choice for the pulse polarizations and phases can produce complete removal of population from the g set. Our scheme can be a powerful tool for coherent control in degenerate systems, because of its robustness when selective addressing of the states is not required or impossible. We illustrate the analysis with several analytically solvable examples, in which the degeneracies originate from angular momentum orientation, as expressed by magnetic sublevels.

id: quant-ph/0412087
title: Engineering mixed states in a degenerate four-state system
authors: Attila Karpati, Zsolt Kis, Peter Adam
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 93, 193003 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412087
abstract: A method is proposed for preparing any pure and a wide class of mixed quantum states in the decoherence-free ground-state subspace of a degenerate multilevel lambda system. The scheme is a combination of optical pumping and a series of coherent excitation processes, and for a given pulse sequence the same final state is obtained regardless of the initial state of the system. The method is robust with respect to the fluctuation of the pulse areas, like in adiabatic methods, however, the field amplitude can be adjusted in a larger range.

id: quant-ph/0412088
title: Quantum and Classical Communication-Space Tradeoffs from Rectangle Bounds
authors: Hartmut Klauck
comments: 17 pages, appears at FSTTCS '04
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412088
abstract: We derive lower bounds for tradeoffs between the communication C and space S for communicating circuits. The first such bound applies to quantum circuits. If for any function f with image Z the multicolor discrepancy of the communication matrix of f is 1/2^d, then any bounded error quantum protocol with space S, in which Alice receives some l inputs, Bob r inputs, and they compute f(x_i,y_j) for the lr pairs of inputs (x_i,y_j) needs communication C=\Omega(lrd \log |Z|/S). In particular, n\times n-matrix multiplication over a finite field F requires C=\Theta(n^3\log^2 |F|/S). We then turn to randomized bounded error protocols, and derive the bound C=\Omega(n^3/S^2) for Boolean matrix multiplication, utilizing a new direct product result for the one-sided rectangle lower bound on randomized communication complexity. This implies a separation between quantum and randomized protocols.

id: quant-ph/0412089
title: Quantum entanglement enhances the capacity of bosonic channels with memory
authors: Nicolas J. Cerf, Julien Clavareau, Chiara Macchiavello, Jeremie Roland
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412089
abstract: The bosonic quantum channels have recently attracted a growing interest, motivated by the hope that they open a tractable approach to the generally hard problem of evaluating quantum channel capacities. These studies, however, have always been restricted to memoryless channels. Here, it is shown that the classical capacity of a bosonic Gaussian channel with memory can be significantly enhanced if entangled symbols are used instead of product symbols. For example, the capacity of a photonic channel with 70%-correlated thermal noise of one third the shot noise is enhanced by about 11% when using 3.8-dB entangled light with a modulation variance equal to the shot noise.

id: quant-ph/0412090
title: Klauder's coherent states for the radial Coulomb problem in a uniformly curved space and their flat-space limits
authors: Myo Thaik, Akira Inomata
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412090
abstract: First a set of coherent states a la Klauder is formally constructed for the Coulomb problem in a curved space of constant curvature. Then the flat-space limit is taken to reduce the set for the radial Coulomb problem to a set of hydrogen atom coherent states corresponding to both the discrete and the continuous portions of the spectrum for a fixed \ell sector.

id: quant-ph/0412091
title: A Quantum Langevin Formulation of Risk-Sensitive Optimal Control
authors: M.R. James
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S198--S207
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412091
abstract: In this paper we formulate a risk-sensitive optimal control problem for continuously monitored open quantum systems modelled by quantum Langevin equations. The optimal controller is expressed in terms of a modified conditional state, which we call a risk-sensitive state, that represents measurement knowledge tempered by the control purpose. One of the two components of the optimal controller is dynamic, a filter that computes the risk-sensitive state. The second component is an optimal control feedback function that is found by solving the dynamic programming equation. The optimal controller can be implemented using classical electronics. The ideas are illustrated using an example of feedback control of a two-level atom.

id: quant-ph/0412092
title: Wigner-Yanase skew information as tests for quantum entanglement
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 71, 052302(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412092
abstract: A Bell-type inequality is proposed in terms of Wigner-Yanase skew information, which is quadratic and involves only one local spin observable at each site. This inequality presents a hierarchic classification of all states of multipartite quantum systems from separable to fully entangled states, which is more powerful than the one presented by quadratic Bell inequalities from two-entangled to fully entangled states. In particular, it is proved that the inequality provides an exact test to distinguish entangled from nonentangled pure states of two qubits. Our inequality sheds considerable light on relationships between quantum entanglement and information theory.

id: quant-ph/0412093
title: Moment operators of the Cartesian margins of the phase space observables
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti, K. Ylinen
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 042107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412093
abstract: The theory of operator integrals is used to determine the moment operators of the Cartesian margins of the phase space observables generated by the mixtures of the number states. The moments of the $x$-margin are polynomials of the position operator and those of the $y$-margin are polynomials of the momentum operator.

id: quant-ph/0412094
title: Spectroscopic properties of a two-level atom interacting with a complex spherical nanoshell
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 20 pages plus 63 references and 11 figures, plain LaTex, for more information see this http URL (color of D sphere in figures 2-6 altered, minor typos corrected.)
journal: Chemical Physics 317(1), 1-15 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412094
abstract: Frequency shifts, radiative decay rates, the Ohmic loss contribution to the nonradiative decay rates, fluorescence yields, and photobleaching of a two-level atom radiating anywhere inside or outside a complex spherical nanoshell, i.e. a stratified sphere consisting of alternating silica and gold concentric spherical shells, are studied. The changes in the spectroscopic properties of an atom interacting with complex nanoshells are significantly enhanced, often more than two orders of magnitude, compared to the same atom interacting with a homogeneous dielectric sphere. The detected fluorescence intensity can be enhanced by 5 or more orders of magnitude. The changes strongly depend on the nanoshell parameters and the atom position. When an atom approaches a metal shell, decay rates are strongly enhanced yet fluorescence exhibits a well-known quenching. Rather contra-intuitively, the Ohmic loss contribution to the nonradiative decay rates for an atomic dipole within the silica core of larger nanoshells may be decreasing when the silica core - inner gold shell interface is approached. The quasistatic result that the radial frequency shift in a close proximity of a spherical shell interface is approximately twice as large as the tangential frequency shift appears to apply also for complex nanoshells. Significantly modified spectroscopic properties (see computer program (pending publication of this manuscript) freely available at this http URL) can be observed in a broad band comprising all (nonresonant) optical and near-infrared wavelengths.

id: quant-ph/0412095
title: Universal Quantum Gate, Yang--Baxterization and Hamiltonian
authors: Yong Zhang, Louis H. Kauffman, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: v1, 11 pages; v2, 11 pages; v3, 12 pages, additional comments; v4, 10 pages; v5, published version
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 3, No. 4 (2005) 669-678
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412095
abstract: It is fundamental to view unitary braiding operators describing topological entanglements as universal quantum gates for quantum computation. This paper derives a unitary solution of the Quantum Yang--Baxter equation via Yang--Baxterization and constructs the Hamiltonian responsible for the time-evolution of the unitary braiding operator.

id: quant-ph/0412096
title: Scalar and vector modulation instabilities induced by vacuum fluctuations in fibers: numerical study
authors: E. Brainis, D. Amans, S. Massar
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412096
abstract: We study scalar and vector modulation instabilities induced by the vacuum fluctuations in birefringent optical fibers. To this end, stochastic coupled nonlinear Schrodinger equations are derived. The stochastic model is equivalent to the quantum field operators equations and allow for dispersion, nonlinearity, and arbitrary level of birefringence. Numerical integration of the stochastic equations is compared to analytical formulas in the case of scalar modulation instability and non depleted pump approximation. The effect of classical noise and its competition with vacuum fluctuations for inducing modulation instability is also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0412097
title: Robust Multi-Partite Multi-Level Quantum Protocols
authors: Hideomi Nihira, C. R. Stroud Jr
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412097
abstract: We present a tripartite three-level state that allows a secret sharing protocol among the three parties, or a quantum key distribution protocol between any two parties. The state used in this scheme contains entanglement even after one system is traced out. We show how to utilize this residual entanglement for quantum key distribution purposes, and propose a realization of the scheme using entanglement of orbital angular momentum states of photons.

id: quant-ph/0412098
title: Entanglement and factorized ground states in two-dimensional quantum antiferromagnets
authors: Tommaso Roscilde, Paola Verrucchi, Andrea Fubini, Stephan Haas, Valerio Tognetti
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 147208 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412098
abstract: Making use of exact results and quantum Monte Carlo data for the entanglement of formation, we show that the ground state of anisotropic two-dimensional S=1/2 antiferromagnets in a uniform field takes the classical-like form of a product state for a particular value and orientation of the field, at which the purely quantum correlations due to entanglement disappear. Analytical expressions for the energy and the form of such states are given, and a novel type of exactly solvable two-dimensional quantum models is therefore singled out. Moreover, we show that the field-induced quantum phase transition present in the models is unambiguously characterized by a cusp minimum in the pairwise-to-global entanglement ratio R, marking the quantum-critical enhancement of \emph{multipartite} entanglement. A detailed discussion is provided on the universality of the cusp in R as a signature of quantum critical behavior entirely based on entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0412099
title: Entanglement Observables and Witnesses for Interacting Quantum Spin Systems
authors: L.-A. Wu, S. Bandyopadhyay, M.S. Sarandy, D.A. Lidar
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032309 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412099
abstract: We discuss the detection of entanglement in interacting quantum spin systems. First, thermodynamic Hamiltonian-based witnesses are computed for a general class of one-dimensional spin-1/2 models. Second, we introduce optimal bipartite entanglement observables. We show that a bipartite entanglement measure can generally be associated to a set of independent two-body spin observables whose expectation values can be used to witness entanglement. The number of necessary observables is ruled by the symmetries of the model. Illustrative examples are presented.

id: quant-ph/0412100
title: Cooling many particles to very low temperatures
authors: Almut Beige, Peter L. Knight, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings for the conference "From Decoherence and Emergent Classicality to Emergent Quantum Mechanics," DICE2004 in Piombino, minor changes
journal: Brazilian Journal of Physics 35, 403 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412100
abstract: In a recent paper [Beige, Knight, and Vitiello, quant-ph/0404160], we showed that a large number N of particles can be cooled very efficiently using a bichromatic interaction. The particles should be excited by red-detuned laser fields while coupling to the quantized field mode inside a resonant and leaky optical cavity. When the coupling constants are for all particles the same, a collective behavior can be generated and the cooling rate can be as large as square root of N times the single-particle coupling constants. Here we study the algebraic structure of the dynamics and the origin of the collective cooling process in more detail.

id: quant-ph/0412101
title: Estimation of pure qubits on circles
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Sibasish Ghosh, Simone Severini
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 2007 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 1809-1834
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412101
abstract: Gisin and Popescu [PRL, 83, 432 (1999)] have shown that more information about their direction can be obtained from a pair of anti-parallel spins compared to a pair of parallel spins, where the first member of the pair (which we call the pointer member) can point equally along any direction in the Bloch sphere. They argued that this was due to the difference in dimensionality spanned by these two alphabets of states. Here we consider similar alphabets, but with the first spin restricted to a fixed small circle of the Bloch sphere. In this case, the dimensionality spanned by the anti-parallel versus parallel alphabet is now equal. However, the anti-parallel alphabet is found to still contain more information in general. We generalize this to having N parallel spins and M anti-parallel spins. When the pointer member is restricted to a small circle these alphabets again span spaces of equal dimension, yet in general, more directional information can be found for sets with smaller |N-M| for any fixed total number of spins. We find that the optimal POVMs for extracting directional information in these cases can always be expressed in terms of the Fourier basis. Our results show that dimensionality alone cannot explain the greater information content in anti-parallel combinations of spins compared to parallel combinations. In addition, we describe an LOCC protocol which extract optimal directional information when the pointer member is restricted to a small circle and a pair of parallel spins are supplied.

id: quant-ph/0412102
title: Free Entanglement Measure
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 10 Papes
journal: Phys.letts.A 330,(2004),377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412102
abstract: In this paper, based on the classfication of multiparticle states and the original definition of semiseparability, we give out the redefinition of semiseparability and inseparability of multiparticle states. By virtue of the redefinition, entanglement measure of multiparticle states can be converted into bipartite entanglement measure in arbitrary dimension in mathematical method. A simple expression of entanglement measure is given out. As examples, a general three-particle pure state and an N-particle mixed state are considered.

id: quant-ph/0412103
title: Direct Derivation of the Schwinger Quantum Correction to the Thomas-Fermi Atom
authors: Edouard B. Manoukian, Parut Bantitadawit
comments: LaTeX, 4 pages, no figure
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 38 (3): pp. 897-899, March 1 1999
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412103
abstract: The Schwinger quantum correction to the classic Thomas-Fermi atom is directly derived by solving for the latter without recourse to a modeling after the harmonic oscillator potential and without solving for the particle density.

id: quant-ph/0412104
title: Separability Criterion of Tripartite Qubit Systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. to be published in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022333 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412104
abstract: In this paper, we present a method to construct full separability criteria for tripartite systems of qubits. The spirit of our approach is that a tripartite pure state can be regarded as a three-order tensor that provides an intuitionistic mathematical formulation for the full separability of pure states. We extend the definition to mixed states and given out the corresponding full separability criterion. As applications, we discuss the separability of several bound entangled states, which shows that our criterion is feasible.

id: quant-ph/0412105
title: A Derivation of the $Z\to\infty$ Limit for Atoms
authors: Edouard B. Manoukian, Jarin Osaklung
comments: LaTeX with PTPTeX class, 7 pages, no figure
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 103 (4), pp. 697-702, April 2000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412105
abstract: Upper and lower bounds are derived for the ground-state energy of neutral atoms which for $Z\to\infty$ both involve the limits of exact Green's functions with one-body potentials. The limits of both bounds are shown to coincide with the Thomas-Fermi ground-state energy.

id: quant-ph/0412106
title: Entanglement and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox with coupled intracavity optical downconverters
authors: M.K. Olsen, P.D. Drummond
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412106
abstract: We show that two evanescently coupled $\chi^{(2)}$ parametric downconverters inside a Fabry-Perot cavity provide a tunable source of quadrature squeezed light, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations and quantum entanglement. Analysing the operation in the below threshold regime, we show how these properties can be controlled by adjusting the coupling strengths and the cavity detunings. As this can be implemented with integrated optics, it provides a possible route to rugged and stable EPR sources.

id: quant-ph/0412107
title: Spontaneous emission of a photon: wave packet structures and atom-photon entanglement
authors: M.V. Fedorov, M.A. Efremov, A.E. Kazakov, K.W. Chan, C.K. Law, J.H. Eberly
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures, Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412107
abstract: Spontaneous emission of a photon by an atom is described theoretically in three dimensions with the initial wave function of a finite-mass atom taken in the form of a finite-size wave packet. Recoil and wave-packet spreading are taken into account. The total atom-photon wave function is found in the momentum and coordinate representations as the solution of an initial-value problem. The atom-photon entanglement arising in such a process is shown to be closely related to the structure of atom and photon wave packets which can be measured in the coincidence and single-particle schemes of measurements. Two predicted effects, arising under the conditions of high entanglement, are anomalous narrowing of the coincidence wave packets and, under different conditions, anomalous broadening of the single-particle wave packets. Fundamental symmetry relations between the photon and atom single-particle and coincidence wave packet widths are established. The relationship with the famous scenario of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412108
title: Experimental investigation of amplitude and phase quantum correlations in a type II OPO above threshold: from the non-degenerate to the degenerate operation
authors: Julien Laurat, Thomas Coudreau, Laurent Longchambon, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 30 (2005) 1177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412108
abstract: We describe a very stable type II optical parametric oscillator operated above threshold which provides 9.7 $\pm$ 0.5 dB (89%) of quantum noise reduction on the intensity difference of the signal and idler modes. We also report the first experimental study by homodyne detection of the generated bright two-mode state in the case of frequency degenerate operation obtained by introducing a birefringent plate inside the optical cavity.

id: quant-ph/0412109
title: Entanglement and non-locality are different resources
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 88 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412109
abstract: Bell's theorem states that, to simulate the correlations created by measurement on pure entangled quantum states, shared randomness is not enough: some "non-local" resources are required. It has been demonstrated recently that all projective measurements on the maximally entangled state of two qubits can be simulated with a single use of a "non-local machine". We prove that a strictly larger amount of this non-local resource is required for the simulation of pure non-maximally entangled states of two qubits $\ket{\psi(\alpha)}= \cos\alpha\ket{00}+\sin\alpha\ket{11}$ with $0<\alpha\lesssim\frac{\pi}{7.8}$.

id: quant-ph/0412110
title: Electronic and center of mass transitions driven by Laguerre-Gaussian beams
authors: A. Alexandrescu, E. di Fabrizio, D. Cojoc
comments: requires IOP class file
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass Opt. 7, 87-92 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412110
abstract: We derive the interaction Hamiltonian of a Laguerre-Gaussian beam with a simple atomic system, under the assumption of a small spread of the center of mass wave function in comparison with the waist of the Laguerre-Gaussian beam. The center of mass motion of the atomic system is taken into account. Using the properties of regular spherical harmonics the internal and center of mass coordinates are separated without making any multipolar expansion. Then the selection rules of the internal and of the center of mass motion transitions follow immediately. The influence of the winding number of the Laguerre-Gaussian beams on the selection rules and transition probability of the center of mass motion is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412111
title: Driving the slow-light soliton by controlling laser field
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko, A. R. Bishop
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412111
abstract: In the framework of the nonlinear $\Lambda$-model we investigate propagation of a slow-light soliton in atomic vapors and Bose-Einstein condensates. The velocity of the slow-light soliton is controlled by a time-dependent background field created by a controlling laser. For a fairly arbitrary time dependence of the field we find the dynamics of the slow-light soliton inside the medium. We provide an analytical description for the nonlinear dependence of the velocity of the signal on the controlling field. If the background field is turned off at some moment of time, the signal stops. We find the location and shape of the spatially localized memory bit imprinted into the medium. We show that the process of writing optical information can be described in terms of scattering data for the underlying scattering problem.

id: quant-ph/0412112
title: Renormalization of the singular attractive $1/r^4$ potential
authors: Mary Alberg, Michel Bawin, Fabian Brau
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 022108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412112
abstract: We study the radial Schr\"odinger equation for a particle of mass $m$ in the field of a singular attractive $g^2/{r^4}$ potential with particular emphasis on the bound states problem. Using the regularization method of Beane \textit{et al.}, we solve analytically the corresponding ``renormalization group flow" equation. We find in agreement with previous studies that its solution exhibits a limit cycle behavior and has infinitely many branches. We show that a continuous choice for the solution corresponds to a given fixed number of bound states and to low energy phase shifts that vary continuously with energy. We study in detail the connection between this regularization method and a conventional method modifying the short range part of the potential with an infinitely repulsive hard core. We show that both methods yield bound states results in close agreement even though the regularization method of Beane \textit{et al.} does not include explicitly any new scale in the problem. We further illustrate the use of the regularization method in the computation of electron bound states in the field of neutral polarizable molecules without dipole moment. We find the binding energy of s-wave polarization bound electrons in the field of C$_{60}$ molecules to be 17 meV for a scattering length corresponding to a hard core radius of the size of the molecule radius ($\sim 3.37$ \AA). This result can be further compared with recent two-parameter fits using the Lennard-Jones potential yielding binding energies ranging from 3 to 25 meV.

id: quant-ph/0412113
title: Qubit channels that achieve capacity with two states
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032334 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412113
abstract: This paper considers a class of qubit channels for which three states are always sufficient to achieve the Holevo capacity. For these channels it is known that there are cases where two orthogonal states are sufficient, two non-orthogonal states are required, or three states are necessary. Here a systematic theory is given which provides criteria to distinguish cases where two states are sufficient, and determine whether these two states should be orthogonal or non-orthogonal. In addition, we prove a theorem on the form of the optimal ensemble when three states are required, and present efficient methods of calculating the Holevo capacity.

id: quant-ph/0412114
title: Pathwise Solution of a Class of Stochastic Master Equations
authors: I. Kurniawan, M.R. James
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) 293--299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412114
abstract: In this paper we consider an alternative formulation of a class of stochastic wave and master equations with scalar noise that are used in quantum optics for modelling open systems and continuously monitored systems. The reformulation is obtained by applying J.M.C. Clark's pathwise reformulation technique from the theory of classical nonlinear filtering. The pathwise versions of the stochastic wave and master equations are defined for all driving paths and depend continuously on them. In the case of white noise equations, we derive analogs of Clark's robust approximations. The results in this paper may be useful for implementing filters for the continuous monitoring and measurement feedback control of quantum systems, and for developing new types of numerical methods for unravelling master equations. The main ideas are illustrated by an example.

id: quant-ph/0412115
title: Thermal effects on quantum communication through spin chains
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Vahid Karimipour
comments: 14 pages, Latex, five eps figures, references added
journal: Physical Rev. A, 71, 042330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412115
abstract: We study the effect of thermal fluctuations in a recently proposed protocol for transmission of unknown quantum states through quantum spin chains. We develop a low temperature expansion for general spin chains. We then apply this formalism to study exactly thermal effects on short spin chains of four spins. We show that optimal times for extraction of output states are almost independent of the temperature which lowers only the fidelity of the channel. Moreover we show that thermal effects are smaller in the anti-ferromagnetic chains than the ferromagnetic ones.

id: quant-ph/0412116
title: Instruments and mutual entropies in quantum information
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: LaTeX, requires macros in mypreprint.sty, 16 pages. Submitted to Proceedings of the 25th Conference on "Quantum Probability and Related topics"
journal: Banach Center Publications 73 (2006) 65-80
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412116
abstract: General quantum measurements are represented by instruments. In this paper the mathematical formalization is given of the idea that an instrument is a channel which accepts a quantum state as input and produces a probability and an a posteriori state as output. Then, by using mutual entropies on von Neumann algebras and the identification of instruments and channels, many old and new informational inequalities are obtained in a unified manner. Such inequalities involve various quantities which characterize the performances of the instrument under study; in particular, these inequalities include and generalize the famous Holevo's bound.

id: quant-ph/0412117
title: Quantum search algorithm by adiabatic evolution under a priori probability
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412117
abstract: Grover's algorithm is one of the most important quantum algorithms, which performs the task of searching an unsorted database without a priori probability. Recently the adiabatic evolution has been used to design and reproduce quantum algorithms, including Grover's algorithm. In this paper, we show that quantum search algorithm by adiabatic evolution has two properties that conventional quantum search algorithm doesn't have. Firstly, we show that in the initial state of the algorithm only the amplitude of the basis state corresponding to the solution affects the running time of the algorithm, while other amplitudes do not. Using this property, if we know a priori probability about the location of the solution before search, we can modify the adiabatic evolution to make the algorithm faster. Secondly, we show that by a factor for the initial and finial Hamiltonians we can reduce the running time of the algorithm arbitrarily. Especially, we can reduce the running time of adiabatic search algorithm to a constant time independent of the size of the database. The second property can be extended to other adiabatic algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0412118
title: Entanglement in the XX spin chain with an energy current
authors: V. Eisler, Z. Zimboras
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRA 71, 042318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412118
abstract: We consider the ground state of the XX chain that is constrained to carry a current of energy. The von Neumann entropy of a block of $L$ neighboring spins, describing entanglement of the block with the rest of the chain, is computed. Recent calculations have revealed that the entropy in the XX model diverges logarithmically with the size of the subsystem. We show that the presence of the energy current increases the prefactor of the logarithmic growth. This result indicates that the emergence of the energy current gives rise to an increase of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0412119
title: Why isn't every physicist a Bohmian?
authors: Oliver Passon
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure. Due to many comments significantly improved version, refrences added, main conclusion unaltered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412119
abstract: This note collects, classifies and evaluates common criticism against the de Broglie Bohm theory, including Ockham's razor, asymmetry in the de Broglie Bohm theory, the ``surreal trajectory'' problem, the underdetermination of the de Broglie Bohm theory and the question of relativistic and quantum field theoretical generalizations of the de Broglie Bohm theory. We argue that none of these objections provide a rigorous disproof, they rather highlight that even in science theories can not solely be evaluated based on their empirical confirmation.

id: quant-ph/0412120
title: Quantum limits of super-resolution in reconstruction of optical objects
authors: Vladislav N.Beskrovnyy, Mikhail I.Kolobov
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A e-mail: Mikhail.kolobov@univ-lille1.fr
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412120
abstract: We investigate analytically and numerically the role of quantum fluctuations in reconstruction of optical objects from diffraction-limited images. Taking as example of an input object two closely spaced Gaussian peaks we demonstrate that one can improve the resolution in the reconstructed object over the classical Rayleigh limit. We show that the ultimate quantum limit of resolution in such reconstruction procedure is determined not by diffraction but by the signal-to-noise ratio in the input object. We formulate a quantitative measure of super-resolution in terms of the optical point-spread function of the system.

id: quant-ph/0412121
title: A differential method for bounding the ground state energy
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A
journal: Journal of Physics A 38 (2005) 1039
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412121
abstract: For a wide class of Hamiltonians, a novel method to obtain lower and upper bounds for the lowest energy is presented. Unlike perturbative or variational techniques, this method does not involve the computation of any integral (a normalisation factor or a matrix element). It just requires the determination of the absolute minimum and maximum in the whole configuration space of the local energy associated with a normalisable trial function (the calculation of the norm is not needed). After a general introduction, the method is applied to three non-integrable systems: the asymmetric annular billiard, the many-body spinless Coulombian problem, the hydrogen atom in a constant and uniform magnetic field. Being more sensitive than the variational methods to any local perturbation of the trial function, this method can used to systematically improve the energy bounds with a local skilled analysis; an algorithm relying on this method can therefore be constructed and an explicit example for a one-dimensional problem is given.

id: quant-ph/0412122
title: Robust Charge-based Qubit Encoding
authors: Daniel K. L. Oi, Sonia G. Schirmer, Andrew D. Greentree, Tom M. Stace
comments: 6 Pages, 7 Figures. Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 075348 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412122
abstract: We propose a simple encoding of charge-based quantum dot qubits which protects against fluctuating electric fields by charge symmetry. We analyse the reduction of coupling to noise due to nearby charge traps and present single qubit gates. The relative advantage of the encoding increases with lower charge trap density.

id: quant-ph/0412123
title: Quantum computation and analysis of Wigner and Husimi functions: toward a quantum image treatment
authors: M. Terraneo, B.Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: Revtex, 13 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 066215 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412123
abstract: We study the efficiency of quantum algorithms which aim at obtaining phase space distribution functions of quantum systems. Wigner and Husimi functions are considered. Different quantum algorithms are envisioned to build these functions, and compared with the classical computation. Different procedures to extract more efficiently information from the final wave function of these algorithms are studied, including coarse-grained measurements, amplitude amplification and measure of wavelet-transformed wave function. The algorithms are analyzed and numerically tested on a complex quantum system showing different behavior depending on parameters, namely the kicked rotator. The results for the Wigner function show in particular that the use of the quantum wavelet transform gives a polynomial gain over classical computation. For the Husimi distribution, the gain is much larger than for the Wigner function, and is bigger with the help of amplitude amplification and wavelet transforms. We also apply the same set of techniques to the analysis of real images. The results show that the use of the quantum wavelet transform allows to lower dramatically the number of measurements needed, but at the cost of a large loss of information.

id: quant-ph/0412124
title: Robustness of the adiabatic quantum search
authors: Johan ?berg, David Kult, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Slightly revised version, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 060312(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412124
abstract: The robustness of the local adiabatic quantum search to decoherence in the instantaneous eigenbasis of the search Hamiltonian is examined. We demonstrate that the asymptotic time-complexity of the ideal closed case is preserved, as long as the Hamiltonian dynamics is present. In the special case of pure decoherence where the environment monitors the search Hamiltonian, it is shown that the local adiabatic quantum search performs as the classical search.

id: quant-ph/0412125
title: Equivalence between Entanglement and the Optimal Fidelity of Continuous Variable Teleportation
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Approved for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 150503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412125
abstract: We devise the optimal form of Gaussian resource states enabling continuous variable teleportation with maximal fidelity. We show that a nonclassical optimal fidelity of $N$-user teleportation networks is {\it necessary and sufficient} for $N$-party entangled Gaussian resources, yielding an estimator of multipartite entanglement. This {\it entanglement of teleportation} is equivalent to entanglement of formation in the two-user protocol, and to localizable entanglement in the multi-user one. The continuous-variable tangle, quantifying entanglement sharing in three-mode Gaussian states, is operationally linked to the optimal fidelity of a tripartite teleportation network.

id: quant-ph/0412126
title: Bidirectional coherent classical communication
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 11 pages, v2 extensive modification and rewriting of the main proof, v3 published version with only a few more changes
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 5, no. 4-5, pp. 380-395 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412126
abstract: A unitary interaction coupling two parties enables quantum communication in both the forward and backward directions. Each communication capacity can be thought of as a tradeoff between the achievable rates of specific types of forward and backward communication. Our first result shows that for any bipartite unitary gate, coherent classical communication is no more difficult than classical communication -- they have the same achievable rate regions. Previously this result was known only for the unidirectional capacities (i.e., the boundaries of the tradeoff). We then relate the tradeoff curve for two-way coherent communication to the tradeoff for two-way quantum communication and the tradeoff for coherent communiation in one direction and quantum communication in the other.

id: quant-ph/0412127
title: Moir¨¦ patterns in quantum images
authors: J.A.O. Huguenin, M.P. Almeida, P.H. Souto Ribeiro, A.Z. Khoury
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 043818 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412127
abstract: We observed moir\'e fringes in spatial quantum correlations between twin photons generated by parametric down-conversion. Spatially periodic structures were nonlocally superposed giving rise to beat frequencies typical of moir\'e patterns. This result brings interesting perspectives regarding metrological applications of such a quantum optical setup.

id: quant-ph/0412128
title: A procedure for calculating the many-particle Bohm quantum potential
authors: L.Delle Site
comments: 
journal: Physica B: Condensed Matter, Vol.349 218 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412128
abstract: In a recent work, M.Kohout (M.Kohout, Int.J.Quant.Chem. 87, 12 2002) raised the important question of how to make a correct use of Bohm's approach for defining a quantum potential. In this work, by taking into account Kohout's results, we propose a general self-consistent iterative procedure for solving this problem.

id: quant-ph/0412129
title: Process reconstruction from incomplete and/or inconsistent data
authors: Mario Ziman, Martin Plesch, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 9pages, 5 figures
journal: The European Physical Journal D 32, Vol.10,215 - 222 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412129
abstract: We analyze how an action of a qubit channel (map) can be estimated from the measured data that are incomplete or even inconsistent. That is, we consider situations when measurement statistics is insufficient to determine consistent probability distributions. As a consequence either the estimation (reconstruction) of the channel completely fails or it results in an unphysical channel (i.e., the corresponding map is not completely positive). We present a regularization procedure that allows us to derive physically reasonable estimates (approximations) of quantum channels. We illustrate our procedure on specific examples and we show that the procedure can be also used for a derivation of optimal approximations of operations that are forbidden by the laws of quantum mechanics (e.g., the universal NOT gate).

id: quant-ph/0412130
title: The Schrodinger Equation, Reversibility and the Grover Algorithm
authors: M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Cotribution to the book dedicated to Prof. Alberto Galindo, on occasion of his seventieth birthday. Uses svmult style
journal: in Fundamental Physics Meeting "Alberto Galindo", R. F. Alvarez-Estrada, A. Dobado, L. A. Fernandez, M. A. Martin-Delgado, A. Munoz Sudupe (Eds.). Aula Documental de Investigacion, Madrid, 2004, pp. 365-382
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412130
abstract: Several aspects of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation are discussed in the context of Quantum Information Theory.

id: quant-ph/0412131
title: Calculation of Positron Channeling Radiation with a Harmonic Potential
authors: V.F.Boldyshev, M.G.Shatnev
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages, Proc. Intern. Workshop on Relativistic Channeling and Related Coherent Phenomena, March 23-26, 2004.Frascati, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412131
abstract: We present a detailed calculation of channeling radiation of planar-channeled positrons from crystal targets in the framework of our approach, which was proposed recently. In contrast to previous calculations of channeling radiation in crystals, our calculation takes into account the interference between different transition amplitudes. The development stemmed from the idea that the amplitude for a given process is the sum of the transition amplitudes for each transition to lower state of transverse energy with the same energy differences between bound-bound transitions. It seems that a consistent interpretation is only possible if positrons move in a nearly harmonic planar potential with equidistant energy levels.

id: quant-ph/0412132
title: Brownian Entanglement
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, A. Khrennikov, Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412132
abstract: We show that for two classical brownian particles there exists an analog of continuous-variable quantum entanglement: The common probability distribution of the two coordinates and the corresponding coarse-grained velocities cannot be prepared via mixing of any factorized distributions referring to the two particles in separate. This is possible for particles which interacted in the past, but do not interact in the present. Three factors are crucial for the effect: 1) separation of time-scales of coordinate and momentum which motivates the definition of coarse-grained velocities; 2) the resulting uncertainty relations between the coordinate of the brownian particle and the change of its coarse-grained velocity; 3) the fact that the coarse-grained velocity, though pertaining to a single brownian particle, is defined on a common context of two particles. The brownian entanglement is a consequence of a coarse-grained description and disappears for a finer resolution of the brownian motion. We discuss possibilities of its experimental realizations in examples of macroscopic brownian motion.

id: quant-ph/0412133
title: Classical information capacity of a class of quantum channels
authors: M.M. Wolf, J. Eisert
comments: 14 pages, RevTeX (replaced with published version)
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 93 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412133
abstract: We consider the additivity of the minimal output entropy and the classical information capacity of a class of quantum channels. For this class of channels the norm of the output is maximized for the output being a normalized projection. We prove the additivity of the minimal output Renyi entropies with entropic parameters contained in [0, 2], generalizing an argument by Alicki and Fannes, and present a number of examples in detail. In order to relate these results to the classical information capacity, we introduce a weak form of covariance of a channel. We then identify several instances of weakly covariant channels for which we can infer the additivity of the classical information capacity. Both additivity results apply to the case of an arbitrary number of different channels. Finally, we relate the obtained results to instances of bi-partite quantum states for which the entanglement cost can be calculated.

id: quant-ph/0412134
title: Quantum electrodynamics of accelerated atoms in free space and in confined cavities
authors: Alexey Belyanin, Federico Capasso, Edward Fry, Stephen Fulling, Vitaly Kocharovsky, M. Suhail Zubairy, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412134
abstract: We consider a gedanken experiment with a beam of atoms in their ground state that are accelerated through a single-mode microwave cavity. We show that taking into account of the ''counter-rotating'' terms in the interaction Hamiltonian leads to the excitation of an atom with simultaneous emission of a photon into a field mode. In the case of a slow switching on of the interaction, the ratio of emission and absorption probabilities is exponentially small and is described by the Unruh factor. In the opposite case of sharp cavity boundaries the above ratio is much greater and radiation is produced with an intensity which can exceed the intensity of Unruh acceleration radiation in free space by many orders of magnitude. In both cases real photons are produced, contrary to the opinion that a uniformly accelerated atom does not radiate. The cavity field at steady state is described by a thermal density matrix. However, under some conditions laser gain is possible. We present a detailed discussion of how the acceleration of atoms affects the generated cavity field in different situations, progressing from a simple physical picture of Unruh radiation to more complicated situations.

id: quant-ph/0412135
title: The Measurement Calculus
authors: Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, keywords: one-way model, measurement based quantum computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412135
abstract: We propose a calculus of local equations over one-way computing patterns, which preserves interpretations, and allows the rewriting of any pattern to a standard form where entanglement is done first, then measurements, then local corrections. We infer from this that patterns with no dependencies, or using only Pauli measurements, can only realise unitaries belonging to the Clifford group.

id: quant-ph/0412136
title: Minimum entangled state dimension required for pseudo-telepathy
authors: Gilles Brassard, Andre A. Methot, Alain Tapp
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Replaced latin word sinistrorsus with proper English sinistrorsal :-)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412136
abstract: Pseudo-telepathy provides an intuitive way of looking at Bell's inequalities, in which it is often obvious that feats achievable by use of quantum entanglement would be classically impossible. A two-player pseudo-telepathy game proceeds as follows: Alice and Bob are individually asked a question and they must provide an answer. They are not allowed any form of communication once the questions are asked, but they may have agreed on a common strategy prior to the execution of the game. We say that they win the game if the questions and answers fulfil a specific relation. A game exhibits pseudo-telepathy if there is a quantum strategy that makes Alice and Bob win the game for all possible questions, provided they share prior entanglement, whereas it would be impossible to win this game systematically in a classical setting. In this paper, we show that any two-player pseudo-telepathy game requires the quantum players to share an entangled quantum system of dimension at least 3x3. This is optimal for two-player games, but the most efficient pseudo-telepathy game possible, in terms of total dimension, involves three players who share a quantum system of dimension 2x2x2.

id: quant-ph/0412137
title: Separability Criteria For Arbitrary Quantum Systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412137
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to obtain a sufficient and necessary condition as a criteria to test whether an arbitrary multipartite state is entangled or not. Based on the tensor expression of a multipartite pure state, the paper shows that a state is separable iff $| \mathbf{C}(\rho)| $ =0 for pure states and iff $C(\rho)$ vanishes for mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0412138
title: Observation of Nonspreading Wave Packets in an Imaginary Potential
authors: R. Stuetzle, M.C. Goebel, T. Hoerner, E. Kierig, I. Mourachko, M.K. Oberthaler, M.A. Efremov, M.V. Fedorov, V.P. Yakovlev, K.A.H. van Leeuwen, W.P. Schleich
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110405 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412138
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a method to prepare a nonspreading atomic wave packet. Our technique relies on a spatially modulated absorption constantly chiseling away from an initially broad de Broglie wave. The resulting contraction is balanced by dispersion due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. This quantum evolution results in the formation of a nonspreading wave packet of Gaussian form with a spatially quadratic phase. Experimentally, we confirm these predictions by observing the evolution of the momentum distribution. Moreover, by employing interferometric techniques, we measure the predicted quadratic phase across the wave packet. Nonspreading wave packets of this kind also exist in two space dimensions and we can control their amplitude and phase using optical elements.

id: quant-ph/0412139
title: On the positivity of Bloch-Boltzmann equations
authors: Stanislaw Kryszewski, Justyna Czechowska
comments: LaTeX (revtex4) 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412139
abstract: In a large variety of spectroscopical applications Bloch-Boltzmann equations (BBE) play an essential role. They describe the evolution of the reduced density operator of an active atom which is coupled to radiation (Bloch part) and which interacts collisionally with the perturber gas (Boltzmann part). The standard approach to the collisional part is well-known from the literature. It preserves hermiticity and normalization, but the question whether it preserves positivity seems to remain open. The completely positive BBE were recently derived via the general master equation techniques. These two approaches are applied for a model of n-level nondegenerate atom. We show that within this model both approaches to the collisional part of BBE are equivalent -- give the same physical predictions. The approach based upon master equation techniques guarantees the preservation of hermiticity, normalization and positivity. The proven equivalence ascertains that the standard approach also preserves positivity. Moreover, some aspects of the standard derivation (which atomic states do contribute to the evolution) are clarified by the established equivalence.

id: quant-ph/0412140
title: Entanglement and its Role in Shor's Algorithm
authors: Vivien M Kendon, William J Munro
comments: 15 pages, 4 eps figures, v1-3 were for conference proceedings (not included in the end); v4 is improved following referee comments, expanded explanations and added references
journal: Quantum Info. & Computation 6 (7) pp630-640 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412140
abstract: Entanglement has been termed a critical resource for quantum information processing and is thought to be the reason that certain quantum algorithms, such as Shor's factoring algorithm, can achieve exponentially better performance than their classical counterparts. The nature of this resource is still not fully understood: here we use numerical simulation to investigate how entanglement between register qubits varies as Shor's algorithm is run on a quantum computer. The shifting patterns in the entanglement are found to relate to the choice of basis for the quantum Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0412141
title: Decoherence of a Measure of Entanglement
authors: D. Tolkunov, V. Privman, P. K. Aravind
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, Article 060308(R), 4 pages (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412141
abstract: We demonstrate by an explicit model calculation that the decay of entanglement of two two-state systems (two qubits) is governed by the product of the factors that measure the degree of decoherence of each of the qubits, subject to independent sources of quantum noise. This demonstrates an important physical property that separated open quantum systems can evolve quantum mechanically on time scales larger than the times for which they remain entangled.

id: quant-ph/0412142
title: Decoherence Rates in Large Scale Quantum Computers and Macroscopic Systems
authors: B J Dalton
comments: Minor revisions. To be published in J Mod Opt. One figure
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52, 2563 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412142
abstract: Markovian regime decoherence effects in quantum computers are studied in terms of the fidelity for the situation where the number of qubits N becomes large. A general expression giving the decoherence time scale in terms of Markovian relaxation elements and expectation values of products of system fluctuation operators is obtained, which could also be applied to study decoherence in other macroscopic systems such as Bose condensates and superconductors. A standard circuit model quantum computer involving three-state lambda system ionic qubits is considered, with qubits localised around well-separated positions via trapping potentials. The centre of mass vibrations of the qubits act as a reservoir. Coherent one and two qubit gating processes are controlled by time dependent localised classical electromagnetic fields that address specific qubits, the two qubit gating processes being facilitated by a cavity mode ancilla, which permits state interchange between qubits. With a suitable choice of parameters, it is found that the decoherence time can be made essentially independent of N.

id: quant-ph/0412143
title: Limits on Efficient Computation in the Physical World
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: UC Berkeley PhD thesis, 258 pages. Some minor errors fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412143
abstract: More than a speculative technology, quantum computing seems to challenge our most basic intuitions about how the physical world should behave. In this thesis I show that, while some intuitions from classical computer science must be jettisoned in the light of modern physics, many others emerge nearly unscathed; and I use powerful tools from computational complexity theory to help determine which are which.

id: quant-ph/0412144
title: Non-unitary evolution of a pure state into a mixed state in the measurement problem from standard Quantum Mechanics and its impact on complex space-time, no-boundary proposal and information loss paradox of singularity-free Quantum Cosmology
authors: Pradip Kumar Chatterjee
comments: 40 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412144
abstract: In order to resolve the measurement problem of Quantum Mechanics, non-unitary time evolution has been derived from the unitarity of standard quantum formalism. New wave functions of free and non-free quantum systems follow from Schroedinger equation after inserting an ansatz. Quantum systems show up as probability waves before measurement. A pure entangled state of a composite system evolves non-unitarily, only to disentangle itself into a definite state after reduction at the measurement point. A classical space-time point is created momentarily in this event. Unitarity is restored at that point. The non-Hermitian observables defined in the domain of rigged Hilbert space transform into Hermitian ones at the measurement point. The problem of preferred basis is resolved by the requirement of specifying the position of measurement point. Two theorems prove that time is a non-Hermitian operator, thus placing space and time on an equal footing. Bound states are found to need discrete space-time, which supports its use in loop quantum gravity. Non-unitarity in the theory helps buttress the no-boundary proposal; and uncertainty relation makes a leeway to singularity-free Quantum Cosmology. Quantum Mechanics also accommodates complex and negative probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0412145
title: Non-relativistic classical mechanics for spinning particles
authors: G. Salesi
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A 20, 2027 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412145
abstract: We study the classical dynamics of non-relativistic particles endowed with spin. Non-vanishing Zitterbewegung terms appear in the equation of motion also in the small momentum limit. We derive a generalized work-energy theorem which suggests classical interpretations for tunnel effect and quantum potential.

id: quant-ph/0412146
title: Tunnelling times: An elementary introduction
authors: G. Privitera, G. Salesi, V.S. Olkhovsky, E. Recami
comments: LaTeX; 67 pages
journal: Rivista del Nuovo Cimento vol.26, n.4 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412146
abstract: In this paper we examine critically and in detail some existing definitions for the tunnelling times, namely: the phase-time; the centroid-based times; the Buttiker and Landauer times; the Larmor times; the complex (path-integral and Bohm) times; the dwell time, and finally the generalized (Olkhovsky and Recami) dwell time, by adding also some numerical evaluations. Then, we pass to examine the equivalence between quantum tunnelling and "photon tunnelling" (evanescent waves propagation), with particular attention to tunnelling with Superluminal group-velocities ("Hartman effect"). At last, in an Appendix, we add a bird-eye view of all the experimental sectors of physics in which Superluminal motions seem to appear.

id: quant-ph/0412147
title: Is Quantum Suicide Painless? On an Apparent Violation of The Principal Principle
authors: Milan M. Cirkovic
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412147
abstract: The experimental setup of the self-referential quantum measurement, jovially known as the "quantum suicide" or the "quantum Russian roulette" is analyzed from the point of view of the Principal Principle of David Lewis. It is shown that the apparent violation of this principle--relating objective probabilities and subjective chance--in this type of thought experiment is just an illusion due to the usage of some terms and concepts ill-defined in the quantum context. We conclude that even in the case that Everett's (or some other "no-collapse") theory is a correct description of reality, we can coherently believe in equating subjective credence with objective chance in quantum-mechanical experiments. This is in agreement with results of the research on personal identity in the quantum context by Parfit and Tappenden.

id: quant-ph/0412148
title: Quantum Mechanics and Reality
authors: Virendra Singh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412148
abstract: We begin by discussing ``What exists?'', i.e. ontology, in Classical Physics which provided a description of physical phenomena at the macroscopic level. The microworld however necessitates a introduction of Quantum ideas for its understanding. It is almost certain that the world is quantum mechanical at both microscopic as well as at macroscopic level. The problem of ontology of a Quantum world is a difficult one. It also depends on which interpretation is used. We first discuss some interpretations in which Quantum Mechanics does not provide a complete framework but has to be supplemented by extra ingredients e.g. (i) Copenhagen group of interpretations associated with the names of Niels Bohr, Heisenberg, von-Neumann, and (ii) de-Broglie-Bohm interpretations. We then look at some interpretations in which Quantum mechanics is supposed to provide the entire framework such as (i) Everett-deWitt many world, (ii) quantum histories interpretations. We conclude with some remarks on the rigidity of the formalism of quantum mechanics, which is sharp contrast to it's ontological fluidity.

id: quant-ph/0412149
title: Quantum Non-demolition Measurements on Qubits
authors: T.C.Ralph, S.D.Bartlett, J.L.O'Brien, G.J.Pryde, H.M.Wiseman
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A73:012113,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412149
abstract: We discuss the characterization and properties of quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements on qubit systems. We introduce figures of merit which can be applied to systems of any Hilbert space dimension thus providing universal criteria for characterizing QND measurements. We discuss the controlled-NOT gate and an optical implementation as examples of QND devices for qubits. We also discuss the QND measurement of weak values.

id: quant-ph/0412150
title: Coherent states for the q-deformed quantum mechanics on a circle
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 11 pages, 2 PostScript figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 11447--11455
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412150
abstract: The q-deformed coherent states for a quantum particle on a circle are introduced and their properties investigated.

id: quant-ph/0412151
title: Full characterization of a three-photon GHZ state using quantum state tomography
authors: Kevin J. Resch, Philip Walther, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 070402 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412151
abstract: We have performed the first experimental tomographic reconstruction of a three-photon polarization state. Quantum state tomography is a powerful tool for fully describing the density matrix of a quantum system. We measured 64 three-photon polarization correlations and used a "maximum-likelihood" reconstruction method to reconstruct the GHZ state. The entanglement class has been characterized using an entanglement witness operator and the maximum predicted values for the Mermin inequality was extracted.

id: quant-ph/0412152
title: Separability for lattice systems at high temperature
authors: H. Narnhofer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412152
abstract: Equilibrium states of infinite extended lattice systems at high temperature are studied with respect to their entanglement. Two notions of separability are offered. They coincide for finite systems but differ for infinitely extended ones. It is shown that for lattice systems with localized interaction for high enough temperature there exists no local entanglement. Even more quasifree states at high temperature are also not distillably entangled for all local regions of arbitrary size. For continuous systems entanglement survives for all temperatures. In mean field theories it is possible, that local regions are not entangled but the entanglement is hidden in the fluctuation algebra.

id: quant-ph/0412153
title: Modulational instability of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates in an optical lattice
authors: Guang-Ri Jin, Chul Koo Kim, Kyun Nahm
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (to be published in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 045601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412153
abstract: We study modulational instability of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates in an optical lattice, which is modelled as a coupled discrete nonlinear Schr \"{o}dinger equation. The excitation spectrum and the modulational instability condition of the total system are presented analytically. In the long-wavelength limit, our results agree with the homogeneous two-component Bose-Einstein condensates case. The discreteness effects result in the appearance of the modulational instability for the condensates in miscible region. The numerical calculations confirm our analytical results and show that the interspecies coupling can transfer the instability from one component to another.

id: quant-ph/0412154
title: Intrinsic time-uncertainties and decoherence: comparison of 4 models
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 7pp, 2 figs; Talk given at International Workshop DICE2004 (Piombino, Sept 1-4, 2004); Minor changes in quotations
journal: Braz.J.Phys.35:260-265,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412154
abstract: Four models of energy decoherence are discussed from the common perspective of intrinsic time-uncertainty. The four authors -- Milburn, Adler, Penrose, and myself -- have four different approaches. The present work concentrates on their common divisors at the level of the proposed equations rather than at the level of the interpretations. General relationships between time-uncertainty and energy-decoherence are presented in both global and local sense. Global and local master equations are derived. (The local concept is favored.)

id: quant-ph/0412155
title: State estimation on correlated copies
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Previous results were correct only in special cases. New correct formula for the fidelity has an absolute value sign added. New states optimal for state estimation are derived. Slightly changed notation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062321 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412155
abstract: State estimation is usually analyzed in the situation when copies are in a product state, either mixed or pure. We investigate here the concept of state estimation on correlated copies. We analyze state estimation on correlated N qubit states, which are permutationally invariant. Using a correlated state we try to estimate as good as possible the direction of the Bloch vector of a single particle reduced density matrix. We derive the optimal fidelity for all permutation invariant states. We find the optimal state, which yields the highest estimation fidelity among the states with the same reduced density matrix. Interestingly this state is not a product state. We also point out that states produced by optimal universal cloning machines are the worst form the point of view of estimating the reduced density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0412156
title: Toward a more economical cluster state quantum computation
authors: M. S. Tame, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, V. Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4; proposal for experimental setup included
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 4 (2006) 689-703
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412156
abstract: We assess the effects of an intrinsic model for imperfections in cluster states by introducing {\it noisy cluster states} and characterizing their role in the one-way model for quantum computation. The action of individual dephasing channels on cluster qubits is also studied. We show that the effect of non-idealities is limited by using small clusters, which requires compact schemes for computation. In light of this, we address an experimentally realizable four-qubit linear cluster which simulates a controlled-{\sf NOT} ({\sf CNOT}).

id: quant-ph/0412157
title: A quantum version of Sanov's theorem
authors: I. Bjelakovic, J.-D. Deuschel, T. Krueger, R. Seiler, Ra. Siegmund-Schultze, A. Szkola
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412157
abstract: We present a quantum extension of a version of Sanov's theorem focussing on a hypothesis testing aspect of the theorem: There exists a sequence of typical subspaces for a given set $\Psi$ of stationary quantum product states asymptotically separating them from another fixed stationary product state. Analogously to the classical case, the exponential separating rate is equal to the infimum of the quantum relative entropy with respect to the quantum reference state over the set $\Psi$. However, while in the classical case the separating subsets can be chosen universal, in the sense that they depend only on the chosen set of i.i.d. processes, in the quantum case the choice of the separating subspaces depends additionally on the reference state.

id: quant-ph/0412158
title: Entanglement under restricted operations: Analogy to mixed-state entanglement
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty, Robert W. Spekkens, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 022311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412158
abstract: We show that the classification of bi-partite pure entangled states when local quantum operations are restricted yields a structure that is analogous in many respects to that of mixed-state entanglement. Specifically, we develop this analogy by restricting operations through local superselection rules, and show that such exotic phenomena as bound entanglement and activation arise using pure states in this setting. This analogy aids in resolving several conceptual puzzles in the study of entanglement under restricted operations. In particular, we demonstrate that several types of quantum optical states that possess confusing entanglement properties are analogous to bound entangled states. Also, the classification of pure-state entanglement under restricted operations can be much simpler than for mixed-state entanglement. For instance, in the case of local Abelian superselection rules all questions concerning distillability can be resolved.

id: quant-ph/0412159
title: The Quantum Emergence of Chaos
authors: Salman Habib, Kurt Jacobs, Kosuke Shizume
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 010403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412159
abstract: The dynamical status of isolated quantum systems, partly due to the linearity of the Schrodinger equation is unclear: Conventional measures fail to detect chaos in such systems. However, when quantum systems are subjected to observation -- as all experimental systems must be -- their dynamics is no longer linear and, in the appropriate limit(s), the evolution of expectation values, conditioned on the observations, closely approaches the behavior of classical trajectories. Here we show, by analyzing a specific example, that microscopic continuously observed quantum systems, even far from any classical limit, can have a positive Lyapunov exponent, and thus be truly chaotic.

id: quant-ph/0412160
title: Overcoming the EPR paradox
authors: Ghenadie N. Mardari
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, draft format (wide spaced)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412160
abstract: If a quantum property is measured, the corresponding state of an entangled partner is also determined. This means that quanta have real features, even in the absence of direct observation. The problem is to establish is these objective qualities are always well-defined, or exhibit complexity (with many simple states in superposition) as predicted by quantum mechanics. The EPR reality criterion demands the existence of simple properties, even for non-commuting variables. The apparent implication is that Heisenberg's principle can only govern the parameters of measurement outcomes. Yet, the latest results in quantum theory support a different picture: the principle must hold for undetected qualities as well. Here I show a solution to this problem. Well-defined quantum properties can be interpreted as transient net states of superposition between multiple spectral components. Different variables become well-defined at different locations, as predicted by the wave-function, whenever component vectors add up (and/or cancel out) to simple linear states. This approach enables the conclusion that quantum mechanics is complete, without contradicting the tenets of Einstein realism.

id: quant-ph/0412161
title: Remarks on exact solvability of quantum systems with spatially varying effective mass
authors: B. Gonul, M. Ko?ak
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 20, (2005) 2742
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412161
abstract: Within the frame of a novel treatment we make a complete mathematical analysis of exactly solvable one-dimensional quantum systems with non-constant mass, involving their ordering ambiguities. This work extends the results recently reported in the literature and clarifies the relation between physically acceptable effective mass Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0412162
title: A New Algebraic Approach to Perturbation Theory
authors: B. Gonul, N. Celik, E. Olgar
comments: 
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 20 (2005) 1683
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412162
abstract: An algebraic non-perturbative approach is proposed for the analytical treatment of Schr\"{o}dinger equations with a potential that can be expressed in terms of an exactly solvable piece with an additional potential. Avoiding disadvantages of standard approaches, new handy recursion formulae with the same simple form both for ground and excited states have been obtained. As an illustration the procedure, well adapted to the use of computer algebra, is successfully applied to quartic anharmonic oscillators by means of very simple algebraic manipulations. The trend of the exact values of the energies is rather well reproduced for a large range of values of the coupling constant (g=0.001-10000).

id: quant-ph/0412163
title: Casimir Force on a Micrometer Sphere in a Dip: Proposal of an Experiment
authors: I. Brevik, E. K. Dahl, G. O. Myhr
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys.A38:L49-L56,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412163
abstract: The attractive Casimir force acting on a micrometer-sphere suspended in a spherical dip, close to the wall, is discussed. This setup is in principle directly accessible to experiment. The sphere and the substrate are assumed to be made of the same perfectly conducting material.

id: quant-ph/0412164
title: Bi-partite and global entanglement in a many-particle system with collective spin coupling
authors: R. G. Unanyan, C. Ionescu, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412164
abstract: Bipartite and global entanglement are analyzed for the ground state of a system of $N$ spin 1/2 particles interacting via a collective spin-spin coupling described by the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) Hamiltonian. Under certain conditions which includes the special case of a super-symmetry, the ground state can be constructed analytically. In the case of an anti-ferromagnetic coupling and for an even number of particles this state undergoes a smooth crossover as a function of the continuous anisotropy parameter $\gamma $ from a separable ($\gamma =\infty $) to a maximally entangled many-particle state ($\gamma =0$). From the analytic expression for the ground state, bipartite and global entanglement are calculated. In the thermodynamic limit a discontinuous change of the scaling behavior of the bipartite entanglement is found at the isotropy point $\gamma =0$. For $% \gamma =0$ the entanglement grows logarithmically with the system size with no upper bound, for $\gamma \neq 0$ it saturates at a level only depending on $\gamma $. For finite systems with total spin $J=N/2$ the scaling behavior changes at $\gamma =\gamma _{\mathrm{crit}}=1/J$.

id: quant-ph/0412165
title: How to build a 300 bit, 1 Giga-operation quantum computer
authors: Andrew M. Steane
comments: 13 pages 1 figure. New version has some minor clarifications, and treats Rayleigh/Raman scattering separately for decoherence estimate
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7(3):171-183 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412165
abstract: Experimental methods for laser-control of trapped ions have reached sufficient maturity that it is possible to set out in detail a design for a large quantum computer based on such methods, without any major omissions or uncertainties. The main features of such a design are given, with a view to identifying areas for study. The machine is based on 13000 ions moved via 20 micron vacuum channels around a chip containing 160000 electrodes and associated classical control circuits; 1000 laser beam pairs are used to manipulate the hyperfine states of the ions and drive fluorescence for readout. The computer could run a quantum algorithm requiring 10^9 logical operations on 300 logical qubits, with a physical gate rate of 1 MHz and a logical gate rate of 8 kHz, using methods for quantum gates that have already been experimentally implemented. Routes for faster operation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412166
title: Creating Ground State Molecules with Optical Feshbach Resonances in Tight Traps
authors: Christiane P. Koch Fran?oise Masnou-Seeuws Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 193001 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412166
abstract: We propose to create ultracold ground state molecules in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate by adiabatic crossing of an optical Feshbach resonance. We envision a scheme where the laser intensity and possibly also frequency are linearly ramped over the resonance. Our calculations for $^{87}$Rb show that for sufficiently tight traps it is possible to avoid spontaneous emission while retaining adiabaticity, and conversion efficiencies of up to 50% can be expected.

id: quant-ph/0412167
title: Multi-distributed Entanglement in Finitely Correlated Chains
authors: F. Benatti, B.C. Hiesmayr, H. Narnhofer
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Eur.Phys.Lett
journal: Eur.Phys. Lett. 72 (1), 28 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412167
abstract: The entanglement-sharing properties of an infinite spin-chain are studied when the state of the chain is a pure, translation-invariant state with a matrix-product structure. We study the entanglement properties of such states by means of their finitely correlated structure. These states are recursively constructed by means of an auxiliary density matrix \rho on a matrix algebra B and a completely positive map E: A \otimes B -> B, where A is the spin 2\times 2 matrix algebra. General structural results for the infinite chain are therefore obtained by explicit calculations in (finite) matrix algebras. In particular, we study not only the entanglement shared by nearest-neighbours, but also, differently from previous works, the entanglement shared between connected regions of the spin-chain. This range of possible applications is illustrated and the maximal concurrence C=1/\sqrt{2} for the entanglement of connected regions can actually be reached.

id: quant-ph/0412168
title: A Study on the Noise Threshold of Fault-tolerant Quantum Error Correction
authors: Y. C. Cheng, R. J. Silbey
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures; to be submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412168
abstract: Quantum circuits implementing fault-tolerant quantum error correction (QEC) for the three qubit bit-flip code and five-qubit code are studied. To describe the effect of noise, we apply a model based on a generalized effective Hamiltonian where the system-environment interactions are taken into account by including stochastic fluctuating terms in the system Hamiltonian. This noise model enables us to investigate the effect of noise in quantum circuits under realistic device conditions and avoid strong assumptions such as maximal parallelism and weak storage errors. Noise thresholds of the QEC codes are calculated. In addition, the effects of imprecision in projective measurements, collective bath, fault-tolerant repetition protocols, and level of parallelism in circuit constructions on the threshold values are also studied with emphasis on determining the optimal design for the fault-tolerant QEC circuit. These results provide insights into the fault-tolerant QEC process as well as useful information for designing the optimal fault-tolerant QEC circuit for particular physical implementation of quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0412169
title: Generation of quantum logic operations from physical Hamiltonians
authors: Jun Zhang, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412169
abstract: We provide a systematic analysis of the physical generation of single- and two-qubit quantum operations from Hamiltonians available in various quantum systems for scalable quantum information processing. We show that generation of one-qubit operations can be transformed into a steering problem on the Bloch sphere, whereas the two-qubit problem can be generally transformed into a steering problem in a tetrahedron representing all the local equivalence classes of two-qubit operations (the Weyl chamber). We use this approach to investigate several physical examples for the generation of two-qubit operations. The steering approach provides useful guidance for the realization of various quantum computation schemes.

id: quant-ph/0412170
title: Criteria for quantum coherent transfer of excitons between chromophores in a polar solvent
authors: Joel Gilmore, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412170
abstract: We show that the quantum decoherence of Forster resonant energy transfer between two optically active molecules can be described by a spin-boson model. This allows us to give quantitative criteria, in terms of experimentally measurable system parameters, that are necessary for coherent Bloch oscillations of excitons between the chromophores. Experimental tests of our results should be possible with Flourescent Resonant Energy Transfer (FRET) spectroscopy. Although we focus on the case of protein-pigment complexes our results are also relevant to quantum dots and organic molecules in a dielectric medium.

id: quant-ph/0412171
title: Quantum key distribution over 122 km of standard telecom fiber
authors: C. Gobby, Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 84, 3762-3764(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412171
abstract: We report the first demonstration of quantum key distribution over a standard telecom fiber exceeding 100 km in length. Through careful optimisation of the interferometer and single photon detector, we achieve a quantum bit error ratio of 8.9% for a 122km link, allowing a secure shared key to be formed after error correction and privacy amplification. Key formation rates of up to 1.9 kbit/sec are achieved depending upon fiber length. We discuss the factors limiting the maximum fiber length in quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0412172
title: Algorithmic complexity of quantum states
authors: C. Mora, H. J. Briegel
comments: 24 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412172
abstract: In this paper we give a definition for the Kolmogorov complexity of a pure quantum state. In classical information theory the algorithmic complexity of a string is a measure of the information needed by a universal machine to reproduce the string itself. We define the complexity of a quantum state by means of the classical description complexity of an (abstract) experimental procedure that allows us to prepare the state with a given fidelity. We argue that our definition satisfies the intuitive idea of complexity as a measure of ``how difficult'' it is to prepare a state. We apply this definition to give an upper bound on the algorithmic complexity of a number of states.

id: quant-ph/0412173
title: Unconditionally secure quantum key distribution over 50km of standard telecom fibre
authors: C. Gobby, Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields
comments: 9 pages 2 figures
journal: Electronics Letters 40, 1603-1605(2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412173
abstract: We demonstrate a weak pulse quantum key distribution system using the BB84 protocol which is secure against all individual attacks, including photon number splitting. By carefully controlling the weak pulse intensity we demonstrate the maximum secure bit rate as a function of the fibre length. Unconditionally secure keys can be formed for standard telecom fibres exceeding 50 km in length.

id: quant-ph/0412174
title: Quasi exactly solvable quantum lattice solitons
authors: Y. Brihaye, N. Debergh, A. Nininahazwe
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, results extended
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A21 (2006) 1221-1238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412174
abstract: We extend the exactly solvable Hamiltonian describing $f$ quantum oscillators considered recently by J. Dorignac et al. by means of a new interaction which we choose as quasi exactly solvable. The properties of the spectrum of this new Hamiltonian are studied as function of the new coupling constant. This Hamiltonian as well as the original one are also related to adequate Lie structures.

id: quant-ph/0412175
title: Quantum mechanics needs no interpretation
authors: L. Skala, V. Kapsa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412175
abstract: Probabilistic description of results of measurements and its consequences for understanding quantum mechanics are discussed. It is shown that the basic mathematical structure of quantum mechanics like the probability amplitude, Born rule, probability density current, commutation relations, momentum operator, uncertainty relations, rules for including the scalar and vector potentials and existence of antiparticles can be derived from the definition of the mean values of the space coordinates and time. Equations of motion of quantum mechanics, the Klein-Gordon equation, Schroedinger equation and Dirac equation are obtained from requirement of the relativistic invariance of the theory. Limit case of localized probability densities leads to the Hamilton-Jacobi equation of classical mechanics. Many particle systems are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0412176
title: Quantum simulator for the $\f{O(3)}$ nonlinear sigma model
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Sarah Mostame
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 1 figure
journal: JETP Lett. 82 (2005) 248-252; Pisma Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 82 (2005) 279-283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412176
abstract: We propose a design for the construction of a laboratory system based on present-day technology which reproduces and thereby simulates the quantum dynamics of the O(3) nonlinear sigma model. Apart from its relevance in condensed-matter theory, this strongly interacting quantum field theory serves as an important toy model for quantum chromo-dynamics (QCD) since it reproduces many crucial properties of QCD. PACS: 03.67.-a, 03.67.Lx, 11.10.Kk, 68.65.-k.

id: quant-ph/0412177
title: The Computational Power of the W and GHZ states
authors: Ellie D'Hondt, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 11 pages, substantial rewrite based on referee reports
journal: Journ. Quantum Inf. and Comp., vol. 6(2), pages 173-183, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412177
abstract: It is well understood that the use of quantum entanglement significantly enhances the computational power of systems. Much of the attention has focused on Bell states and their multipartite generalizations. However, in the multipartite case it is known that there are several inequivalent classes of states, such as those represented by the W-state and the GHZ-state. Our main contribution is a demonstration of the special computational power of these states in the context of paradigmatic problems from classical distributed computing. Concretely, we show that the W-state is the only pure state that can be used to exactly solve the problem of leader election in anonymous quantum networks. Similarly we show that the GHZ-state is the only one that can be used to solve the problem of distributed consensus when no classical post-processing is considered. These results generalize to a family of W- and GHZ-like states. At the heart of the proofs of these impossibility results lie symmetry arguments.

id: quant-ph/0412178
title: Pre- and Post-selection paradoxes and contextuality in quantum mechanics
authors: M. S. Leifer, R. W. Spekkens
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. v2.0 revised in the light of referee comments, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 200405 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412178
abstract: Many seemingly paradoxical effects are known in the predictions for outcomes of intermediate measurements made on pre- and post-selected quantum systems. Despite appearances, these effects do not demonstrate the impossibility of a noncontextual hidden variable theory, since an explanation in terms of measurement-disturbance is possible. Nonetheless, we show that for every paradoxical effect wherein all the pre- and post- selected probabilities are 0 or 1 and the pre- and post-selected states are nonorthogonal, there is an associated proof of contextuality. This proof is obtained by considering all the measurements involved in the paradoxical effect -- the pre-selection, the post-selection, and the alternative possible intermediate measurements -- as alternative possible measurements at a single time.

id: quant-ph/0412179
title: Logical Pre- and Post-Selection paradoxes, measurement-disturbance and contextuality
authors: M. S. Leifer, R. W. Spekkens
comments: 9 pages, paper presented at Quantum Structures 2004
journal: Proceedings of QS 2004, Int. J. Theor. Phys. 44:1977-1987 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412179
abstract: Many seemingly paradoxical effects are known in the predictions for outcomes of measurements made on pre- and post-selected quantum systems. A class of such effects, which we call ``logical pre- and post-selection paradoxes'', bear a striking resemblance to proofs of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem, which suggests that they demonstrate the contextuality of quantum mechanics. Despite the apparent similarity, we show that such effects can occur in noncontextual hidden variable theories, provided measurements are allowed to disturb the values of the hidden variables.

id: quant-ph/0412180
title: On the Complementarity Principle
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412180
abstract: We present a scheme in which we investigate the two-slit experiment and the the principle of complementarity.

id: quant-ph/0412181
title: Extracting Atoms on Demand with Lasers
authors: Bernd Mohring, Marc Bienert, Florian Haug, Giovanna Morigi, Wolfgang P. Schleich, Mark G. Raizen
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 053601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412181
abstract: We propose a scheme that allows to coherently extract cold atoms from a reservoir in a deterministic way. The transfer is achieved by means of radiation pulses coupling two atomic states which are object to different trapping conditions. A particular realization is proposed, where one state has zero magnetic moment and is confined by a dipole trap, whereas the other state with non-vanishing magnetic moment is confined by a steep microtrap potential. We show that in this setup a predetermined number of atoms can be transferred from a reservoir, a Bose-Einstein condensate, into the collective quantum state of the steep trap with high efficiency in the parameter regime of present experiments.

id: quant-ph/0412182
title: The Pondicherry interpretation of quantum mechanics: An overview
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 18 pages, 1 eps figure, v3: with corrections made in proof
journal: Pramana 64 (2), 171-185 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412182
abstract: An overview of the Pondicherry interpretation of quantum mechanics is presented. This interpretation proceeds from the recognition that the fundamental theoretical framework of physics is a probability algorithm, which serves to describe an objective fuzziness (the literal meaning of Heisenberg's term "Unschaerfe," usually mistranslated as "uncertainty") by assigning objective probabilities to the possible outcomes of unperformed measurements. Although it rejects attempts to construe quantum states as evolving ontological states, it arrives at an objective description of the quantum world that owes nothing to observers or the goings-on in physics laboratories. In fact, unless such attempts are rejected, quantum theory's true ontological implications cannot be seen. Among these are the radically relational nature of space, the numerical identity of the corresponding relata, the incomplete spatiotemporal differentiation of the physical world, and the consequent top-down structure of reality, which defies attempts to model it from the bottom up, whether on the basis of an intrinsically differentiated spacetime manifold or out of a multitude of individual building blocks.

id: quant-ph/0412183
title: Quantum information storage and state transfer based on spin systems
authors: Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, Review article on the quantum spin based quantum information processing, to appear the special issue of Low Temperature Physics dedicated to the 70-th anniversary of creation of concept "antiferromagnetism" in physics of magnetism
journal: Fizika Nizkikh Temperatur, 2005, v. 31, Nos. 8/9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412183
abstract: The idea of quantum state storage is generalized to describe the coherent transfer of quantum information through a coherent data bus. In this universal framework, we comprehensively review our recent systematical investigations to explore the possibility of implementing the physical processes of quantum information storage and state transfer by using quantum spin systems, which may be an isotropic antiferromagnetic spin ladder system or a ferromagnetic Heisenberg spin chain. Our studies emphasize the physical mechanisms and the fundamental problems behind the various protocols for the storage and transfer of quantum information in solid state systems.

id: quant-ph/0412184
title: Characterization of the non-classical nature of conditionally prepared single photons
authors: Alfred B. U'Ren, Christine Silberhorn, Jonathan L. Ball, Konrad Banaszek, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages; 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 R021802 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412184
abstract: A reliable single photon source is a prerequisite for linear optical quantum computation and for secure quantum key distribution. A criterion yielding a conclusive test of the single photon character of a given source, attainable with realistic detectors, is therefore highly desirable. In the context of heralded single photon sources, such a criterion should be sensitive to the effects of higher photon number contributions, and to vacuum introduced through optical losses, which tend to degrade source performance. In this paper we present, theoretically and experimentally, a criterion meeting the above requirements.

id: quant-ph/0412185
title: Schroedinger Cat States of a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: L. Tian
comments: 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 195411 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412185
abstract: We present a scheme of generating large-amplitude Schr\"{o}dinger cat states and entanglement in a coupled system of nanomechanical resonator and single Cooper pair box (SCPB), without being limited by the magnitude of the coupling. It is shown that the entanglement between the resonator and the SCPB can be detected by a spectroscopic method.

id: quant-ph/0412186
title: Scalable Ion Trap Quantum Computing without Moving Ions
authors: L. Tian, R. Blatt, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys. D 32, 201 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412186
abstract: A hybrid quantum computing scheme is studied where the hybrid qubit is made of an ion trap qubit serving as the information storage and a solid-state charge qubit serving as the quantum processor, connected by a superconducting cavity. In this paper, we extend our previous work [1] and study the decoherence, coupling and scalability of the hybrid system. We present our calculations of the decoherence of the coupled ion - charge system due to the charge fluctuations in the solid-state system and the dissipation of the superconducting cavity under laser radiation. A gate scheme that exploits rapid state flips of the charge qubit to reduce decoherence by the charge noise is designed. We also study a superconducting switch that is inserted between the cavity and the charge qubit and provides tunable coupling between the qubits. The scalability of the hybrid scheme is discussed together with several potential experimental obstacles in realizing this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0412187
title: Quantum Computing, Postselection, and Probabilistic Polynomial-Time
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. Supersedes the computational results in quant-ph/0401062
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412187
abstract: I study the class of problems efficiently solvable by a quantum computer, given the ability to "postselect" on the outcomes of measurements. I prove that this class coincides with a classical complexity class called PP, or Probabilistic Polynomial-Time. Using this result, I show that several simple changes to the axioms of quantum mechanics would let us solve PP-complete problems efficiently. The result also implies, as an easy corollary, a celebrated theorem of Beigel, Reingold, and Spielman that PP is closed under intersection, as well as a generalization of that theorem due to Fortnow and Reingold. This illustrates that quantum computing can yield new and simpler proofs of major results about classical computation.

id: quant-ph/0412188
title: Asymmetric universal entangling machine
authors: Dmitri Horoshko, Mikhail Kolobov, Sergei Kilin
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 103, 153-164 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412188
abstract: We give a definition of asymmetric universal entangling machine which entangles a system in an unknown state to a specially prepared ancilla. The machine produces a fixed state-independent amount of entanglement in exchange to a fixed degradation of the system state fidelity. We describe explicitly such a machine for any quantum system having $d$ levels and prove its optimality. We show that a $d^2$-dimensional ancilla is sufficient for reaching optimality. The introduced machine is a generalization to a number of widely investigated universal quantum devices such as the symmetric and asymmetric quantum cloners, the symmetric quantum entangler, the quantum information distributor and the universal-NOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0412189
title: Interpolating statistics realized as Deformed Harmonic Oscillators
authors: P. Narayana Swamy
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412189
abstract: The idea that a system obeying interpolating statistics can be described by a deformed oscillator algebra has been an outstanding issue. This original concept introduced long ago by Greenberg is the motivation for this investigation. We establish that a q-deformed algebra can be used to describe the statistics of particles (anyons) interpolating continuously between Bose and Fermi statistics, i.e., fractional statistics. We show that the generalized intermediate statistics splits into the Boson-like and Fermion-like regimes, each described by a unique oscillator algebra. The B-anyon thermostatistics is described by employing the q-calculus based on the Jackson derivative but the F-anyons are described by ordinary derivatives of thermodynamics. Thermodynamic functions of both B-anyons and F-anyons are determined and examined.

id: quant-ph/0412190
title: Four wave mixing with self-phase matching due to collective atomic recoil
authors: G.R.M. Robb, B.W.J. McNeil
comments: to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412190
abstract: We describe a method for non-degenerate four-wave mixing in a cold sample of 4-level atoms. An integral part of the four-wave mixing process is a collective instability which spontaneously generates a periodic density modulation in the cold atomic sample with a period equal to half of the wavelength of the generated high-frequency optical field. Due to the generation of this density modulation, phase-matching between the pump and scattered fields is not a necessary initial condition for this wave-mixing process to occur, rather the density modulation acts to "self phase-match" the fields during the course of the wave-mixing process. We describe a one-dimensional model of this process, and suggest a proof-of-principle experiment which would involve pumping a sample of cold Cs atoms with three infra-red pump fields to produce blue light.

id: quant-ph/0412191
title: Quantum correlations in the soliton collisions
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 035801 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412191
abstract: We study quantum correlations and quantum noise in the soliton collision described by a general two-soliton solution of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation, by using the back-propagation method. Our results include the standard case of a $sech$-shaped initial pulse analyzed earlier. We reveal that double-hump initial pulses can get more squeezed, and the squeezing ratio enhancement is due to the long collision period in which the pulses are more stationary. These results offer promising possibilities of using higher-order solitons to generate strongly squeezed states for the quantum information process and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0412192
title: Why is Schrodinger's Equation Linear?
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 3 pages; Presented at the DICE 2004 workshop; Sept 2004, Piombino Italy. Minor corrections: this is the proceedings Version
journal: Braz.J.Phys. 35 (2005) 494-496
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412192
abstract: Information-theoretic arguments are used to obtain a link between the accurate linearity of Schrodinger's equation and Lorentz invariance: A possible violation of the latter at short distances would imply the appearance of nonlinear corrections to quantum theory. Nonlinear corrections can also appear in a Lorentz invariant theory in the form of higher derivative terms that are determined by a length scale, possibly the Planck length. It is suggested that the best place to look for evidence of such quantum nonlinear effects is in neutrino physics and cosmology.

id: quant-ph/0412193
title: Multi-particle entanglement manipulation under positive partial transpose preserving operations
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 12 pages and 1 figure (accepted version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412193
abstract: We consider the transformation of multi-partite states in the single copy setting under positive-partial-transpose-preserving operations (PPT-operations) and obtain both qualitative and quantitative results. Firstly, for some pure state transformations that are impossible under local operations and classical communication (LOCC), we demonstrate that they become possible with a surprisingly large success probability under PPT-operations. Furthermore, we clarify the convertibility of arbitrary multipartite pure states under PPT-operations, and show that a drastic simplification in the classification of pure state entanglement occurs when the set of operations is switched from LOCC to PPT-operations. Indeed, the infinitely many types of LOCC-incomparable entanglement are reduced to only one type under the action of PPT-operations. This is a clear manifestation of the increased power afforded by the use of PPT-bound entanglement. In addition, we further enlarge the set of operations to clarify the effect of another type of bound entanglement, multipartite unlockable bound entanglement, and show that a further simplification occurs. As compared to pure states a more complicated situation emerges in the mixed state settings. While single copy distillation becomes possible under PPT-operations for some mixed states it remains impossible for other mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0412194
title: What is Probability?
authors: Simon Saunders
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412194
abstract: Probabilities may be subjective or objective; we are concerned with both kinds of probability, and the relationship between them. The fundamental theory of objective probability is quantum mechanics: it is argued that neither Bohr's Copenhagen interpretation, nor the pilot-wave theory, nor stochastic state-reduction theories, give a satisfactory answer to the question of what objective probabilities are in quantum mechanics, or why they should satisfy the Born rule; nor do they give any reason why subjective probabilities should track objective ones. But it is shown that if probability only arises with decoherence, then they must be given by the Born rule. That further, on the Everett interpretation, we have a clear statement of what probabilities are, in terms of purely categorical physical properties; and finally, along lines recently laid out by Deutsch and Wallace, that there is a clear basis in the axioms of decision theory as to why subjective probabilities should track these objective ones. These results hinge critically on the absence of hidden-variables or any other mechanism (such as state-reduction) from the physical interpretation of the theory. The account of probability has traditionally been considered the principal weakness of the Everett interpretation; on the contrary it emerges as one of its principal strengths.

id: quant-ph/0412195
title: Complementarity and Scientific Rationality
authors: Simon Saunders
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412195
abstract: Bohr's interpretation of quantum mechanics has been criticized as incoherent and opportunistic, and based on doubtful philosophical premises. If so Bohr's influence, in the pre-war period of 1927-1939, is the harder to explain, and the acceptance of his approach to quantum mechanics over de Broglie's had no reasonable foundation. But Bohr's interpretation changed little from the time of its first appearance, and stood independent of any philosophical presuppositions. The principle of complementarity is itself best read as a conjecture of unusually wide scope, on the nature and future course of explanations in the sciences (and not only the physical sciences). If it must be judged a failure today, it is not because of any internal inconsistency.

id: quant-ph/0412196
title: Algorithmic approach to quantum physics
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 41 pages, LATEX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412196
abstract: Algorithmic approach is based on the assumption that any quantum evolution of many particle system can be simulated on a classical computer with the polynomial time and memory cost. Algorithms play the central role here but not the analysis, and a simulation gives a "film" which visualizes many particle quantum dynamics and is demonstrated to a user of the model. Restrictions following from the algorithm theory are considered on a level of fundamental physical laws. Born rule for the calculation of quantum probability as well as the decoherence is derived from the existence of a nonzero minimal value of amplitude module - a grain of amplitude. The limitation on the classical computational resources gives the unified description of quantum dynamics that is not divided to the unitary dynamics and measurements and does not depend on the existence of observer. It is proposed the description of states based on the nesting of particles in each other that permits to account the effects of all levels in the same model. Algorithmic approach admits the possibility of refutation, because it forbids the creation of a scalable quantum computer that is allowed in the conventional quantum formalism.

id: quant-ph/0412197
title: Kochen-Specker Algorithms for Qunits
authors: Mladen Pavicic
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, appeared in Barnett, S.M., Andersson, E., Jeffers, J., Ohberg, P., and Hirota, O., (Eds), QCMC 2004. Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing: The Seventh International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, 25-29 July 2004, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings 734, 2004, pp. 195-198, under the title "Kochen-Specker algorithms for qubits"; qubits changed into qunits here; 3 typos corrected; Web page: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412197
abstract: Algorithms for finding arbitrary sets of Kochen-Specker (KS) qunits (n-level systems) as well as all the remaining vectors in a space of an arbitrary dimension are presented. The algorithms are based on linear MMP diagrams which generate orthogonalities of KS qunits, on an algebraic definition of states on the diagrams, and on nonlinear equations corresponding to MMP diagrams whose solutions are either KS qunits or the remaining vectors of a chosen space depending on whether the diagrams allow 0-1 states or not. The complexity of the algorithms is polynomial. New results obtained with the help of the algorithms are presented.

id: quant-ph/0412198
title: Berry Phase and Adiabatic Breakdown in Optical Modulator
authors: Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412198
abstract: We consider an all in-fiber optical modulator based on a ring resonator configuration. The case of adiabatic to nonadiabatic transition is considered, where the geometrical (Berry) phase acquired in a round trip along the ring changes abruptly by pi. Degradation of the responsivity of the modulator due to finite linewidth of the optical input is discussed. We show that the responsivity of the proposed modulator can be significantly enhanced with optimum design and compare with other configurations.

id: quant-ph/0412199
title: The internal logic of Bell's states
authors: Giulia Battilotti, Paola Zizzi
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures Submitted to CiE 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412199
abstract: We investigate the internal logic of a quantum computer with two qubits, in the two particular cases of non-entanglement (separable states) and maximal entanglement (Bell's states). To this aim, we consider an internal (reversible) measurement which preserves the probabilities by mirroring the states. We then obtain logical judgements for both cases of separable and Bell's states.

id: quant-ph/0412200
title: Coherence Control of Adiabatic Decoherence in a Three-level Atom with Lambda Configuration
authors: Xiao-Shu Liu, Wu Re-bing, Yang Liu, Jing Zhang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 7 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412200
abstract: In this paper, we study the suppression of adiabatic decoherence in a three-level atom with $\Lambda$ configuration using bang-bang control technique. We have given the decoupling bang-bang operation group, and programmed a sequence of periodic radio frequency twinborn pulses to realize the control process. Moreover, we have studied the process with non-ideal situation and established the condition for efficient suppression of adiabatic decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0412201
title: Economical quantum cloning in any dimension
authors: Thomas Durt, Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 8 pages RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052322 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412201
abstract: The possibility of cloning a d-dimensional quantum system without an ancilla is explored, extending on the economical phase-covariant cloning machine found in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 60}, 2764 (1999)] for qubits. We prove the impossibility of constructing an economical version of the optimal universal cloning machine in any dimension. We also show, using an ansatz on the generic form of cloning machines, that the d-dimensional phase-covariant cloner, which optimally clones all uniform superpositions, can be realized economically only in dimension d=2. The used ansatz is supported by numerical evidence up to d=7. An economical phase-covariant cloner can nevertheless be constructed for d>2, albeit with a lower fidelity than that of the optimal cloner requiring an ancilla. Finally, using again an ansatz on cloning machines, we show that an economical version of the Fourier-covariant cloner, which optimally clones the computational basis and its Fourier transform, is also possible only in dimension d=2.

id: quant-ph/0412202
title: Generation of Multi-atom Dicke States with Quasi-unit Probability through the Detection of Cavity Decay
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Zheng-Fu Han, Jie Gao, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 485?C491
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412202
abstract: We propose a scheme to create universal Dicke states of n largely detuned atoms through detecting the leaky photons from an optical cavity. The generation of entangled states in our scheme has quasi-unit success probability, so it has potential practicability based on current or near coming laboratory cavity QED technology.

id: quant-ph/0412203
title: Multiparty Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Yong Li, Zhong-xiao Man
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412203
abstract: Based on a quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) protocol [Phys. Rev. A69(04)052319], we propose a $(n,n)$-threshold scheme of multiparty quantum secret sharing of classical messages (QSSCM) using only single photons. We take advantage of this multiparty QSSCM scheme to establish a scheme of multiparty secret sharing of quantum information (SSQI), in which only all quantum information receivers collaborate can the original qubit be reconstructed. A general idea is also proposed for constructing multiparty SSQI schemes from any QSSCM scheme.

id: quant-ph/0412204
title: Quantum weak values
authors: G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, A. G. White, T. C. Ralph, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.94:220405,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412204
abstract: We experimentally determine weak values for a single photon's polarization, obtained via a weak measurement that employs a two-photon entangling operation, and postselection. The weak values cannot be explained by a semiclassical wave theory, due to the two-photon entanglement. We observe the variation in size of the weak value with measurement strength, obtaining an average measurement of the S_1 Stokes parameter more than an order of magnitude outside of the operator's spectrum for the smallest measurement strengths.

id: quant-ph/0412205
title: Decoherence induced by zero point fluctuations in quantum Brownian motion
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 9 pages, RevTex file; 2 figures. Reference added
journal: Phys.Lett. A336 (2005) 16-24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412205
abstract: We show a completely analytical approach to the decoherence induced by a zero temperature environment on a Brownian test particle. We consider an Omhic environment bilinearly coupled to an oscillator and compute the master equation. From diffusive coefficients, we evaluate the decoherence time for the usual quantum Brownian motion and also for an upside-down oscillator, as a toy model of a quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0412206
title: No-clicking Event in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: W.-Y. Hwang, I.-T. Lim, J.-W. Park
comments: 4 pages, RevTex
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 52, 1726 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412206
abstract: We discuss the `no-clicking' event, which is harmful for legitimate users in Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution: We describe an attack where no-clicking events are utilized in the same way as double-clicking events are utilized in the quantum Trojan-pony attack. We discuss how to deal with the no-clicking events. We discuss how to estimate the security of the protocol against the proposed attack by using a formula involved with the fraction of adversarial removals of events.

id: quant-ph/0412207
title: Exploring a New Post-Selection Condition for Efficient Linear Optics Quantum Computation
authors: R. Coen Cagli, P. Aniello, N. Cesario, F. Foncellino
comments: 10 pages, 2 eps figures. Submitted to International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf. 3 (2005) 611-621
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412207
abstract: Recently, it was shown that fundamental gates for theoretically efficient quantum information processing can be realized by using single photon sources, linear optics and quantum counters. One of these fundamental gates is the NS-gate, that is, the one-mode non-linear sign shift. In this work, firstly, we prove by a new rigorous proof that the upper bound of success probability of NS-gates with only one helper photon and an undefined number of ancillary modes is bounded by 0.25. Secondly, we explore the upper bound of success probability of NS-gate with a new post-selection measurement. The idea behind this new post-selection measurement is to condition the success of NS-gate transformation to the observation of only one helper photon in whichever of the output modes.

id: quant-ph/0412208
title: Influence of pump-field scattering to nonclassical-light generation in a photonic band-gap nonlinear planar waveguide
authors: Jan Perina Jr., Concita Sibilia, Daniela Tricca, Mario Bertolotti
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 043813 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412208
abstract: Optical parametric process occurring in a nonlinear planar waveguide can serve as a source of light with nonclassical properties. Properties of the generated fields are substantially modified by scattering of the nonlinearly interacting fields in a photonic band-gap structure inside the waveguide. A quantum model of linear operator amplitude corrections to amplitude mean-values provides conditions for an efficient squeezed-light generation as well as generation of light with sub-Poissonian photon-number statistics. Destructive influence of phase mismatch of the nonlinear interaction can fully be compensated using a suitable photonic-band gap structure inside the waveguide. Also an increase of signal-to-noise ratio of an incident optical field can be reached in the waveguide.

id: quant-ph/0412209
title: Local computer model emulating the results of the Pan et al. experiment
authors: Walter Philipp, Guillaume Adenier, Salvador Barraza-Lopez, Karl Hess
comments: 7 pages, no figures, submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412209
abstract: It is a widespread current belief that objective local models can not explain the quantum optics experiment of Pan et al. By presenting a model that operates on independent computers, we show that this belief is unfounded. Three remote computers (Alice, Bob and Claire), that never communicate with each other, send measurement results to a fourth computer that is in charge of collecting the data and computing correlations. The result obtained by our local simulation is in better agreement with the ideal quantum result than the Pan et al. experiment. We also show that the local model presented by Pan et al. that can not explain the quantum results contains inappropriate reasoning with profound consequences for the possible results of any local model that uses probability theory.

id: quant-ph/0412210
title: Simplifying monotonicity conditions for entanglement measures
authors: Michal Horodecki
comments: 4 pages Revtex4
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 12, 231 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412210
abstract: We show that for a convex function the following, rather modest conditions, are equivalent to monotonicity under local operations and classical communication. The conditions are: 1)invariance under local unitaries, 2) invariance under adding local ancilla in arbitrary state 3) on mixtures of states possessing local orthogonal flags the function is equal to its average. The result holds for multipartite systems. It is intriguing that the obtained conditions are equalities. The only inequality is hidden in the condition of convexity.

id: quant-ph/0412211
title: Time Dependent Quadratic Hamiltonians,SU(1,1), SU(2), SU(2,1) and SU(3)
authors: Paul Croxson
comments: This paper is a replacement, new, appendix, sections and references have been added. A version of this paper has been accepted by 'Physics Letters A' on 17th of febuary 2006. It is available from this http URL Title of paper 'Time dependent quadratic Hamiltonians SU(2) and SU(2,1)' author Paul Croxson 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412211
abstract: The properties of SU(1,1) SU(2),SU(2,1) and SU(3) have often been used in quantum optics. In this paper we demonstrate the use of these symmetries. The group properties of SU(1,1) SU(2), and SU(2,1) are used to find the transition probabilities of various time dependent quadratic Hamiltonians. We consider Hamiltonians representing the frequency converter,parametric amplifier and raman scattering.These Hamiltonians are used to describe optical coupling in nonlinear crystals.

id: quant-ph/0412212
title: And what if Bohm was right? The fundamental problem of quantum cryptography and a way to circumvent it
authors: Marek Czachor, Marcin Pawlowski
comments: This paper has been withdrawn. The main technical result will reappear in the new version of quant-ph/0501003
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412212
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn. The main technical result will reappear in the new version of quant-ph/0501003.

id: quant-ph/0412213
title: Particle Statistics in Quantum Information Processing
authors: Y. Omar
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf., Vol. 3, No. 1, 201-205 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412213
abstract: Particle statistics is a fundamental part of quantum physics, and yet its role and use in the context of quantum information have been poorly explored so far. After briefly introducing particle statistics and the Symmetrization Postulate, I will argue that this fundamental aspect of Nature can be seen as a resource for quantum information processing and I will present examples showing how it is possible to do useful and efficient quantum information processing using only the effects of particles statistics.

id: quant-ph/0412214
title: Quantum displacements
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 11 pages, no figures, revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412214
abstract: In this paper, first we explain what are the `quantum displacements'. We establish a group of bases, which contains the coupled bases coupling a ququart and a bipartite qubit systems. By these bases, we can realize the quantum displacements. We discuss some possible forms of them. At last, we point out that a so-call ''non-imprecisely-cloning theorem'' also holds.

id: quant-ph/0412215
title: Quantization of Games: Towards Quantum Artificial Intelligence
authors: Katarzyna Miakisz, Edward W. Piotrowski, Jan Sladkowski
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures; pure LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412215
abstract: On grounds of the discussed material, we reason about possible future development of quantum game theory and its impact on information processing and the emerging information society. The idea of quantum artificial intelligence is explained.

id: quant-ph/0412216
title: Measurement of geometric phase for mixed states using single photon interferometry
authors: Marie Ericsson, Daryl Achilles, Julio T. Barreiro, David Branning, Nicholas A. Peters, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 050401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412216
abstract: Geometric phase may enable inherently fault-tolerant quantum computation. However, due to potential decoherence effects, it is important to understand how such phases arise for {\it mixed} input states. We report the first experiment to measure mixed-state geometric phases in optics, using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, and polarization mixed states that are produced in two different ways: decohering pure states with birefringent elements; and producing a nonmaximally entangled state of two photons and tracing over one of them, a form of remote state preparation.

id: quant-ph/0412217
title: Nanomagnetic Planar Magnetic Resonance Microscopy Lens
authors: Mladen Barbic, Axel Scherer
comments: 16 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412217
abstract: The achievement of three-dimensional atomic resolution magnetic resonance microscopy remains one of the main challenges in the visualization of biological molecules. The prospects for single spin microscopy have come tantalizingly close due to the recent developments in sensitive instrumentation. Despite the single spin detection capability in systems of spatially well-isolated spins, the challenge that remains is the creation of conditions in space where only a single spin is resonant and detected in the presence of other spins in its natural dense spin environment. We present a nanomagnetic planar design where a localized Angstrom-scale point in three-dimensional space is created above the nanostructure with a non-zero minimum of the magnetic field magnitude. The design thereby represents a magnetic resonance microscopy lens where potentially only a single spin located in the focus spot of the structure is resonant. Despite the presence of other spins in the Angstrom-scale vicinity of the resonant spin, the high gradient magnetic field of the lens renders those spins inactive in the detection process.

id: quant-ph/0412218
title: Experimental Free-Space Distribution of Entangled Photon Pairs over a Noisy Ground Atmosphere of 13km
authors: Cheng-Zhi Peng, Tao Yang, Xiao-Hui Bao, Jun-Zhang, Xian-Min Jin, Fa-Yong Feng, Bin Yang, Jian Yang, Juan Yin, Qiang Zhang, Nan Li, Bao-Li Tian, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phy. Rev. Lett. 94, 150501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412218
abstract: We report free-space distribution of entangled photon pairs over a noisy ground atmosphere of 13km. It is shown that the desired entanglement can still survive after the two entangled photons have passed through the noisy ground atmosphere. This is confirmed by observing a space-like separated violation of Bell inequality of $2.45 \pm 0.09$. On this basis, we exploit the distributed entangled photon source to demonstrate the BB84 quantum cryptography scheme. The distribution distance of entangled photon pairs achieved in the experiment is for the first time well beyond the effective thickness of the aerosphere, hence presenting a significant step towards satellite-based global quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0412219
title: Electronic energy transfer: vibrational control and nonlinear wavepacket interferometry
authors: Dmitri S. Kilin, Jeffrey A. Cina, Oleg V. Prezhdo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412219
abstract: The time-development of photoexcitations in molecular aggregates exhibits specific dynamics of electronic states and vibrational wavefunction. We discuss the dynamical formation of entanglement between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in molecular aggregates with theory of electronic energy transfer and the method of vibronic 2D wavepackets [Cina, Kilin, Humble, J. Chem. Phys. 118, 46 (2003)]. The vibronic dynamics is also described by applying Jaynes-Cummings model to the electronic energy transfer [Kilin, Pereverzev, Prezhdo, J. Chem. Phys. 120, 11209 (2004);math-ph/0403023]. Following the ultrafast excitation of donor[chem-ph/9411004] the population of acceptor rises by small portions per each vibrational period, oscillates force and back between donor and acceptor with later damping and partial revivals of this oscillation. The transfer rate gets larger as donor wavepacket approaches the acceptor equilibrium configuration, which is possible at specific energy differences of donor and acceptor and at maximal amount of the vibrational motion along the line that links donor and acceptor equilibria positions. The four-pulse phase-locked nonlinear wavepacket 2D interferograms reflect the shape of the relevant 2D vibronic wavepackets and have maxima at longer delay between excitation pulses for dimers with equal donor-acceptor energy difference compare to dimers with activationless energy configuration [Cina, Fleming, J. Phys. Chem. A. 108, 11196 (2004)].

id: quant-ph/0412220
title: Entanglement Detection by Local Orthogonal Observables
authors: Sixia Yu, Nai-le Liu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412220
abstract: We propose a family of entanglement witnesses and corresponding positive maps that are not completely positive based on local orthogonal observables. As applications the entanglement witness of the $3\times 3$ bound entangled state [P. Horodecki, Phys. Lett. A {\bf 232}, 333 (1997)] is explicitly constructed and a family of $d$-dimensional bound entangled states is designed so that the entanglement can be detected by permuting local orthogonal observables. Further the proposed physically not implementable positive maps can be physically realized by measuring a Hermitian correlation matrix of local orthogonal observables.

id: quant-ph/0412221
title: The most robust entangled state of light
authors: S.J. van Enk, O. Hirota
comments: 9 figures, 7 pages, 2 authors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062322 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0412221
abstract: We study how photon absorption losses degrade the bipartite entanglement of entangled states of light. We consider two questions: (i) what state contains the smallest average number of photons given a fixed amount of entanglement? and (ii) what state is the most robust against photon absorption? We explain why the two-mode squeezed state is the answer to the first question but not quite to the second question.

id: astro-ph/0412503
title: Extreme Test of Quantum Theory with Black Holes
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 10 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0412503
abstract: We propose an extreme test of quantum theory using astrophysical black holes and entangled photons from atomic cascades. The identification of a cascade emission close to a black-hole event horizon would allow us to observe photons entangled with partners that have fallen behind the horizon. The experiment involves testing the characteristic cos^2(theta) modulation of photon transmission through a pair of polarisers at relative angle theta (Malus' law). For single photons, Malus' law is a remarkable feature of quantum theory: it is equivalent to expectation additivity for incompatible observables, and is generically violated for hidden-variables theories with nonstandard probability distributions. An experiment with entangled states straddling an event horizon is motivated by the Hawking information loss puzzle, as well as on general grounds. In principle, one could test the currently observed X-ray photons in iron lines from black-hole accretion discs. However, only a small fraction (~0.6%) have cascade partners, and current X-ray polarimetry does not permit successive measurements on a single X-ray photon. A realisable experiment requires the identification of an appropriate cascade in a more convenient frequency band.

id: cond-mat/0412015
title: Effective magnetic fields in degenerate atomic gases induced by light beams with orbital angular momenta
authors: G. Juzeliunas, P. Ohberg, J. Ruseckas, A. Klein
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures Corrected some mistakes in equations
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 71, 053614 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412015
abstract: We investigate the influence of two resonant laser beams on the mechanical properties of degenerate atomic gases. The control and probe beams of light are considered to have Orbital Angular Momenta (OAM) and act on the three-level atoms in the Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) configuration. The theory is based on the explicit analysis of the quantum dynamics of cold atoms coupled with two laser beams. Using the adiabatic approximation, we obtain an effective equation of motion for the atoms driven to the dark state. The equation contains a vector potential type interaction as well as an effective trapping potential. The effective magnetic field is shown to be oriented along the propagation direction of the control and probe beams containing OAM. Its spatial profile can be controlled by choosing proper laser beams. We demonstrate how to generate a constant effective magnetic field, as well as a field exhibiting a radial distance dependence. The resulting effective magnetic field can be concentrated within a region where the effective trapping potential holds the atoms. The estimated magnetic length can be considerably smaller than the size of the atomic cloud.

id: cond-mat/0412123
title: Sample dependence of the Casimir force
authors: V. B. Svetovoy
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412123
abstract: Difference between bulk material and deposited film is shown to have an appreciable influence on the Casimir force. Analysis of the optical data on gold films unambiguously demonstrates the sample dependence: the dielectric functions of the films deposited in different conditions are different on the level that cannot be ignored in high precision prediction of the force. It is argued that the precise values of the Drude parameters are crucial for accurate evaluation of the force. The dielectric function of perfect single crystalline gold is discussed. It is used to establish the upper limit on the absolute value of the force. It is demonstrated that the force between films is smaller than that between bulk samples mainly due to the presence of voids and electron scattering on the grain boundaries in the films. The minimal reduction of the force is estimated as 2% for the smallest separations investigated in the most precise experiments. The other sample effects can reduce the force further but the correction is expected to be smaller than 1%.

id: cond-mat/0412125
title: Atomic Squeezing under Collective Emission
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Latex file, 21 page, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 053828-11
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412125
abstract: Atomic squeezing is studied for the case of large systems of radiating atoms, when collective effects are well developed. All temporal stages are analyzed, starting with the quantum stage of spontaneous emission, passing through the coherent stage of superradiant emission, and going to the relaxation stage ending with stationary solutions. A method of governing the temporal behaviour of the squeezing factor is suggested. The influence of a squeezed effective vacuum on the characteristics of collective emission is also investigated.

id: cond-mat/0412127
title: Continuous unitary transformations and finite-size scaling exponents in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 224420 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412127
abstract: We analyze the finite-size scaling exponents in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model by means of the Holstein-Primakoff representation of the spin operators and the continuous unitary transformations method. This combination allows us to compute analytically leading corrections to the ground state energy, the gap, the magnetization, and the two-spin correlation functions. We also present numerical calculations for large system size which confirm the validity of this approach. Finally, we use these results to discuss the entanglement properties of the ground state focusing on the (rescaled) concurrence that we compute in the thermodynamical limit.

id: cond-mat/0412157
title: Analytical probabilistic approach to the ground state of lattice quantum systems: exact results in terms of a cumulant expansion
authors: Massimo Ostilli, Carlo Presilla
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0504:P04007,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412157
abstract: We present a large deviation analysis of a recently proposed probabilistic approach to the study of the ground-state properties of lattice quantum systems. The ground-state energy, as well as the correlation functions in the ground state, are exactly determined as a series expansion in the cumulants of the multiplicities of the potential and hopping energies assumed by the system during its long-time evolution. Once these cumulants are known, even at a finite order, our approach provides the ground state analytically as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters. A scenario of possible applications of this analyticity property is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0412225
title: Three-body problem for ultracold atoms in quasi-one-dimensional traps
authors: C. Mora, R. Egger, A.O. Gogolin
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in PRA, appendix on the derivation of an integral formula for the Hurvitz zeta function
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052705 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412225
abstract: We study the three-body problem for both fermionic and bosonic cold atom gases in a parabolic transverse trap of lengthscale $a_\perp$. For this quasi-one-dimensional (1D) problem, there is a two-body bound state (dimer) for any sign of the 3D scattering length $a$, and a confinement-induced scattering resonance. The fermionic three-body problem is universal and characterized by two atom-dimer scattering lengths, $a_{ad}$ and $b_{ad}$. In the tightly bound `dimer limit', $a_\perp/a\to\infty$, we find $b_{ad}=0$, and $a_{ad}$ is linked to the 3D atom-dimer scattering length. In the weakly bound `BCS limit', $a_\perp/a\to-\infty$, a connection to the Bethe Ansatz is established, which allows for exact results. The full crossover is obtained numerically. The bosonic three-body problem, however, is non-universal: $a_{ad}$ and $b_{ad}$ depend both on $a_\perp/a$ and on a parameter $R^*$ related to the sharpness of the resonance. Scattering solutions are qualitatively similar to fermionic ones. We predict the existence of a single confinement-induced three-body bound state (trimer) for bosons.

id: cond-mat/0412229
title: Entanglement distillation by adiabatic passage in coupled quantum dots
authors: Jaroslav Fabian, Ulrich Hohenester
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 201304(R) (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412229
abstract: Adiabatic passage of two correlated electrons in three coupled quantum dots is shown to provide a robust and controlled way of distilling, transporting and detecting spin entanglement, as well as of measuring the rate of spin disentanglement. Employing tunable interdot coupling the scheme creates, from an unentangled two-electron state, a superposition of spatially separated singlet and triplet states. A single measurement of a dot population (charge) collapses the wave function to either of these states, realizing entanglement to charge conversion. The scheme is robust, with the efficiency close to 100%, for a large range of realistic spectral parameters.

id: cond-mat/0412270
title: Continuous measurement of a microwave-driven solid state qubit
authors: S. D. Barrett, T. M. Stace
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 6 eps files. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412270
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a continuously observed, damped, microwave driven solid state charge qubit. The qubit consists of a single electron in a double well potential, coupled to an oscillating electric field, and which is continuously observed by a nearby point contact electrometer. The microwave field induces transitions between the qubit eigenstates, which have a profound effect on the detector output current. We show that useful information about the qubit dynamics, such as dephasing and relaxation rates, and the Rabi frequency, can be extracted from the DC detector conductance and the detector output noise power spectrum. We also demonstrate that these phenomena can be used for single shot electron \emph{spin} readout, for spin based quantum information processing.

id: cond-mat/0412309
title: Electronic Properties of Topological Materials: Optical Excitations in Moebius Conjugated Polymers
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, to be published in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., Vol. 74 No. 2 (February, 2005), Letter section
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., Vol.74 No.2, p.523-526 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412309
abstract: Electronic structures and optical excitations in Moebius conjugated polymers are studied theoretically. Periodic and Moebius boundary conditions are applied to the tight binding model of poly(para-phenylene), taking exciton effects into account. We discuss that oligomers with a few structural units are more effective than polymers for observations of effects of discrete wave numbers that are shifted by the change in boundary condition. Next, calculations of optical absorption spectra are reported. Certain components of optical absorption for an electric field perpendicular to the polymer axis mix with absorption spectra for an electric field parallel to the polymer axis. Therefore, the polarization dependences of an electric field of light enable us to detect whether conjugated polymers have the Moebius boundary.

id: cond-mat/0412340
title: Charge qubits in semiconductor quantum computer architectures: Tunnel coupling and decoherence
authors: Xuedong Hu, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 235332 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412340
abstract: We consider charge qubits based on shallow donor electron states in silicon and coupled quantum dots in GaAs. Specifically, we study the feasibility of P$_2^+$ charge qubits in Si, focusing on single qubit properties in terms of tunnel coupling between the two phosphorus donors and qubit decoherence caused by electron-phonon interaction. By taking into consideration the multi-valley structure of the Si conduction band, we show that inter-valley quantum interference has important consequences for single-qubit operations of P$_2^+$ charge qubits. In particular, the valley interference leads to a tunnel-coupling strength distribution centered around zero. On the other hand, we find that the Si bandstructure does not dramatically affect the electron-phonon coupling and consequently, qubit coherence. We also critically compare charge qubit properties for Si:P$_2^+$ and GaAs double quantum dot quantum computer architectures.

id: cond-mat/0412343
title: Topologically-Protected Qubits from a Possible Non-Abelian Fractional Quantum Hall State
authors: Sankar Das Sarma, Michael Freedman, Chetan Nayak
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 166802 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412343
abstract: The Pfaffian state is an attractive candidate for the observed quantized Hall plateau at Landau level filling fraction $\nu=5/2$. This is particularly intriguing because this state has unusual topological properties, including quasiparticle excitations with non-Abelian braiding statistics. In order to determine the nature of the $\nu=5/2$ state, one must measure the quasiparticle braiding statistics. Here, we propose an experiment which can simultaneously determine the braiding statistics of quasiparticle excitations and, if they prove to be non-Abelian, produce a topologically-protected qubit on which a logical NOT operation is performed by quasiparticle braiding. Using the measured excitation gap at $\nu=5/2$, we estimate the error rate to be $10^{-30}$ or lower.

id: cond-mat/0412392
title: Dynamics of a two-level system strongly coupled to a high-frequency quantum oscillator
authors: E. K. Irish, J. Gea-Banacloche, I. Martin, K. C. Schwab
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures; revised abstract; some text revisions; added two figures and combined others; added references. Submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 195410 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412392
abstract: Recent experiments on quantum behavior in microfabricated solid-state systems suggest tantalizing connections to quantum optics. Several of these experiments address the prototypical problem of cavity quantum electrodynamics: a two-level system coupled to a quantum harmonic oscillator. Such devices may allow the exploration of parameter regimes outside the near-resonance and weak-coupling assumptions of the ubiquitous rotating-wave approximation (RWA), necessitating other theoretical approaches. One such approach is an adiabatic approximation in the limit that the oscillator frequency is much larger than the characteristic frequency of the two-level system. A derivation of the approximation is presented and the time evolution of the two-level-system occupation probability is calculated using both thermal- and coherent-state initial conditions for the oscillator. Closed-form evaluation of the time evolution in the weak-coupling limit provides insight into the differences between the thermal- and coherent-state models. Finally, potential experimental observations in solid-state systems, particularly the Cooper-pair box--nanomechanical resonator system, are discussed and found to be promising.

id: cond-mat/0412444
title: Electric capacitance as nanocondensers in zigzag nanographite ribbons
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 11 pages; 7 figures; accepted for publication in Japanese Journal of Applied Physics
journal: Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 44, No. 7A, 2005, pp. 5068-5072
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412444
abstract: Electronic states in nanographite ribbons with zigzag edges are studied using the extended Hubbard model with nearest neighbor Coulomb interactions. The nearest Coulomb interactions stabilize electronic states with the opposite electric charges separated and localized along both edges. Such states are analogous as nanocondensers. Therefore, electric capacitance, defined using a relation of polarizability, is calculated to examine nano functionalities. We find that the behavior of the capacitance is widely different depending on whether the system is in the magnetic or charge polarized phases. In the magnetic phase, the capacitance is dominated by the presence of the edge states while the ribbon width is small. As the ribbon becomes wider, the capacitance remains with large magnitudes as the system develops into metallic zigzag nanotubes. It is proportional to the inverse of the width, when the system corresponds to the semiconducting nanotubes and the system is in the charge polarized phase also. The latter behavior could be understood by the presence of an energy gap for charge excitations.

id: cond-mat/0412460
title: Exact Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac Statistics
authors: Robert K. Niven
comments: 18 pages; 6 figures; accepted for publication by Physics Letters A, 13/5/05
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412460
abstract: The exact Maxwell-Boltzmann (MB), Bose-Einstein (BE) and Fermi-Dirac (FD) entropies and probabilistic distributions are derived by the combinatorial method of Boltzmann, without Stirling's approximation. The new entropy measures are explicit functions of the probability and degeneracy of each state, and the total number of entities, N. By analysis of the cost of a "binary decision", exact BE and FD statistics are shown to have profound consequences for the behaviour of quantum mechanical systems.

id: cond-mat/0412587
title: Spin dependent transport of ``nonmagnetic metal/zigzag nanotube encapsulating magnetic atoms/nonmagnetic metal'' junctions
authors: Satoshi Kokado, Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Synth. Metals
journal: Synthetic Metals, Volume 152, Issues 1-3, 20 September 2005, Pages 465-468
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412587
abstract: Towards a novel magnetoresistance (MR) device with a carbon nanotube, we propose ``nonmagnetic metal/zigzag nanotube encapsulating magnetic atoms/nonmagnetic metal'' junctions. We theoretically investigate how spin-polarized edges of the nanotube and the encapsulated magnetic atoms influence on transport. When the on-site Coulomb energy divided by the magnitude of transfer integral, $U/|t|$, is larger than 0.8, large MR effect due to the direction of spins of magnetic atoms, which has the magnitude of the MR ratio of about 100%, appears reflecting such spin-polarized edges.

id: cond-mat/0412604
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling in a d-wave high-Tc superconductor
authors: K. Inomata, S. Sato, K. Nakajima, A. Tanaka, Y. Takano, H. B. Wang, M. Nagao, S. Kawabata, T. Hatano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Ver. 2, Added reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 (2005) 107005
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0412604
abstract: There is a wide recognition that Josephson-junction-like structures intrinsic to the layered cuprate high temperature superconductors offer an attractive stage for exploiting possible applications to new quantum technologies. On the other hand the low energy quasiparticle excitations characteristically present in these d-wave superconductors may easily destruct the coherence required. Here we demonstrate for the first time the feasibility of macroscopic quantum tunneling in the intrinsic Josephson junctions of a high temperature superconductor, and find it to be characterized by a high classic-to-quantum crossover temperature and a relatively weak quasiparticle dissipation.

id: cs/0412061
title: Free quasi-symmetric functions, product actions and quantum field theory of partitions
authors: Gerard Henry Edmond Duchamp, Jean-Gabriel Luque, Karol A. Penson, Christophe Tollu
comments: Submitted 28.11.04
journal: 
subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0412061
abstract: We examine two associative products over the ring of symmetric functions related to the intransitive and Cartesian products of permutation groups. As an application, we give an enumeration of some Feynman type diagrams arising in Bender's QFT of partitions. We end by exploring possibilities to construct noncommutative analogues.

id: cs/0412102
title: Quantum Interactive Proofs with Competing Provers
authors: Gus Gutoski, John Watrous
comments: 13 pages, to appear in STACS 2005
journal: Proceedings of STACS 2005, LNCS vol. 3404, pages 605-616
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0412102
abstract: This paper studies quantum refereed games, which are quantum interactive proof systems with two competing provers: one that tries to convince the verifier to accept and the other that tries to convince the verifier to reject. We prove that every language having an ordinary quantum interactive proof system also has a quantum refereed game in which the verifier exchanges just one round of messages with each prover. A key part of our proof is the fact that there exists a single quantum measurement that reliably distinguishes between mixed states chosen arbitrarily from disjoint convex sets having large minimal trace distance from one another. We also show how to reduce the probability of error for some classes of quantum refereed games.

id: gr-qc/0412076
title: Computability at the Planck scale
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 9 pages, misprints corrected, LaTeX version, accepted as contributed paper at CiE 2005
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0412076
abstract: We consider the issue of computability at the most fundamental level of physical reality: the Planck scale. To this aim, we consider the theoretical model of a quantum computer on a non commutative space background, which is a computational model for quantum gravity. In this domain, all computable functions are the laws of physics in their most primordial form, and non computable mathematics finds no room in the physical world. Moreover, we show that a theorem that classically was considered true but non computable, at the Planck scale becomes computable but non decidable. This fact is due to the change of logic for observers in a quantum-computing universe: from standard quantum logic and classical logic, to paraconsistent logic.

id: hep-ph/0412311
title: Dissipative neutrino oscillations in randomly fluctuating matter
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 14 pages, plain-TeX
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 013003
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0412311
abstract: The generalized dynamics describing the propagation of neutrinos in randomly fluctuating media is analyzed: it takes into account matter-induced, decoherence phenomena that go beyond the standard MSW effect. A widely adopted density fluctuation pattern is found to be physically untenable: a more general model needs to be instead considered, leading to flavor changing effective neutrino-matter interactions. They induce new, dissipative effects that modify the neutrino oscillation pattern in a way amenable to a direct experimental analysis.

id: hep-ph/0412374
title: Berry Phase in Neutrino Oscillations
authors: Xiao-Gang He, Xue-Qian Li, Bruce H. J. McKellar, Yue Zhang
comments: RevTex 16 pages, no figures, new discussions about sterile neutrino added,typos corrected and errors in references corrected
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 053012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0412374
abstract: We study the Berry phase in neutrino oscillations for both Dirac and Majorana neutrinos. In order to have a Berry phase, the neutrino oscillations must occur in a varying medium, the neutrino-background interactions must depend on at least two independent densities, and also there must be CP violation if the neutrino interactions with matter are mediated only by the standard model W and Z boson exchanges which implies that there must be at least three generations of neutrinos. The CP violating Majorana phases do not play a role in generating a Berry phase. We show that a natural way to satisfy the conditions for the generation of a Berry phase is to have sterile neutrinos with active-sterile neutrino mixing, in which case at least two active and one sterile neutrinos are required. If there are additional new CP violating flavor changing interactions, it is also possible to have a non-zero Berry phase with just two generations.

id: hep-th/0412019
title: New variational perturbation theory based on $q-$deformed oscillator
authors: Hyeong-Chan Kim, Jae Hyung Yee, Sang Pyo Kim
comments: 6pages, no figures, minor corrections
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 984-993
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412019
abstract: A new variational perturbation theory is developed based on the $q-$deformed oscillator. It is shown that the new variational perturbation method provides 200 or 10 times better accuracy for the ground state energy of anharmonic oscillator than the Gaussian and the improved Gaussian approximation, respectively.

id: hep-th/0412065
title: Spinning particle, rotating black hole and twistor-string
authors: A. Burinskii
comments: 5 p. Talk at the SPIN 2004 Symposium (ICTP Trieste, October 2004)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412065
abstract: Structure of spinning particle based on the rotating black hole solution is considered. It has gyromagnetic ratio $g=2$ and a nontrivial twistorial and stringy systems. The mass and spin appear from excitations of the Kerr circular string, while the Dirac equation describes excitations of an {\it axial} stringy system which is responsible for scattering. Complex Kerr geometry contains an open twistor-string, target space of which is equivalent to the Witten's `diagonal' of the $ CP^3\times CP^{*3}$.

id: hep-th/0412135
title: Casimir Energy for a Dielectric Cylinder
authors: Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 31 pages, no figures, uses elsart.cls Revised version includes detailed discussion of divergent terms, and new derivation of result. New references added
journal: Annals Phys. 320 (2005) 108-134
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412135
abstract: In this paper we calculate the Casimir energy for a dielectric-diamagnetic cylinder with the speed of light differing on the inside and outside. Although the result is in general divergent, special cases are meaningful. The well-known results for a uniform speed of light are reproduced. The self-stress on a purely dielectric cylinder is shown to vanish through second order in the deviation of the permittivity from its vacuum value, in agreement with the result calculated from the sum of van der Waals forces.These results are unambiguously separated from divergent terms.

id: hep-th/0412160
title: Pseudo-hermitian interaction between an oscillator and a spin half particle in the external magnetic field
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Latex, no figs, 8 pages. (To appear in Mod. Phys. Lett. A)
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 655-662
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412160
abstract: We consider a spin half particle in the external magnetic field which couples to a harmonic oscillator through some pseudo-hermitian interaction. We find that the energy eigenvalues for this system are real even though the interaction is not PT invariant.

id: hep-th/0412192
title: Finite size effects in quantum field theories with boundary from scattering data
authors: Z. Bajnok, L. Palla, G. Takacs
comments: 24 pages, 1 eps figure. Clarifying comments and a reference added
journal: Nucl.Phys. B716 (2005) 519-542
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412192
abstract: We derive a relation between leading finite size corrections for a 1+1 dimensional quantum field theory on a strip and scattering data, which is very similar in spirit to the approach pioneered by Luscher for periodic boundary conditions. The consistency of the results is tested both analytically and numerically using thermodynamic Bethe Ansatz, Destri-de Vega nonlinear integral equation and classical field theory techniques. We present strong evidence that the relation between the boundary state and the reflection factor one-particle couplings, noticed earlier by Dorey et al. in the case of the Lee-Yang model extends to any boundary quantum field theory in 1+1 dimensions.

id: hep-th/0412195
title: Rotating Black Hole, Twistor-String and Spinning Particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 19 p. 4 figures, extended version of hep-th/0412065, based on the talk given at the Conference `Symmetries and Spin'(SPIN-Praha-2004) July 2004
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 55 (2005) A261
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412195
abstract: We discuss basic features of the model of spinning particle based on the Kerr solution. It contains a very nontrivial {\it real} stringy structure consisting of the Kerr circular string and an axial stringy system. We consider also the complex and twistorial structures of the Kerr geometry and show that there is a {\it complex} twistor-string built of the complex N=2 chiral string with a twistorial $(x,\theta)$ structure. By imbedding into the real Minkowski $\bf M^4$, the N=2 supersymmetry is partially broken and string acquires the open ends. Orientifolding this string, we identify the chiral and antichiral structures. Target space of this string is equivalent to the Witten's `diagonal' of the $\bf CP^3\times CP^{*3}.$

id: hep-th/0412213
title: Relativistic wave equations for interacting massive particles with arbitrary half-intreger spins
authors: J. Niederle, A. G. Nikitin
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D64:125013,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412213
abstract: New formulation of relativistic wave equations (RWE) for massive particles with arbitrary half-integer spins s interacting with external electromagnetic fields are proposed. They are based on wave functions which are irreducible tensors of rank $n ($n=s-\frac12$) antisymmetric w.r.t. n pairs of indices, whose components are bispinors. The form of RWE is straightforward and free of inconsistencies associated with the other approaches to equations describing interacting higher spin particles.

id: hep-th/0412214
title: Relativistic Coulomb problem for particles with arbitrary half-integer spin
authors: J. Niederle, A. G. Nikitin
comments: Misprints are corrected
journal: J.Phys.A39:10931-10944,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412214
abstract: Using relativistic tensor-bispinorial equations proposed in hep-th/0412213 we solve the Kepler problem for a charged particle with arbitrary half-integer spin interacting with the Coulomb potential.

id: hep-th/0412253
title: Real-Time Instantons and Suppression of Collision-Induced Tunneling
authors: D. Levkov, S. Sibiryakov
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, JETP Letters style
journal: JETP Lett. 81 (2005) 53-57; Pisma Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz. 81 (2005) 60-64
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412253
abstract: We consider tunneling processes in QFT induced by collisions of elementary particles. We propose a semiclassical method for estimating the probability of these processes in the limit of very high collision energy. As an illustration, we evaluate the maximum probability of induced tunneling between different vacua in a (1+1)-dimensional scalar model with boundary interaction.

id: hep-th/0412263
title: The Casimir Energy for a Hyperboloid Facing a Plate in the Optical Approximation
authors: O. Schroeder, A. Scardicchio, R. L. Jaffe
comments: v2: 14 pages, 11 eps figures; typo in eq. (21) removed, clarification added, fig. 10 improved; version published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 012105
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412263
abstract: We study the Casimir energy of a massless scalar field that obeys Dirichlet boundary conditions on a hyperboloid facing a plate. We use the optical approximation including the first six reflections and compare the results with the predictions of the proximity force approximation and the semi-classical method. We also consider finite size effects by contrasting the infinite with a finite plate. We find sizable and qualitative differences between the new optical method and the more traditional approaches.

id: hep-th/0412309
title: Semiclassical Methods in Curved Spacetime and Black Hole Thermodynamics
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 18 pages. Sections 1 through 4 were reduced by eliminating inessential equations and paragraphs; additional comments were added in Section 5. A few typos were corrected. The central equations and concepts remain unchanged
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 124040
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0412309
abstract: Improved semiclassical techniques are developed and applied to a treatment of a real scalar field in a $D$-dimensional gravitational background. This analysis, leading to a derivation of the thermodynamics of black holes, is based on the simultaneous use of: (i) a near-horizon description of the scalar field in terms of conformal quantum mechanics; (ii) a novel generalized WKB framework; and (iii) curved-spacetime phase-space methods. In addition, this improved semiclassical approach is shown to be asymptotically exact in the presence of hierarchical expansions of a near-horizon type. Most importantly, this analysis further supports the claim that the thermodynamics of black holes is induced by their near-horizon conformal invariance.

id: math-ph/0412009
title: A Stronger Subadditivity of Entropy
authors: Elliott H. Lieb, Robert Seiringer
comments: LaTeX2e, 24 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062329 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0412009
abstract: The strong subadditivity of entropy plays a key role in several areas of physics and mathematics. It states that the entropy S[\rho]= - Tr (\rho \ln \rho) of a density matrix \rho_{123} on the product of three Hilbert spaces satisfies S[\rho_{123}] - S[\rho_{23}] \leq S[\rho_{12}]- S[\rho_2]. We strengthen this to S[\rho_{123}] - S[\rho_{12}] \leq \sum_\alpha n^\alpha (S[\rho_{23}^\alpha ] - S[\rho_2^\alpha ]), where the n^\alpha are weights and the \rho_{23}^\alpha are partitions of \rho_{23}. Correspondingly, there is a strengthening of the theorem that the map A -> Tr \exp[L + \ln A] is concave. As applications we prove some monotonicity and convexity properties of the Wehrl entropy and entropy inequalities for quantum gases.

id: math-ph/0412042
title: Upper limit on the critical strength of central potentials in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Fabian Brau
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 032305 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0412042
abstract: In the context of relativistic quantum mechanics, where the Schr\"odinger equation is replaced by the spinless Salpeter equation, we show how to construct a large class of upper limits on the critical value, $g_{\rm{c}}^{(\ell)}$, of the coupling constant, $g$, of the central potential, $V(r)=-g v(r)$. This critical value is the value of $g$ for which a first $\ell$-wave bound state appears.

id: math-ph/0412052
title: Dirac oscillator with nonzero minimal uncertainty in position
authors: C. Quesne, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 28 pages, no figure, submitted to JPA
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 1747-1766
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0412052
abstract: In the context of some deformed canonical commutation relations leading to isotropic nonzero minimal uncertainties in the position coordinates, a Dirac equation is exactly solved for the first time, namely that corresponding to the Dirac oscillator. Supersymmetric quantum mechanical and shape-invariance methods are used to derive both the energy spectrum and wavefunctions in the momentum representation. As for the conventional Dirac oscillator, there are neither negative-energy states for $E=-1$, nor symmetry between the $l = j - {1/2}$ and $l = j + {1/2}$ cases, both features being connected with supersymmetry or, equivalently, the $\omega \to - \omega$ transformation. In contrast with the conventional case, however, the energy spectrum does not present any degeneracy pattern apart from that associated with the rotational symmetry. More unexpectedly, deformation leads to a difference in behaviour between the $l = j - {1/2}$ states corresponding to small, intermediate and very large $j$ values in the sense that only for the first ones supersymmetry remains unbroken, while for the second ones no bound state does exist.

id: math-ph/0412093
title: Sufficiency in quantum statistical inference
authors: Anna Jencova, Denes Petz
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 263(2006), 259-276.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0412093
abstract: This paper attempts to develop a theory of sufficiency in the setting of non-commutative algebras parallel to the ideas in classical mathematical statistics. Sufficiency of a coarse-graining means that all information is extracted about the mutual relation of a given family of states. In the paper sufficient coarse-grainings are characterized in several equivalent ways and the non-commutative analogue of the factorization theorem is obtained. Among the applications the equality case for the strong subadditivity of the von Neumann entropy, the Imoto-Koashi theorem and exponential families are treated. The setting of the paper allows the underlying Hilbert space to be infinite dimensional.

id: math-ph/0412095
title: Inequivalent quantizations of the three-particle Calogero model constructed by separation of variables
authors: L. Feher, I. Tsutsui, T. Fulop
comments: 45 pages, 6 figures, LaTeX, v2: a reference and a note added, v3: merely a constant is corrected
journal: Nucl.Phys. B715 (2005) 713-757
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0412095
abstract: We quantize the 1-dimensional 3-body problem with harmonic and inverse square pair potential by separating the Schr\"odinger equation following the classic work of Calogero, but allowing all possible self-adjoint boundary conditions for the angular and radial Hamiltonians. The inverse square coupling constant is taken to be $g=2\nu (\nu-1)$ with ${1/2} <\nu< {3/2}$ and then the angular Hamiltonian is shown to admit a 2-parameter family of inequivalent quantizations compatible with the dihedral $D_6$ symmetry of its potential term $9 \nu (\nu -1)/\sin^2 3\phi$. These are parametrized by a matrix $U\in U(2)$ satisfying $\sigma_1 U \sigma_1 = U$, and in all cases we describe the qualitative features of the angular eigenvalues and classify the eigenstates under the $D_6$ symmetry and its $S_3$ subgroup generated by the particle exchanges. The angular eigenvalue $\lambda$ enters the radial Hamiltonian through the potential $(\lambda -{1/4})/r^2$ allowing a 1-parameter family of self-adjoint boundary conditions at $r=0$ if $\lambda <1$. For $0<\lambda<1$ our analysis of the radial Schr\"odinger equation is consistent with previous results on the possible energy spectra, while for $\lambda <0$ it shows that the energy is not bounded from below rejecting those $U$'s admitting such eigenvalues as physically impermissible. The permissible self-adjoint angular Hamiltonians include, for example, the cases $U=\pm {\bf 1}_2, \pm \sigma_1$, which are explicitly solvable and are presented in detail. The choice $U=-{\bf 1}_2$ reproduces Calogero's quantization, while for the choice $U=\sigma_1$ the system is smoothly connected to the harmonic oscillator in the limit $\nu \to 1$.

id: nlin/0412042
title: Multifractal eigenstates of quantum chaos and the Thue-Morse sequence
authors: N. Meenakshisundaram, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Substantially modified from the original, worth a second download. To appear in Phys. Rev. E as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. E. 71, 065303(R) (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0412042
abstract: We analyze certain eigenstates of the quantum baker's map and demonstrate, using the Walsh-Hadamard transform, the emergence of the ubiquitous Thue-Morse sequence, a simple sequence that is at the border between quasi-periodicity and chaos, and hence is a good paradigm for quantum chaotic states. We show a family of states that are also simply related to Thue-Morse sequence, and are strongly scarred by short periodic orbits and their homoclinic excursions. We give approximate expressions for these states and provide evidence that these and other generic states are multifractal.

id: nucl-th/0412012
title: Quantum tunneling of a complex systems: effects of finite size and intrinsic structure
authors: V.V. Flambaum, V.G. Zelevinsky
comments: 9 pages
journal: J.Phys.G31:355-360,2005
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0412012
abstract: A simple model is considered to study the effects of finite size and internal structure in the tunneling of bound two-body systems through a potential barrier. It is demonstrated that these effects are able to increase the tunneling probability. Applications may include nuclear fusion,hydrogen atom and Cooper pair tunneling.

id: physics/0412048
title: Zero-Temperature Theory of Collisionless Rapid Adiabatic Passage from a Fermi Degenerate Gas of Atoms to a Bose-Einstein Condensate of Molecules
authors: Matt Mackie, Olavi Dannenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 19+ references; submitted to PRA RC. v2: added discussion (for the better), 20+ refs.; re-submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0412048
abstract: We theoretically examine a zero-temperature system of Fermi degenerate atoms coupled to bosonic molecules via collisionless rapid adiabatic passage across a Feshbach resonance, focusing on saturation of the molecular conversion efficiency at the slowest magnetic-field sweep rates. Borrowing a novel MANY-FERMION Fock-state theory, we find that a proper model of the magnetic-field sweep can systematically remove saturation. We also debunk the common misconception that many-body effects are responsible for molecules existing above the two-body threshold.

id: physics/0412084
title: Spin-orbit interaction of photons and fine splitting of levels in ring dielectric resonator
authors: K.Yu. Bliokh, D.Yu. Frolov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, final version with jornal misprints corrected
journal: Optics Communications 250, 321-327 (2005)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0412084
abstract: We consider eigenmodes of a ring resonator made of a circular dielectric waveguide. Taking into account the polarization corrections, which are responsible for the interaction of polarization and orbital properties of electromagnetic waves (spin-orbit interaction of photons), results in fine splitting of the levels of scalar approximation. The basic features of this fine structure of the levels are similar to that of electron levels in an atom. Namely: 1) sublevels of the fine structure are defined by an additional quantum number: product of helicity of the wave and its orbital moment; 2) for a waveguide with a parabolic profile of the refractive index each level of the scalar approximation splits into N sublevels (N is the principal quantum number), while for any other profile it splits into 2 sublevels; 3) each level of the fine structure remains twice degenerated due to local axial symmetry of the waveguide. Numerical estimations show that the described fine splitting of levels may be observed in optic-fiber ring resonators.

