id: quant-ph/0501001
title: Manipulative resonant nonlinear optics: nonlinear interference effects and quantum control of nonlinearity, dispersion, transparency and inversionless amplification in an extended strongly-absorbing inhomogeneously-broadened medium
authors: A. K. Popov, S. A. Myslivets, Thomas F. George
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures, 46 references
journal: Physical Review A 71, 043811(13 pages) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501001
abstract: Specific features of nonlinear interference processes at quantum transitions in near- and fully-resonant optically-dense Doppler-broadened medium are studied. The feasibility of overcoming of the fundamental limitation on a velocity-interval of resonantly coupled molecules imposed by the Doppler effect is shown based on quantum coherence. This increases the efficiency of nonlinear-optical processes in atomic and molecular gases that possess the most narrow and strongest resonances. The possibility of all-optical switching of the medium to opaque or, alternatively, to absolutely transparent, or even to strongly-amplifying states is explored, which is controlled by a small variation of two driving radiations. The required intensities of the control fields are shown to be typical for cw lasers. These effects are associated with four-wave mixing accompanied by Stokes gain and by their interference in fully- and near-resonant optically-dense far-from-degenerate double-Lambda medium. Optimum conditions for inversionless amplification of short-wavelength radiation above the oscillation threshold at the expense of the longer-wavelength control fields, as well as for Raman gain of the generated idle infrared radiation, are investigated. The outcomes are illustrated with numerical simulations applied to sodium dimer vapor. Similar schemes can be realized in doped solids and in fiber optics.

id: quant-ph/0501002
title: Tunable Whispering Gallery Mode Resonators for Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Y. Louyer, D. Meschede, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 031801(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501002
abstract: We theoretically study the properties of highly prolate shaped dielectric microresonators. Such resonators sustain whispering gallery modes that exhibit two spatially well separated regions with enhanced field strength. The field per photon on the resonator surface is significantly higher than e.g. for equatorial whispering gallery modes in microsphere resonators with a comparable mode volume. At the same time, the frequency spacing of these modes is much more favorable, so that a tuning range of several free spectral ranges should be attainable. We discuss the possible application of such resonators for cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments with neutral atoms and reveal distinct advantages with respect to existing concepts.

id: quant-ph/0501003
title: Entangled-state cryptographic protocol that remains secure even if nonlocal hidden variables exist and can be measured with arbitrary precision
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Marcin Pawlowski
comments: Shortened version, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 034303 (2006); Erratum: Phys. Rev. A 73, 059901(E) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501003
abstract: Standard quantum cryptographic protocols are not secure if one assumes that nonlocal hidden variables exist and can be measured with arbitrary precision. The security can be restored if one of the communicating parties randomly switches between two standard protocols.

id: quant-ph/0501004
title: Non-Bilocal Measurement via Entangled State
authors: E. Shmaya
comments: 6 pages. minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501004
abstract: Two observers, who share a pair of particles in an entangled mixed state, can use it to perform some non-bilocal measurement over another bipartite system. In particular, one can construct a specific game played by the observers against a coordinator, in which they can score better than a pair of observers who only share a classical communication channel.

id: quant-ph/0501005
title: Unconditional quantum cloning of coherent states with linear optics
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Vincent Josse, Gerd Leuchs
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. Volume 94, Number 24, p. 240503
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501005
abstract: A scheme for optimal Gaussian cloning of optical coherent states is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. Its optical realization is based entirely on simple linear optical elements and homodyne detection. The optimality of the presented scheme is only limited by detection inefficiencies. Experimentally we achieved a cloning fidelity of about 65%, which almost touches the optimal value of 2/3.

id: quant-ph/0501006
title: General Description of Mixed State Geometric Phase
authors: Mingjun Shi, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501006
abstract: We consider arbitrary mixed state in unitary evolution and provide a comprehensive description of corresponding geometric phase in which two different points of view prevailing currently can be unified. Introducing an ancillary system and considering the purification of given mixed state, we find that different results of mixed state geometric phase correspond to different choice of the representation of Hilbert space of the ancilla. Moreover we demonstrate that in order to obtain Uhlmann's geometric phase it is not necessary to resort to the unitary evolution of ancilla.

id: quant-ph/0501007
title: Spin Chains as Perfect Quantum State Mirrors
authors: Peter Karbach, Joachim Stolze
comments: Abstract extended, introduction shortened, some clarifications in the text, one new reference. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communications)
journal: Physical Review A 72, 030301 (R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501007
abstract: Quantum information transfer is an important part of quantum information processing. Several proposals for quantum information transfer along linear arrays of nearest-neighbor coupled qubits or spins were made recently. Perfect transfer was shown to exist in two models with specifically designed strongly inhomogeneous couplings. We show that perfect transfer occurs in an entire class of chains, including systems whose nearest-neighbor couplings vary only weakly along the chain. The key to these observations is the Jordan-Wigner mapping of spins to noninteracting lattice fermions which display perfectly periodic dynamics if the single-particle energy spectrum is appropriate. After a half-period of that dynamics any state is transformed into its mirror image with respect to the center of the chain. The absence of fermion interactions preserves these features at arbitrary temperature and allows for the transfer of nontrivially entangled states of several spins or qubits.

id: quant-ph/0501008
title: Distributing entanglement and single photons through an intra-city, free-space quantum channel
authors: K. J. Resch, M. Lindenthal, B. Blauensteiner, H. R. Boehm, A. Fedrizzi, C. Kurtsiefer, A. Poppe, T. Schmitt-Manderbach, M. Taraba, R. Ursin, P. Walther, H. Weier, H. Weinfurter, A. Zeilinger
comments: 8 pages including 1 figure and 2 tables. The first two authors contributed equally to this work
journal: Opt. Express 13, 202-209 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501008
abstract: We have distributed entangled photons directly through the atmosphere to a receiver station 7.8 km away over the city of Vienna, Austria at night. Detection of one photon from our entangled pairs constitutes a triggered single photon source from the sender. With no direct time-stable connection, the two stations found coincidence counts in the detection events by calculating the cross-correlation of locally-recorded time stamps shared over a public internet channel. For this experiment, our quantum channel was maintained for a total of 40 minutes during which time a coincidence lock found approximately 60000 coincident detection events. The polarization correlations in those events yielded a Bell parameter, S=2.27/pm0.019, which violates the CHSH-Bell inequality by 14 standard deviations. This result is promising for entanglement-based free-space quantum communication in high-density urban areas. It is also encouraging for optical quantum communication between ground stations and satellites since the length of our free-space link exceeds the atmospheric equivalent.

id: quant-ph/0501009
title: Subjective and Objective Probabilities in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mark Srednicki
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX; references added in version 2
journal: Phys Rev A 71, 052107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501009
abstract: We discuss how the apparently objective probabilities predicted by quantum mechanics can be treated in the framework of Bayesian probability theory, in which all probabilities are subjective. Our results are in accord with earlier work by Caves, Fuchs, and Schack, but our approach and emphasis are different. We also discuss the problem of choosing a noninformative prior for a density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0501010
title: Quantum Eraser Using A Modified Stern-Gerlach Setup
authors: Tabish Qureshi, Zini Rahman
comments: Published version
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012) 71-78
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501010
abstract: We propose a new setup to demonstrate quantum eraser, using spin-1/2 particles in a modified Stern-Gerlach setup, with a double slit. The "which-way" information can be erased simply by applying a transverse magnetic field with an additional magnet, resulting in the emergence of two complementary staggered interference patterns. Use of the classic Stern-Gerlach setup, and the unweaving of the washed out interference without any coincident counting, is what makes this proposal novel.

id: quant-ph/0501011
title: Contribution from stochastic electrodynamics to the understanding of quantum mechanics
authors: L. de la Pena, A. M. Cetto
comments: 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501011
abstract: During the last decades there has been a relatively extensive attempt to develop the theory of stochastic electrodynamics (SED) with a view to establishing it as the foundation for quantum mechanics. The theory had several important successes, but failed when applied to the study of particles subject to nonlinear forces. An analysis of the failure showed that its reasons are not to be ascribed to the principles of SED, but to the methods used to construct the theory, particularly the use of a Fokker-Planck approximation and perturbation theory. A new, non perturbative approach has been developed, called linear stochastic electrodynamics (LSED), of which a clean form is presented here. After introducing the fundamentals of SED, we discuss in detail the principles on which LSED is constructed. We pay attention to the fundamental issue of the mechanism that leads to the quantum behaviour of field and matter, and demonstrate that indeed LSED is a natural way to the quantum formalism by demanding its solutions to comply with a limited number of principles, each one with a clear physical meaning. As a further application of the principles of LSED we derive also the Planck distribution. In a final section we revisit some of the most tantalizing quandaries of quantum mechanics from the point of view offered by the present theory, and show that it offers a clear physical answer to them.

id: quant-ph/0501012
title: Quantitative measures of entanglement in pair coherent states
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Asoka Biswas
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, submitted
journal: Journal of Optics B 7, 350 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501012
abstract: The pair coherent states for a two-mode radiation field are known to belong to a family of states with non-Gaussian wave function. The nature of quantum entanglement between the two modes and some features of non-classicality are studied for such states. The existing criteria for inseparability are examined in the context of pair coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0501013
title: Manipulation of the Spontaneous Emission Dynamics of Quantum Dots in 2D Photonic Crystals
authors: A. Kress, F. Hofbauer, N. Reinelt, H. J. Krenner, R. Meyer, G. Boehm, J. J. Finley
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 241304(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501013
abstract: We demonstrate the ability to control the spontaneous emission dynamics of self-assembled quantum dots via the local density of optical modes in 2D-photonic crystals. We show that an incomplete 2D photonic bandgap is sufficient to significantly lengthen the spontaneous emission lifetime ($>2\times$) over a wide bandwidth ($\Delta\lambda\geq40$ nm). For dots that are both \textit{spectrally} and \textit{spatially} coupled to strongly localized ($V_{mode}\sim1.5(\lambda/n)^{3}$), high $Q\sim2700$ optical modes, we have directly measured a strong Purcell enhanced shortening of the emission lifetime $\geq5.6\times$, limited only by our temporal resolution. Analysis of the spectral dependence of the recombination dynamics shows a maximum lifetime shortening of $19\pm4$. From the directly measured enhancement and suppression we show that the single mode coupling efficiency for quantum dots in such structures is at least $\beta=92%$ and is estimated to be as large as $\sim97%$.

id: quant-ph/0501014
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Blind Polarization Bases
authors: Won-Ho Kye, Chil-Min Kim, M. S. Kim, Young-Jai Park
comments: Security has been improved upon referee's comment. 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501014
abstract: We propose a new quantum key distribution scheme that uses the blind polarization basis. In our scheme the sender and the receiver share key information by exchanging qubits with arbitrary polarization angles without basis reconciliation. As only random polarizations are transmitted, our protocol is secure even when a key is embedded in a not-so-weak coherent-state pulse. We show its security against the photon number splitting attack and the impersonation attack.

id: quant-ph/0501015
title: Thermodynamical Versus Optical Complementarity
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501015
abstract: We establish correspondence between macroscopic thermodynamical quantities and complementarity in wave interference. The well known visibility and predictability in a double slit--like experiment are shown to be connected to magnetic susceptibility and magnetization of a general interacting spin chain. This gives us the ability to analyze the tradeoff between thermodynamical quantities in the same information--theoretic way that is used in analyzing the wave--particle duality. We thus obtain new physical insights into usually complicated thermodynamical models, such as viewing a phase transition simply as a change from an effective single slit diffraction to a double slit interference.

id: quant-ph/0501016
title: Illusion of quantum speed-up
authors: Antoni Wojcik, Ravindra W. Chhajlany
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501016
abstract: Quantum computers are believed to surpass the classical ones. Moreover, it is claimed that this belief reaches the level of a mathematically proven fact within the oracle model of computation. Here we impair the whole class of the so-called rigorist proofs of quantum speed-up obtained within this model.

id: quant-ph/0501017
title: Entanglement Energetics in the Ground State
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Markus Buttiker
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Conference proceeding for the Physics of Quantum Electronics; Utah, USA, January 2004
journal: J. Mod. Optics 51, 2405 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501017
abstract: We show how many-body ground state entanglement information may be extracted from sub-system energy measurements at zero temperature. A precise relation between entanglement and energy fluctuations is demonstrated in the weak coupling limit. Examples are given with the two-state system and the harmonic oscillator, and energy probability distributions are calculated. Comparisons made with recent qubit experiments show this type of measurement provides another method to quantify entanglement with the environment.

id: quant-ph/0501018
title: Ground State Entanglement Energetics
authors: M. Buttiker, A. N. Jordan
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physica E 29, 272 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501018
abstract: We consider the ground state of simple quantum systems coupled to an environment. In general the system is entangled with its environment. As a consequence, even at zero temperature, the energy of the system is not sharp: a projective measurement can find the system in an excited state. We show that energy fluctuation measurements at zero temperature provide entanglement information. For two-state systems which exhibit a persistent current in the ground state, energy fluctuations and persistent current fluctuations are closely related. The harmonic oscillator serves to illustrate energy fluctuations in a system with an infinite number of states. In addition to the energy distribution we discuss the energy-energy time-correlation function in the zero-temperature limit.

id: quant-ph/0501019
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger correlation and Bell-type inequality seen from moving frame
authors: Hao You, An Min Wang, Xiaodong Yang, Wanqing Niu, Xiaosan Ma, Feng Xu
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 333(2004) 389-394
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501019
abstract: The relativistic version of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger experiment with massive particles is proposed. We point out that, in the moving frame, GHZ correlations of spins in original directions transfer to different directions due to the Wigner rotation. Its effect on the degree of violation of Bell-type inequality is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0501020
title: Entanglement Detection in the Stabilizer Formalism
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried Guehne
comments: 15 pages including 2 figures, revtex4; typos corrected, presentation improved; to appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 72, 022340 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501020
abstract: We investigate how stabilizer theory can be used for constructing sufficient conditions for entanglement. First, we show how entanglement witnesses can be derived for a given state, provided some stabilizing operators of the state are known. These witnesses require only a small effort for an experimental implementation and are robust against noise. Second, we demonstrate that also nonlinear criteria based on uncertainty relations can be derived from stabilizing operators. These criteria can sometimes improve the witnesses by adding nonlinear correction terms. All our criteria detect states close to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, cluster and graph states. We show that similar ideas can be used to derive entanglement conditions for states which do not fit the stabilizer formalism, such as the three-qubit W state. We also discuss connections between the witnesses and some Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0501021
title: Classical and quantum fingerprinting with shared randomness and one-sided error
authors: Rolf T. Horn, A. J. Scott, Jonathan Walgate, Richard Cleve, A. I. Lvovsky, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 5, 258 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501021
abstract: Within the simultaneous message passing model of communication complexity, under a public-coin assumption, we derive the minimum achievable worst-case error probability of a classical fingerprinting protocol with one-sided error. We then present entanglement-assisted quantum fingerprinting protocols attaining worst-case error probabilities that breach this bound.

id: quant-ph/0501022
title: Stimulated wave of polarization in 1D Ising chain
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 062338 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501022
abstract: It is demonstrated that in one-dimensional Ising chain with nearest-neighbor interactions, irradiated by a weak resonant transverse field, a stimulated wave of flipped spins can be triggered by a flip of a single spin. This analytically solvable model illustrates mechanisms of quantum amplification and quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0501023
title: On PPT States in KxMxN Composite Quantum Systems
authors: Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Ke Wu
comments: 13 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 42 (2004) 215-222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501023
abstract: We study the general representations of positive partial transpose (PPT) states in ${\cal C}^K \otimes {\cal C}^M \otimes {\cal C}^N$. For the PPT states with rank-$N$ a canonical form is obtained, from which a sufficient separability condition is presented.

id: quant-ph/0501024
title: Hamiltonian structures for Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek, Piotr Kosinski
comments: 16 pages, no figures, final version published in Acta Phys. Polon.B
journal: Acta Phys. Polon.B 36 (2005), 2115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501024
abstract: The hamiltonian structures for quartic oscillator are considered. All structures admitting quadratic hamiltonians are classified.

id: quant-ph/0501025
title: Auto-compensating differential phase shift quantum key distribution
authors: Xiaohong Han, Guang Wu, Chunyuan Zhou, Heping Zeng
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501025
abstract: We propose an auto-compensating differential phase shift scheme for quantum key distribution with a high key-creation efficiency, which skillfully makes use of automatic alignment of the photon polarization states in optical fiber with modified Michelson interferometers composed of unequal arms with Faraday mirrors at the ends. The Faraday-mirrors-based Michelson interferometers not only function as pulse splitters, but also enable inherent compensation of polarization mode dispersion in the optic-fiber paths at both Alice's and Bob's sites. The sequential pulses encoded by differential phase shifts pass through the quantum channel with the same polarization states, resulting in a stable key distribution immune to the polarization mode dispersion in the quantum channel. Such a system features perfect stability and higher key creation efficiency over traditional schemes.

id: quant-ph/0501026
title: Classical and quantum radiation reaction for linear acceleration
authors: Atsushi Higuchi, Giles D. R. Martin
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX. Details and extension of calculations outlined in Phys.Rev. D70 (2004) 081701(R), quant-ph/0407162
journal: Found.Phys. 35 (2005) 1149-1179
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501026
abstract: We investigate the effect of radiation reaction on the motion of a wave packet of a charged scalar particle linearly accelerated in quantum electrodynamics. We give the details of the calculations for the case where the particle is accelerated by a static potential that were outlined in Phys.Rev. D 70 (2004) 081701(R) and present similar results in the case of a time-dependent but space-independent potential. In particular, we calculate the expectation value of the position of the charged particle after the acceleration, to first order in the fine structure constant in the $\hbar \to 0$ limit, and find that the change in the expectation value of the position (the position shift) due to radiation reaction agrees exactly with the result obtained using the Lorentz-Dirac force in classical electrodynamics for both potentials. We also point out that the one-loop correction to the potential may contribute to the position change in this limit.

id: quant-ph/0501027
title: On hybrid states of two and three level atoms
authors: C. Billionnet
comments: 33 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501027
abstract: We calculate atom-photon resonances in the Wigner-Weisskopf model, admitting two photons and choosing a particular coupling function. We also present a rough description of the set of resonances in a model for a three-level atom coupled to the photon field. We give a general picture of matter-field resonances these results fit into.

id: quant-ph/0501028
title: Three-region vacuum nonlocality
authors: J. Silman, B. Reznik
comments: 6 pages, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501028
abstract: The correlations between three arbitrarily far-apart regions of the vacuum state of the free Klein-Gordon field are investigated by means of its finite duration coupling to three localized detectors. It is shown that these correlations cannot be reproduced in terms of a hybrid local-nonlocal hidden-variable model, i.e., the correlations between three arbitrarily separated regions of the vacuum are fully nonlocal.

id: quant-ph/0501029
title: Thermal Entanglement between Alternate Qubits of a Four-qubit Heisenberg XX Chain in a Magnetic Field
authors: M. Cao, S. Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501029
abstract: The concurrence of two alternate qubits in a four-qubit Heisenberg XX chain is investigated when a uniform magnetic field B is included. It is found that there is no thermal entanglement between alternate qubits if B is close to zero. Magnetic field can induce entanglement in a certain range both for the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic cases. Near zero temperature, the entanglement undergoes two sudden changes with increasing value of the magnetic field B. This is due to the changes in the ground state. This novel property may be used as quantum entanglement switch. The anisotropy in the system can also induce the entanglement between two alternate qubits.

id: quant-ph/0501030
title: The simplest Bell's theorem, with or without locality
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: 4 pages, no figure; Title, abstract and form of content revised to reflect several talks' feedback and to refine some arguments, in particular about the non-locality issue. Less background is assumed. The remark that the new inequality was not one of Boole's Conndition of Possible Experience was wrong
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501030
abstract: We prove here a version of Bell's Theorem that is simpler than any previous one. The contradiction of Bell's inequality with Quantum Mechanics in the new version is not cured by non-locality so that this version allows one to single out classical realism, and not locality, as the common source of all false inequalities of Bell's type.

id: quant-ph/0501031
title: Quantum non-demolition measurement saturates fidelity trade-off
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta Jr., Radim Filip}
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501031
abstract: A general quantum measurement on an unknown quantum state enables us to estimate what the state originally was. Simultaneously, the measurement has a destructive effect on a measured quantum state which is reflected by the decrease of the output fidelity. We show for any $d$-level system that quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement controlled by a suitably prepared ancilla is a measurement in which the decrease of the output fidelity is minimal. The ratio between the estimation fidelity and the output fidelity can be continuously controlled by the preparation of the ancilla. Different measurement strategies on the ancilla are also discussed. Finally, we propose a feasible scheme of such a measurement for atomic and optical 2-level systems based on basic controlled-NOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0501032
title: Entanglement in spin-one Heisenberg chains
authors: XiaoGuang Wang, HaiBin Li, Zhe Sun, You-Quan Li
comments: 7 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501032
abstract: By using the concept of negativity, we study entanglement in spin-one Heisenberg chains. Both the bilinear chain and the bilinear-biquadratic chain are considered. Due to the SU(2) symmetry, the negativity can be determined by two correlators, which greatly facilitate the study of entanglement properties. Analytical results of negativity are obtained in the bilinear model up to four spins and the two-spin bilinear-biquadratic model, and numerical results of negativity are presented. We determine the threshold temperature before which the thermal state is doomed to be entangled.

id: quant-ph/0501033
title: Tensor polarizability and dispersive quantum measurement of multilevel atoms
authors: JM Geremia, John K. Stockton, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: Significant corrections to theory and data. Full quality figures and other information available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501033
abstract: Optimally extracting information from measurements performed on a physical system requires an accurate model of the measurement interaction. Continuously probing the collective spin of an Alkali atom cloud via its interaction with an off-resonant optical probe is an important example of such a measurement where realistic modeling at the quantum level is possible using standard techniques from atomic physics. Typically, however, tutorial descriptions of this technique have neglected the multilevel structure of realistic atoms for the sake of simplification. In this paper we account for the full multilevel structure of Alkali atoms and derive the irreducible form of the polarizability Hamiltonian describing a typical dispersive quantum measurement. For a specific set of parameters, we then show that semiclassical predictions of the theory are consistent with our experimental observations of polarization scattering by a polarized cloud of laser-cooled Cesium atoms. We also derive the signal-to-noise ratio under a single measurement trial and use this to predict the rate of spin-squeezing with multilevel Alkali atoms for arbitrary detuning of the probe beam.

id: quant-ph/0501034
title: Modified Kaluza-Klein Theory, Quantum Hidden Variables and 3-Dimensional Time
authors: Xiaodong Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501034
abstract: In this paper, the basic quantum field equations of free particle with 0-spin, 1-spin (for case of massless and mass $>$ 0) and 1/2 spin are derived from Einstein equations under modified Kaluza-Klein metric, it shows that the equations of quantum fields can be interpreted as pure geometry properties of curved higher-dimensional time-space . One will find that if we interpret the 5th and 6th dimension as ``extra'' time dimension, the particle's wave-function can be naturally interpreted as a single particle moving along geodesic path in 6-dimensional modified Kaluza-Klein time-space. As the result, the fundamental physical effect of quantum theory such as double-slit interference of single particle, statistical effect of wave-function, wave-packet collapse, spin, Bose-Einstein condensation, Pauli exclusive principle can be interpreted as ``classical'' behavior in new time-space. In the last part of this paper, we will coupling field equations of 0-spin, 1-spin and 1/2-spin particles with gravity equations.

id: quant-ph/0501035
title: Quasi-exact Solvability of Planar Dirac Electron in Coulomb and Magnetic Fields
authors: Chun-Ming Chiang, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: LaTex, 10 pages, no figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 20 (2005) 673-679.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501035
abstract: The Dirac equation for an electron in two spatial dimensions in the Coulomb and homogeneous magnetic fields is a physical example of quasi-exactly solvable systems. This model, however, does not belong to the classes based on the algebra $sl(2)$ which underlies most one-dimensional and effectively one-dimensional quasi-exactly solvable systems. In this paper we demonstrate that the quasi-exactly solvable differential equation possesses a hidden $osp(2,2)$ superalgebra.

id: quant-ph/0501036
title: Experimental Construction of Optical Multi-qubit Cluster States From Bell States
authors: An-Ning Zhang, Chao-Yang Lu, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Yu-Ao Chen, Zhi Zhao, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501036
abstract: Cluster states serve as the central physical resource for the measurement-based quantum computation. We here present a simple experimental demonstration of the scalable cluster-state-construction scheme proposed by Browne and Rudolph. In our experiment, three-photon cluster states are created from two Bell states using linear optical devices. By observing a violation of three-particle Mermin inequality of $|< \textit{A}>| = 3.10\pm0.03 $, we also for the first time report a genuine three-photon entanglement. In addition, the entanglement properties of the cluster states are examined under $\sigma_z$ and $\sigma_x$ measurements on a qubit.

id: quant-ph/0501037
title: Ion trap transducers for quantum electromechanical oscillators
authors: W.K. Hensinger, D.W. Utami, H.-S. Goan, K. Schwab, C. Monroe, G.J. Milburn
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 041405(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501037
abstract: An enduring challenge for contemporary physics is to experimentally observe and control quantum behavior in macroscopic systems. We show that a single trapped atomic ion could be used to probe the quantum nature of a mesoscopic mechanical oscillator precooled to 4K, and furthermore, to cool the oscillator with high efficiency to its quantum ground state. The proposed experiment could be performed using currently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0501038
title: Continuous quantum error correction by cooling
authors: Mohan Sarovar, G. J. Milburn
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Published version. Minor change in content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501038
abstract: We describe an implementation of quantum error correction that operates continuously in time and requires no active interventions such as measurements or gates. The mechanism for carrying away the entropy introduced by errors is a cooling procedure. We evaluate the effectiveness of the scheme by simulation, and remark on its connections to some recently proposed error prevention procedures.

id: quant-ph/0501039
title: On tests of local realism by CP-violation parameters of K^0 mesons
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C42:25-28,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501039
abstract: Recently various papers have proposed to test local realism (LR) by considering electroweak CP-violation parameters values in neutral pseudoscalar meson systems. Considering the large interest for a conclusive test of LR and the experimental accessibility to these tests, in this paper we critically consider these results showing how they, albeit very interesting, require anyway additional assumptions and therefore cannot be considered conclusive tests of LR.

id: quant-ph/0501040
title: Geometric phase around exceptional points
authors: A.A. Mailybaev, O.N. Kirillov, A.P. Seyranian
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, with revisions in the introduction and conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev A 72, 014104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501040
abstract: A wave function picks up, in addition to the dynamic phase, the geometric (Berry) phase when traversing adiabatically a closed cycle in parameter space. We develop a general multidimensional theory of the geometric phase for (double) cycles around exceptional degeneracies in non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We show that the geometric phase is exactly $\pi$ for symmetric complex Hamiltonians of arbitrary dimension and for nonsymmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonians of dimension 2. For nonsymmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonians of higher dimension, the geometric phase tends to $\pi$ for small cycles and changes as the cycle size and shape are varied. We find explicitly the leading asymptotic term of this dependence, and describe it in terms of interaction of different energy levels.

id: quant-ph/0501041
title: The Pioneer anomaly: the measure of a topological phase defect of light in cosmology
authors: J.L. Rosales
comments: 10 pages, some minor notation changes have been made. Some additional remarks were written
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501041
abstract: It is shown that a wave vector representing a light pulse in an adiabatically evolving expanding space should develop, after a round trip (back and forth to the emitter) a geometric phase for helicity states at a given fixed position coordinate of this expanding space.In a section of the Hopf fibration of the Poincare sphere that identifies a projection to the physically allowed states, the evolution defines a parallel transported state that can be joined continuously with the initial state by means of the associated Berry-Pancharatnam connection. The connection allows to compute an anomaly in the frequency for the vector modes in terms of the scale factor of the space-time background being identical to the reported Pioneer Anomaly.

id: quant-ph/0501042
title: Towards deterministic optical quantum computation with coherently driven atomic ensembles
authors: David Petrosyan
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B 7, S141 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501042
abstract: Scalable and efficient quantum computation with photonic qubits requires (i) deterministic sources of single-photons, (ii) giant nonlinearities capable of entangling pairs of photons, and (iii) reliable single-photon detectors. In addition, an optical quantum computer would need a robust reversible photon storage devise. Here we discuss several related techniques, based on the coherent manipulation of atomic ensembles in the regime of electromagnetically induced transparency, that are capable of implementing all of the above prerequisites for deterministic optical quantum computation with single photons.

id: quant-ph/0501043
title: Photon number squeezing of ultra-broadband laser pulses generated by microstructure fibers
authors: K. Hirosawa, H. Furumochi, A. Tada, F. Kannari, M. Takeoka, M. Sasaki
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501043
abstract: To the best of our knowledge, we demonstrate for the first time the generation of photon number squeezing by spectral filtering for ultra-broadband light generated by microstructure fibers at 800 nm. A maximum squeezing of 4.6 dB is observed, corresponding to 10.3 dB after correcting for detection losses. We numerically analyzed the quantum dynamics of ultrashort laser pulse propagation through optical fibers by solving a nonlinear quantum Schrodinger equation that included Raman scattering, especially for the quantum correlation of photon number fluctuation among frequency modes in broadband pulses.

id: quant-ph/0501044
title: Optimal measurements for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem
authors: Dave Bacon, Andrew M. Childs, Wim van Dam
comments: 24 pages; v2: small corrections, updated references, improved layout
journal: Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science (2006), no. 2
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501044
abstract: We consider the dihedral hidden subgroup problem as the problem of distinguishing hidden subgroup states. We show that the optimal measurement for solving this problem is the so-called pretty good measurement. We then prove that the success probability of this measurement exhibits a sharp threshold as a function of the density nu=k/log N, where k is the number of copies of the hidden subgroup state and 2N is the order of the dihedral group. In particular, for nu<1 the optimal measurement (and hence any measurement) identifies the hidden subgroup with a probability that is exponentially small in log N, while for nu>1 the optimal measurement identifies the hidden subgroup with a probability of order unity. Thus the dihedral group provides an example of a group G for which Omega(log|G|) hidden subgroup states are necessary to solve the hidden subgroup problem. We also consider the optimal measurement for determining a single bit of the answer, and show that it exhibits the same threshold. Finally, we consider implementing the optimal measurement by a quantum circuit, and thereby establish further connections between the dihedral hidden subgroup problem and average case subset sum problems. In particular, we show that an efficient quantum algorithm for a restricted version of the optimal measurement would imply an efficient quantum algorithm for the subset sum problem, and conversely, that the ability to quantum sample from subset sum solutions allows one to implement the optimal measurement.

id: quant-ph/0501045
title: Capacity Theorems for Quantum Multiple Access Channels: Classical-Quantum and Quantum-Quantum Capacity Regions
authors: Jon Yard, Igor Devetak, Patrick Hayden
comments: 38 pages, 1 figure. Fixed typos, added new example. Submitted to IEEE Tranactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 54:3091-3113, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501045
abstract: We consider quantum channels with two senders and one receiver. For an arbitrary such channel, we give multi-letter characterizations of two different two-dimensional capacity regions. The first region is comprised of the rates at which it is possible for one sender to send classical information, while the other sends quantum information. The second region consists of the rates at which each sender can send quantum information. For each region, we give an example of a channel for which the corresponding region has a single-letter description. One of our examples relies on a new result proved here, perhaps of independent interest, stating that the coherent information over any degradable channel is concave in the input density operator. We conclude with connections to other work and a discussion on generalizations where each user simultaneously sends classical and quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0501046
title: Cavity QED and Quantum Computation in the Weak Coupling Regime II : Complete Construction of the Controlled-Controlled NOT Gate
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kyoko Higashida, Ryosuke Kato, Yukako Wada
comments: Late files, 44 pages. Contribution to the volume "Quantum Computing: New Research" to be published by Nova Science Publishers
journal: Trends in Quantum Computing Research, Susan Shannon (Ed.), Chapter 8, Nova Science Publishers, 2006 ; Computer Science and Quantum Computing, James E. Stones (Ed.), Chapter 1, Nova Science Publishers, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501046
abstract: In this paper we treat a cavity QED quantum computation. Namely, we consider a model of quantum computation based on n atoms of laser-cooled and trapped linearly in a cavity and realize it as the n atoms Tavis-Cummings Hamiltonian interacting with n external (laser) fields. We solve the Schr{\" o}dinger equation of the model in the weak coupling regime to construct the controlled NOT gate in the case of n=2, and to construct the controlled-controlled NOT gate in the case of n=3 by making use of several resonance conditions and rotating wave approximation associated to them. We also present an idea to construct general quantum circuits. The approach is more sophisticated than that of the paper [K. Fujii, Higashida, Kato and Wada, Cavity QED and Quantum Computation in the Weak Coupling Regime, J. Opt. B : Quantum Semiclass. Opt. {\bf 6} (2004), 502]. Our method is not heuristic but completely mathematical, and the significant feature is based on a consistent use of Rabi oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0501047
title: Optical selection rules and phase-dependent adiabatic state control in a superconducting quantum circuit
authors: Yu-xi Liu, J.Q. You, L.F. Wei, C.P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 087001 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501047
abstract: We analyze the optical selection rules of the microwave-assisted transitions in a flux qubit superconducting quantum circuit (SQC). We show that the parities of the states relevant to the superconducting phase in the SQC are well-defined when the external magnetic flux $\Phi_{e}=\Phi_{0}/2$, then the selection rules are same as the ones for the electric-dipole transitions in usual atoms. When $\Phi_{e}\neq \Phi_{0}/2$, the symmetry of the potential of the artificial "atom'' is broken, a so-called $\Delta$-type "cyclic" three-level atom is formed, where one- and two-photon processes can coexist. We study how the population of these three states can be selectively transferred by adiabatically controlling the electromagnetic field pulses. Different from $\Lambda$-type atoms, the adiabatic population transfer in our three-level $\Delta$-atom can be controlled not only by the amplitudes but also by the phases of the pulses.

id: quant-ph/0501048
title: Four-level and two-qubit systems, sub-algebras, and unitary integration
authors: A.R.P.Rau, G.Selvaraj, D. Uskov
comments: 1 gzip file with 1 tex and 9 eps figure files. Unpack with command: gunzip RSU05.tar.gz
journal: Phys.Rev.A71:062316,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501048
abstract: Four-level systems in quantum optics, and for representing two qubits in quantum computing, are difficult to solve for general time-dependent Hamiltonians. A systematic procedure is presented which combines analytical handling of the algebraic operator aspects with simple solutions of classical, first-order differential equations. In particular, by exploiting $su(2) \oplus su(2)$ and $su(2) \oplus su(2) \oplus u(1)$ sub-algebras of the full SU(4) dynamical group of the system, the non-trivial part of the final calculation is reduced to a single Riccati (first order, quadratically nonlinear) equation, itself simply solved. Examples are provided of two-qubit problems from the recent literature, including implementation of two-qubit gates with Josephson junctions.

id: quant-ph/0501049
title: Continuous quantum error correction
authors: Mohan Sarovar, G. J. Milburn
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Presented at QCMC '04 (Univ. of Strathclyde, Glasgow, UK, July 25-29, 2004)
journal: Quantum Communication, Measurement & Computing (QCMC'04), ed. S. M. Barnett, E. Andersson, J. Jeffers, P. Ohberg, O. Hirota (AIP Conference Proceedings), p. 121 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501049
abstract: We describe new implementations of quantum error correction that are continuous in time, and thus described by continuous dynamical maps. We evaluate the performance of such schemes using numerical simulations, and comment on the effectiveness and applicability of continuous error correction for quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0501050
title: Symmetries of the Poincare sphere and decoherence matrices
authors: S. Baskal, Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTeX, 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501050
abstract: The Stokes parameters form a Minkowskian four-vector under various optical transformations. As a consequence, the resulting two-by-two density matrix constitutes a representation of the Lorentz group. The associated Poincare sphere is a geometric representation of the Lorentz group. Since the Lorentz group preserves the determinant of the density matrix, it cannot accommodate the decoherence process through the decaying off-diagonal elements of the density matrix, which yields to an incerese in the value of the determinant. It is noted that the O(3,2) deSitter group contains two Lorentz subgroups. The change in the determinant in one Lorentz group can be compensated by the other. It is thus possible to describe the decoherence process as a symmetry transformation in the O(3,2) space. It is shown also that these two coupled Lorentz groups can serve as a concrete example of Feynman's rest of the universe.

id: quant-ph/0501051
title: Quantum Tomographic Cryptography with a Semiconductor Single Photon Source
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, L. C. Kwek, Lim Jenn Yang, Frederick H. Willeboordse, Looi Shiang Yong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501051
abstract: In this paper we analyze the security of the so-called quantum tomographic cryptography with the source producing entangled photons via an experimental scheme proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 37903 (2004). We determine the range of the experimental parameters for which the protocol is secure against the most general incoherent attacks.

id: quant-ph/0501052
title: Introduction to PT-Symmetric Quantum Theory
authors: Carl M. Bender
comments: 
journal: Contemp.Phys.46:277-292,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501052
abstract: In most introductory courses on quantum mechanics one is taught that the Hamiltonian operator must be Hermitian in order that the energy levels be real and that the theory be unitary (probability conserving). To express the Hermiticity of a Hamiltonian, one writes $H=H^\dagger$, where the symbol $\dagger$ denotes the usual Dirac Hermitian conjugation; that is, transpose and complex conjugate. In the past few years it has been recognized that the requirement of Hermiticity, which is often stated as an axiom of quantum mechanics, may be replaced by the less mathematical and more physical requirement of space-time reflection symmetry (PT symmetry) without losing any of the essential physical features of quantum mechanics. Theories defined by non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians exhibit strange and unexpected properties at the classical as well as at the quantum level. This paper explains how the requirement of Hermiticity can be evaded and discusses the properties of some non-Hermitian PT-symmetric quantum theories.

id: quant-ph/0501053
title: New Quasi-Exactly Solvable Sextic Polynomial Potentials
authors: Carl M. Bender, Maria Monou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501053
abstract: A Hamiltonian is said to be quasi-exactly solvable (QES) if some of the energy levels and the corresponding eigenfunctions can be calculated exactly and in closed form. An entirely new class of QES Hamiltonians having sextic polynomial potentials is constructed. These new Hamiltonians are different from the sextic QES Hamiltonians in the literature because their eigenfunctions obey PT-symmetric rather than Hermitian boundary conditions. These new Hamiltonians present a novel problem that is not encountered when the Hamiltonian is Hermitian: It is necessary to distinguish between the parametric region of unbroken PT symmetry, in which all of the eigenvalues are real, and the region of broken PT symmetry, in which some of the eigenvalues are complex. The precise location of the boundary between these two regions is determined numerically using extrapolation techniques and analytically using WKB analysis.

id: quant-ph/0501054
title: A New Approach to Solve the Low-lying States of the Schroedinger Equation
authors: T. D. Lee
comments: 54 pages, 3 figures given separately
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501054
abstract: We review a new iterative procedure to solve the low-lying states of the Schroedinger equation, done in collaboration with Richard Friedberg. For the groundstate energy, the $n^{th}$ order iterative energy is bounded by a finite limit, independent of $n$; thereby it avoids some of the inherent difficulties faced by the usual perturbative series expansions. For a fairly large class of problems, this new procedure can be proved to give convergent iterative solutions. These convergent solutions include the long standing difficult problem of a quartic potential with either symmetric or asymmetric minima.

id: quant-ph/0501055
title: A scheme for quantum communication using EPR pairs and local measurement
authors: Feng-Li Yan, Ting Gao
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501055
abstract: We present a scheme for quantum communication, where a set of EPR pairs, initially shared by the sender Alice and the receiver Bob, functions as a quantum channel. After insuring the safety of the quantum channel, Alice applies local measurement on her particles of the EPR pairs and informs Bob the encoding classical information publicly. According to Alice's classical information and his measurement outcomes on the EPR pairs Bob can infer the secret messages directly. In this scheme, to transmit one bit secret message, the sender Alice only needs to send one bit classical information to the receiver Bob. We also show that this scheme is completely secure if perfect quantum channel is used.

id: quant-ph/0501056
title: The Symmetric Group Defies Strong Fourier Sampling: Part I
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell, Leonard J. Schulman
comments: 19 pages; v2 fix typos; v3 adds material on structured permutations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501056
abstract: We resolve the question of whether Fourier sampling can efficiently solve the hidden subgroup problem. Specifically, we show that the hidden subgroup problem over the symmetric group cannot be efficiently solved by strong Fourier sampling, even if one may perform an arbitrary POVM on the coset state. Our results apply to the special case relevant to the Graph Isomorphism problem.

id: quant-ph/0501057
title: The quantum adversary method and classical formula size lower bounds
authors: Sophie Laplante, Troy Lee, Mario Szegedy
comments: Appears in Conference on Computational Complexity 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501057
abstract: We introduce two new complexity measures for Boolean functions, or more generally for functions of the form f:S->T. We call these measures sumPI and maxPI. The quantity sumPI has been emerging through a line of research on quantum query complexity lower bounds via the so-called quantum adversary method [Amb02, Amb03, BSS03, Zha04, LM04], culminating in [SS04] with the realization that these many different formulations are in fact equivalent. Given that sumPI turns out to be such a robust invariant of a function, we begin to investigate this quantity in its own right and see that it also has applications to classical complexity theory. As a surprising application we show that sumPI^2(f) is a lower bound on the formula size, and even, up to a constant multiplicative factor, the probabilistic formula size of f. We show that several formula size lower bounds in the literature, specifically Khrapchenko and its extensions [Khr71, Kou93], including a key lemma of [Has98], are in fact special cases of our method. The second quantity we introduce, maxPI(f), is always at least as large as sumPI(f), and is derived from sumPI in such a way that maxPI^2(f) remains a lower bound on formula size. While sumPI(f) is always a lower bound on the quantum query complexity of f, this is not the case in general for maxPI(f). A strong advantage of sumPI(f) is that it has both primal and dual characterizations, and thus it is relatively easy to give both upper and lower bounds on the sumPI complexity of functions. To demonstrate this, we look at a few concrete examples, for three functions: recursive majority of three, a function defined by Ambainis, and the collision problem.

id: quant-ph/0501058
title: Continuous measurements in a composite quantum system and possible exchange of information between its parts
authors: E.D.Vol
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501058
abstract: We study an influence of the continuous measurement in a composite quantum system C on the evolution of the states of its parts. It is shown that the character of the evolution (decoherence or recoherence) depends on the type of the measured quantity and on the initial state of the system. A number of conditions under which the states of the subsystems of C decohere during the measuring process are established. We propose a model of the composite system and specify the observable the measurement of which may result in the recoherence of the state of one of the subsystems of C. In the framework of this model we find the optimal regime for the exchange of information between the parts of C during the measurement. The main characteristics of such a process are computed. We propose a scheme of detection of the recoherence under the measurement in a concrete physical experiment.

id: quant-ph/0501059
title: Star clusters dynamics in a laboratory: electrons in an ultracold plasma
authors: D. Comparat, T. Vogt, N. Zahzam, M. Mudrich, P. Pillet
comments: Submitted to MNRAS
journal: Mon.Not.Roy.Astron.Soc.361:1227-1242,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501059
abstract: Electrons in a spherical ultracold quasineutral plasma at temperature in the Kelvin range can be created by laser excitation of an ultra-cold laser cooled atomic cloud. The dynamical behavior of the electrons is similar to the one described by conventional models of stars clusters dynamics. The single mass component, the spherical symmetry and no stars evolution are here accurate assumptions. The analog of binary stars formations in the cluster case is three-body recombination in Rydberg atoms in the plasma case with the same Heggie's law: soft binaries get softer and hard binaries get harder. We demonstrate that the evolution of such an ultracold plasma is dominated by Fokker-Planck kinetics equations formally identical to the ones controlling the evolution of a stars cluster. The Virial theorem leads to a link between the plasma temperature and the ions and electrons numbers. The Fokker-Planck equation is approximate using gaseous and fluid models. We found that the electrons are in a Kramers-Michie-King's type quasi-equilibrium distribution as stars in clusters. Knowing the electron distribution and using forced fast electron extraction we are able to determine the plasma temperature knowing the trapping potential depth.

id: quant-ph/0501060
title: A quantum lower bound for the query complexity of Simon's problem
authors: Pascal Koiran, Vincent Nesme, Natacha Portier
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501060
abstract: Simon in his FOCS'94 paper was the first to show an exponential gap between classical and quantum computation. The problem he dealt with is now part of a well-studied class of problems, the hidden subgroup problems. We study Simon's problem from the point of view of quantum query complexity and give here a first nontrivial lower bound on the query complexity of a hidden subgroup problem, namely Simon's problem. Our bound is optimal up to a constant factor.

id: quant-ph/0501061
title: Optimal quantum repeaters for qubits and qudits
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: Revised version. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol 71, 052307 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501061
abstract: A class of optimal quantum repeaters for qubits is suggested. The schemes are minimal, i.e. involve a single additional probe qubit, and optimal, i.e. provide the maximum information adding the minimum amount of noise. Information gain and state disturbance are quantified by fidelities which, for our schemes, saturate the ultimate bound imposed by quantum mechanics for randomly distributed signals. Special classes of signals are also investigated, in order to improve the information-disturbance trade-off. Extension to higher dimensional signals (qudits) is straightforward.

id: quant-ph/0501062
title: Feasibility of the interlock protocol against man-in-the-middle attacks on quantum cryptography
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 3, No. 4 (2005) 649-654
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501062
abstract: If an eavesdropper succeeds in compromising the quantum as well as the classical channels and mimics the receiver "Bob" for the sender "Alice" and vice versa, one defence strategy is the successive, temporally interlocked partial transmission of the entire encrypted message.

id: quant-ph/0501063
title: Teleportation of the States of Motion of Atoms by Interaction with Two-Slit Screens and Cavities
authors: E. S. Guerra
comments: 7 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501063
abstract: We present a scheme of teleportation of the state of motion of atoms making use of screens with slits and cavities. The fascinating aspects of quantum mechanics are highlighted making use of entanglement and the interaciton of atoms with slits.

id: quant-ph/0501064
title: Using continuous measurement to protect a universal set of quantum gates within a perturbed decoherence-free subspace
authors: Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca, Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Reginaldo d. J. Napolitano
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. To be published in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L95-L102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501064
abstract: We consider a universal set of quantum gates encoded within a perturbed decoherence-free subspace of four physical qubits. Using second-order perturbation theory and a measuring device modeled by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators, simply coupled to the system, we show that continuous observation of the coupling agent induces inhibition of the decoherence due to spurious perturbations. We thus advance the idea of protecting or even creating a decoherence-free subspace for processing quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0501065
title: Equivalence between two-mode spin squeezed states and pure entangled states with equal spin
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, L205 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501065
abstract: We prove that a pure entangled state of two subsystems with equal spin is equivalent to a two-mode spin-squeezed state under local operations except for a set of bipartite states with measure zero, and we provide a counterexample to the generalization of this result to two subsystems of unequal spin.

id: quant-ph/0501066
title: The Symmetric Group Defies Strong Fourier Sampling: Part II
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 18 pages; v2: fix typos, v3: adds technical lemma and revises Lemma 19
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501066
abstract: Part I of this paper showed that the hidden subgroup problem over the symmetric group--including the special case relevant to Graph Isomorphism--cannot be efficiently solved by strong Fourier sampling, even if one may perform an arbitrary POVM on the coset state. In this paper, we extend these results to entangled measurements. Specifically, we show that the hidden subgroup problem on the symmetric group cannot be solved by any POVM applied to pairs of coset states. In particular, these hidden subgroups cannot be determined by any polynomial number of one- or two-register experiments on coset states.

id: quant-ph/0501067
title: A comparative analysis of tunneling time concepts: Where do transmitted particles start from, on the average?
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 6 pages, Revtex, 8 eps-figures, formulae on page 5 are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501067
abstract: In this paper we compare the concept of the tunneling time introduced in quant-ph/0405028 with those of the phase and dwell times. As is shown, unlike the latter our definition of the transmission time coincides, in the limit of weak scattering potentials, with that for a free particle. This is valid for all values of the particle's momentum, including the case of however slow particles. All three times are also considered for a resonant tunneling. In all the cases the main feature to distinguish our concept from others is that the average starting point of transmitted (reflected) particles does not coincide with that of all particles. One has to stress here that there is no such an experiment which would give coordinates of all the three points, simultaneously. For measuring the position of the average starting point of transmitted particles we propose an experimental scheme based on the Larmor precession effect.

id: quant-ph/0501068
title: Quantum parallel dense coding of optical images
authors: T.Yu.Golubeva, Yu.M.Golubev, I.V.Sokolov, M.I.Kolobov
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4. Submitted to the Special Issue on Quantum Imaging in Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics Vol. 53, Nos. 5 - 6, 2006, 699 - 711
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501068
abstract: We propose quantum dense coding protocol for optical images. This protocol extends the earlier proposed dense coding scheme for continuous variables [S.L.Braunstein and H.J.Kimble, Phys.Rev.A 61, 042302 (2000)] to an essentially multimode in space and time optical quantum communication channel. This new scheme allows, in particular, for parallel dense coding of non-stationary optical images. Similar to some other quantum dense coding protocols, our scheme exploits the possibility of sending a classical message through only one of the two entangled spatially-multimode beams, using the other one as a reference system. We evaluate the Shannon mutual information for our protocol and find that it is superior to the standard quantum limit. Finally, we show how to optimize the performance of our scheme as a function of the spatio-temporal parameters of the multimode entangled light and of the input images.

id: quant-ph/0501069
title: Bell's inequality tests with meson-antimeson pairs
authors: A. Bramon, R. Escribano, G. Garbarino
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure. Contribution to the Festschrift in honor of Prof. E. Santos for his 70th birthday
journal: Found.Phys. 36 (2006) 563-584
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501069
abstract: Recent proposals to test Bell's inequalities with entangled pairs of pseudoscalar mesons are reviewed. This includes pairs of neutral kaons or B-mesons and offers some hope to close both the locality and the detection loopholes. Specific difficulties, however, appear thus invalidating most of those proposals. The best option requires the use of kaon regeneration effects and could lead to a successful test if moderate kaon detection efficiencies are achieved.

id: quant-ph/0501070
title: On Collective Effects in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Bo-Sture K Skagerstam
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, 36 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501070
abstract: We investigate the role of collective effects in the micromaser system as used in various studies of the physics of cavity electrodynamics. We focus our attention on the effect on large-time correlations due to multi-atom interactions. The influence of detection efficiencies and collective effects on the appearance of trapping states at low temperatures is also found to be of particular importance.

id: quant-ph/0501071
title: Implementation Schemes for the Factorized Quantum Lattice-Gas Algorithm for the One Dimensional Diffusion Equation using Persistent-Current Qubits
authors: David M. Berns, T. P. Orlando
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501071
abstract: We present two experimental schemes that can be used to implement the Factorized Quantum Lattice-Gas Algorithm for the 1D Diffusion Equation with Persistent-Current Qubits. One scheme involves biasing the PC Qubit at multiple flux bias points throughout the course of the algorithm. An implementation analogous to that done in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Quantum Computing is also developed. Errors due to a few key approximations utilized are discussed and differences between the PC Qubit and NMR systems are highlighted.

id: quant-ph/0501072
title: Practical measurement of joint weak values and their connection to the annihilation operator
authors: J. S. Lundeen, K. J. Resch
comments: 13 pages, accepted to Physics Letters A (Dec. 2004)
journal: Physics Letters A 334 (2005) 337-344.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501072
abstract: Weak measurements are a new tool for characterizing post-selected quantum systems during their evolution. Weak measurement was originally formulated in terms of von Neumann interactions which are practically available for only the simplest single-particle observables. In the present work, we extend and greatly simplify a recent, experimentally feasible, reformulation of weak measurement for multiparticle observables [Resch and Steinberg (2004, Phys. Rev. Lett., 92, 130402)]. We also show that the resulting ``joint weak values'' take on a particularly elegant form when expressed in terms of annihilation operators.

id: quant-ph/0501073
title: Impossibility of perfect quantum sealing of classical information
authors: H. Bechmann-Pasquinucci, G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 3 435-440 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501073
abstract: Sealing information means making it publicly available, but with the possibility of knowing if it has been read. Commenting on [1], we will show that perfect quantum sealing is not possible for perfectly retrievable information, due to the possibility of performing a perfect measurement without disturbance, even on unknown states. The measurement is a collective one, and this makes the protocol of quantum sealing very interesting as the only example of the power of collective measurements in breaking security.

id: quant-ph/0501074
title: Quantum Goppa Codes over Hyperelliptic Curves
authors: Annika Niehage
comments: 93 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501074
abstract: This Diplom thesis provides an explicit construction of a quantum Goppa code for any hyperelliptic curve over a non-binary field. Hyperelliptic curves have conjugate pairs of rational places. We use these pairs to construct self-orthogonal classical Goppa codes with respect to a weighted inner product. These codes are also self-orthogonal with respect to a symplectic inner product and therefore define quantum stabilizer codes. A final transformation leads to a quantum Goppa code with respect to the standard symplectic inner product. Some examples illustrate the described construction. Furthermore we present a projection of a higher dimensional code onto the base field and a special case when the projected code is again weighted self-orthogonal and symmetric.

id: quant-ph/0501075
title: Teleportation of bipartite states using a single entangled pair
authors: Mary M. Cola, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, to appear on Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A vol 337, 10 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501075
abstract: A class of quantum protocols to teleport bipartite (entangled) states of two qubits is suggested. Our schemes require a single entangled pair shared by the two parties and the transmission of three bits of classical information, as well as a two-qubit gate with an additional qubit at the receiver' location. Noisy quantum channels are considered and the effects on both the teleportation fidelity and the entanglement of the replica are evaluated.

id: quant-ph/0501076
title: Buckyball Quantum Computer: Realization of a Quantum Gate
authors: M.S. Garelli, F.V. Kusmartsev
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501076
abstract: We have studied a system composed by two endohedral fullerene molecules. We have found that this system can be used as good candidate for the realization of Quantum Gates Each of these molecules encapsules an atom carrying a spin,therefore they interact through the spin dipole interaction. We show that a phase gate can be realized if we apply on each encased spin static and time dependent magnetic field. We have evaluated the operational time of a $\pi$-phase gate, which is of the order of ns. We made a comparison between the theoretical estimation of the gate time and the experimental decoherence time for each spin. The comparison shows that the spin relaxation time is much larger than the $\pi$-gate operational time. Therefore, this indicates that, during the decoherence time, it is possible to perform some thousands of quantum computational operations. Moreover, through the study of concurrence, we get very good results for the entanglement degree of the two-qubit system. This finding opens a new avenue for the realization of Quantum Computers.

id: quant-ph/0501077
title: Quantum-noise--randomized data-encryption for WDM fiber-optic networks
authors: Eric Corndorf, Chuang Liang, Gerg S. Kanter, Prem Kumar, Horace P. Yuen
comments: Version 2: Some errors have been corrected and arguments refined. To appear in Physical Review A. Version 3: Minor corrections to version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501077
abstract: We demonstrate high-rate randomized data-encryption through optical fibers using the inherent quantum-measurement noise of coherent states of light. Specifically, we demonstrate 650Mbps data encryption through a 10Gbps data-bearing, in-line amplified 200km-long line. In our protocol, legitimate users (who share a short secret-key) communicate using an M-ry signal set while an attacker (who does not share the secret key) is forced to contend with the fundamental and irreducible quantum-measurement noise of coherent states. Implementations of our protocol using both polarization-encoded signal sets as well as polarization-insensitive phase-keyed signal sets are experimentally and theoretically evaluated. Different from the performance criteria for the cryptographic objective of key generation (quantum key-generation), one possible set of performance criteria for the cryptographic objective of data encryption is established and carefully considered.

id: quant-ph/0501078
title: Entanglement Swapping: Entangling Atoms That Never Interacted
authors: E. S. Guerra, C. R. Carvalho
comments: 17 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501078
abstract: In this paper we discuss four different proposals of entangling atomic states of particles which have never interacted. The experimental realization proposed makes use of the interaction of Rydberg atoms with a micromaser cavity prepared in either a coherent state or in a superposition of the zero and one field Fock states. We consider atoms in either a three-level cascade or lambda configuration

id: quant-ph/0501079
title: Multipartite Entanglement Measure
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A 71 042331 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501079
abstract: In this paper, we generalize the residual entanglement to the case of multipartite states in arbitrary dimensions by making use of a new method. Through the introduction of a special entanglement measure, the residual entanglement of mixed states takes on a form that is more elegant than that in Ref.[7] (Phys.Rev.A 61 (2000) 052306) . The result obtained in this paper is different from the previous one given in Ref.[8] (Phys.Rev.A 63 (2000) 044301). Several examples demonstrate that our present result is a good measurement of the multipartite entanglement. Furthermore, the original residual entanglement is a special case of our result.

id: quant-ph/0501080
title: Localization of Relative-Position of Two Atoms Induced by Spontaneous Emission
authors: L.Zheng, C.Li, Y.Li, C.P.Sun
comments: 8 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501080
abstract: We revisit the back-action of emitted photons on the motion of the relative position of two cold atoms. We show that photon recoil resulting from the spontaneous emission can induce the localization of the relative position of the two atoms through the entanglement between the spatial motion of individual atoms and their emitted photons. The result provides a more realistic model for the analysis of the environment-induced localization of a macroscopic object.

id: quant-ph/0501081
title: Quantum perfect correlations
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: Latex, 31 pages. Typos are corrected in ver 2
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 744-769
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501081
abstract: The notion of perfect correlations between arbitrary observables, or more generally arbitrary POVMs, is introduced in the standard formulation of quantum mechanics, and characterized by several well-established statistical conditions. The transitivity of perfect correlations is proved to generally hold, and applied to a simple articulation for the failure of Hardy's nonlocality proof for maximally entangled states. The notion of perfect correlations between observables and POVMs is used for defining the notion of a precise measurement of a given observable in a given state. A longstanding misconception on the correlation made by the measuring interaction is resolved in the light of the new theory of quantum perfect correlations.

id: quant-ph/0501082
title: Entanglement and spin squeezing properties for three bosons in two modes
authors: B. Zeng, D. L. Zhou, Z. Xu, L. You
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; corrected figure sequence. Thanks to Dr. Han Pu
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042317 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501082
abstract: We discuss the canonical form for a pure state of three identical bosons in two modes, and classify its entanglement correlation into two types, the analogous GHZ and the W types as well known in a system of three distinguishable qubits. We have performed a detailed study of two important entanglement measures for such a system, the concurrence $\mathcal{C}$ and the triple entanglement measure $\tau$. We have also calculated explicitly the spin squeezing parameter $\xi$ and the result shows that the W state is the most ``anti-squeezing'' state, for which the spin squeezing parameter cannot be regarded as an entanglement measure.

id: quant-ph/0501083
title: Teleportation in the Background of Schwarzschild Space-time
authors: Xian-Hui Ge, You-Gen Shen
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.B606:184-188,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501083
abstract: Quantum teleportation is investigated between Alice who is far from the horizon and Bob locates near the event horizon of a Schwarzschild black hole. The results show that the fidelity of the teleportation is reduced in this curved space-time. However, high fidelity can still be reached outside a massive black hole.

id: quant-ph/0501084
title: Quantum Detection with Unknown States
authors: Noam Elron, Yonina C. Eldar
comments: Refereed version. Improved numerical examples and figures. A few typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501084
abstract: We address the problem of distinguishing among a finite collection of quantum states, when the states are not entirely known. For completely specified states, necessary and sufficient conditions on a quantum measurement minimizing the probability of a detection error have been derived. In this work, we assume that each of the states in our collection is a mixture of a known state and an unknown state. We investigate two criteria for optimality. The first is minimization of the worst-case probability of a detection error. For the second we assume a probability distribution on the unknown states, and minimize of the expected probability of a detection error. We find that under both criteria, the optimal detectors are equivalent to the optimal detectors of an ``effective ensemble''. In the worst-case, the effective ensemble is comprised of the known states with altered prior probabilities, and in the average case it is made up of altered states with the original prior probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0501085
title: Geometric phase in dephasing systems
authors: X. X. Yi, L. C. Wang, W. Wang
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 044101(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501085
abstract: Beyond the quantum Markov approximation, we calculate the geometric phase of a two-level system driven by a quantized magnetic field subject to phase dephasing. The phase reduces to the standard geometric phase in the weak coupling limit and it involves the phase information of the environment in general. In contrast with the geometric phase in dissipative systems, the geometric phase acquired by the system can be observed on a long time scale. We also show that with the system decohering to its pointer states, the geometric phase factor tends to a sum over the phase factors pertaining to the pointer states.

id: quant-ph/0501086
title: High-fidelity teleportation beyond the no-cloning limit and entanglement swapping for continuous variables
authors: Nobuyuki Takei, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Takao Aoki, Akira Furusawa
comments: revised version, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220502 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501086
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate continuous-variable quantum teleportation beyond the no-cloning limit. We teleport a coherent state and achieve the fidelity of 0.70$\pm$0.02 that surpasses the no-cloning limit of 2/3. Surpassing the limit is necessary to transfer the nonclassicality of an input quantum state. By using our high-fidelity teleporter, we demonstrate entanglement swapping, namely teleportation of quantum entanglement, as an example of transfer of nonclassicality.

id: quant-ph/0501087
title: Exactly solvable non-Hermitian Jaynes-Cummings-type Hamiltonian admitting entirely real spectra from supersymmetry
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 10 pages (v1); 18 pages, expanded version with several new results (v2); minor cosmetic changes, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. & Gen
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 7313-7324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501087
abstract: It is shown that for a given Hermitian Hamiltonian possessing supersymmetry, there is alwayas a non-hermitian Jaynes-Cummings-type Hamiltonian(JCTH) admitting entirely real spectra. The parent supersymmetric Hamiltonian and the corresponding non-hermitian JCTH are simultaneously diagonalizable. The exact eigenstates of these non-hermitian Hamiltonians are constructed algebraically for certain shape-invariant potentials, including a non-hermitian version of the standard Jaynes-Cummings model for which the parent supersymmetric Hamiltonian is the superoscillator. The positive-definite metric operator in the Hilbert space is constructed explicitly along with the introduction of a new inner product structure, so that the eigenstates form a complete set of orthonormal vectors and the time-evolution is unitary.

id: quant-ph/0501088
title: Hamiltotian Formalism of Game Theory
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure. A progress after quant-ph/0404159 and quant-ph/0405183, one example of calculating NEs of a quantum game in this formulism added in
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501088
abstract: A new representation of Game Theory is developed in this paper. State of players is represented by a density matrix, and payoff function is a set of hermitian operators, which when applied onto the density matrix give the payoff of players. By this formulism, a new way to find the equilibria of games is given by generalizing the thermodynamical evolutionary process leading to equilibrium in Statistical Mechanics. And in this formulism, when quantum objects instead of classical objects are used as the objects in the game, it's naturally leads to the so-called Quantum Game Theory, but with a slight difference in the definition of strategy state of players: the probability distribution is replaced with a density matrix. Further more, both games of correlated and independent players can be reached in this single framework, while traditionally, they are treated separately by Non-cooperative Game Theory and Coalitional Game Theory. Because of the density matrix is used as state of players, besides classical correlated strategy, quantum entangled states can also be used as strategies, which is an entanglement of strategies between players, and it is different with the entanglement of objects' states as in the so-called Quantum Game Theory. At last, in the form of density matrix, a class of quantum games, where the payoff matrixes are commutative, can be reduced into classical games. In this sense, it will put the classical game as a special case of our quantum game.

id: quant-ph/0501089
title: Local cloning of two product states
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Totally rewritten with improved results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032324 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501089
abstract: Local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC) put considerable constraints on many quantum information processing tasks such as cloning and discrimination. Surprisingly however, discrimination of any two pure states survives such constraints in some sense. In this paper, we show that cloning is not that lucky; namely, conclusive LOCC cloning of two product states is strictly less efficient than global cloning.

id: quant-ph/0501090
title: Uncertainty, Monogamy, and Locking of Quantum Correlations
authors: Matthias Christandl, Andreas Winter
comments: 7 pages revtex4, no figures. v2 has improved presentation and a couple of references added
journal: IEEE Trans Inf Theory, vol 51, no 9, pp 3159-3165 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501090
abstract: Squashed entanglement and entanglement of purification are quantum mechanical correlation measures and defined as certain minimisations of entropic quantities. We present the first non-trivial calculations of both quantities. Our results lead to the conclusion that both measures can drop by an arbitrary amount when only a single qubit of a local system is lost. This property is known as "locking" and has previously been observed for other correlation measures, such as the accessible information, entanglement cost and the logarithmic negativity. In the case of squashed entanglement, the results are obtained with the help of an inequality that can be understood as a quantum channel analogue of well-known entropic uncertainty relations. This inequality may prove a useful tool in quantum information theory. The regularised entanglement of purification is known to equal the entanglement needed to prepare a many copies of quantum state by local operations and a sublinear amount of communication. Here, monogamy of quantum entanglement (i.e., the impossibility of a system being maximally entangled with two others at the same time) leads to an exact calculation for all quantum states that are supported either on the symmetric or on the antisymmetric subspace of a dxd-dimensional system.

id: quant-ph/0501091
title: Controlling the Spontaneous Emission Rate of Single Quantum Dots in a 2D Photonic Crystal
authors: Dirk Englund, David Fattal, Edo Waks, Glenn Solomon, Bingyang Zhang, Toshihiro Nakaoka, Yasuhiko Arakawa, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501091
abstract: We observe large spontaneous emission rate modification of individual InAs Quantum Dots (QDs) in 2D a photonic crystal with a modified, high-Q single defect cavity. Compared to QDs in bulk semiconductor, QDs that are resonant with the cavity show an emission rate increase by up to a factor of 8. In contrast, off-resonant QDs indicate up to five-fold rate quenching as the local density of optical states (LDOS) is diminished in the photonic crystal. In both cases we demonstrate photon antibunching, showing that the structure represents an on-demand single photon source with pulse duration from 210 ps to 8 ns. We explain the suppression of QD emission rate using Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) simulations and find good agreement with experiment.

id: quant-ph/0501092
title: Detection of atomic entanglement and electromagnetically induced transparency in velocity-selective coherent population trapping
authors: M. Kiffner, K.-P. Marzlin
comments: Revtex, 9 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 033811 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501092
abstract: We investigate theoretically the optical properties of an atomic gas which has been cooled by the laser cooling method velocity-selective coherent population trapping. We demonstrate that the application of a weak laser pulse gives rise to a backscattered pulse, which is a direct signal for the entanglement in the atomic system, and which leads to single-particle entanglement on the few-photon level. If the pulse is applied together with the pump lasers, it also displays the phenomenon of electromagnetically induced transparency. We suggest that the effect should be observable in a gas of Rubidium atoms.

id: quant-ph/0501093
title: On nonlinear evolution and supraluminal communication between finite quantum systems
authors: M. Ferrero, D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 3, 257 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501093
abstract: We revise the 'no-signaling' condition for the supraluminal communication between two spatially separated finite quantum systems of arbitrary dimensions, thus generalizing a similar preceding approach for two-qubits: non-linear evolution does not necessarily imply the possibility of supraluminal communication between any sort of finite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0501094
title: Mapping deformed hyperbolic potentials into nondeformed ones
authors: A. de Souza Dutra
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501094
abstract: In this work we introduce a mapping between the so called deformed hyperbolic potentials, which are presenting a continuous interest in the last few years, and the corresponding nondeformed ones. As a consequence, we conclude that these deformed potentials do not pertain to a new class of exactly solvable potentials, but to the same one of the corresponding nondeformed ones. Notwithstanding, we can reinterpret this type of deformation as a kind of symmetry of the nondeformed potentials.

id: quant-ph/0501095
title: Calculations of Electric Capacitance in Carbon and BN Nanotubes, and Zigzag Nanographite (BN, BCN) Ribbons
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 4 pages; 6 figures; related: this http URL
journal: Physica E 29 (2005) 628-632
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501095
abstract: Electronic states in nanographite ribbons with zigzag edges are studied using the extended Hubbard model with nearest neighbor Coulomb interactions. The electronic states with the opposite electric charges separated along both edges are analogous as nanocondensers. Therefore, electric capacitance, defined using a relation of polarizability, is calculated to examine nano-functionalities. We find that the behavior of the capacitance is widely different depending on whether the system is in the magnetic or charge polarized phases. In the magnetic phase, the capacitance is dominated by the presence of the edge states while the ribbon width is small. As the ribbon becomes wider, the capacitance remains with large magnitudes as the system develops into metallic zigzag nanotubes. It is proportional to the inverse of the width, when the system corresponds to the semiconducting nanotubes and the system is in the charge polarized phase also. The latter behavior could be understood by the presence of an energy gap for charge excitations. In the BN (BCN) nanotubes and ribbons, the electronic structure is always like of semiconductors. The calculated capacitance is inversely proportional to the distance between the positive and negative electrodes.

id: quant-ph/0501096
title: Sequential generation of entangled multi-qubit states
authors: C. Schoen, E. Solano, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac, M. M. Wolf
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110503 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501096
abstract: We consider the deterministic generation of entangled multi-qubit states by the sequential coupling of an ancillary system to initially uncorrelated qubits. We characterize all achievable states in terms of classes of matrix product states and give a recipe for the generation on demand of any multi-qubit state. The proposed methods are suitable for any sequential generation-scheme, though we focus on streams of single photon time-bin qubits emitted by an atom coupled to an optical cavity. We show, in particular, how to generate familiar quantum information states such as W, GHZ, and cluster states, within such a framework.

id: quant-ph/0501097
title: Decoherence in Quantum Systems
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: To be published in Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE NTC Quantum Device Technology Workshop, IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, 4, 77, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501097
abstract: We discuss various definitions of decoherence and how it can be measured. We compare and contrast decoherence in quantum systems with an infinite number of eigenstates (such as the free particle and the oscillator) and spin systems. In the former case, we point out the essential difference between assuming "entanglement at all times" and entanglement with the reservoir occuring at some initial time. We also discuss optimum calculational techniques in both arenas.

id: quant-ph/0501098
title: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno Effects: An Exact Model
authors: T. C. Dorlas, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: SPIE Defence and Security Symposium on Quantum Information and Computation,in Proceedings of SPIE,vol. 5436,194 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501098
abstract: Recent studies suggest that both the quantum Zeno (increase of the natural lifetime of an unstable quantum state by repeated measurements) and anti-Zeno (decrease of the natural lifetime) effects can be made manifest in the same system by simply changing the dissipative decay rate associated with the environment. We present an {\underline{exact}} calculation confirming this expectation.

id: quant-ph/0501099
title: Simple Rate-1/3 Convolutional and Tail-Biting Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: G. David Forney, Jr., Saikat Guha
comments: 5 pages; to appear in Proceedings of 2005 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501099
abstract: Simple rate-1/3 single-error-correcting unrestricted and CSS-type quantum convolutional codes are constructed from classical self-orthogonal $\F_4$-linear and $\F_2$-linear convolutional codes, respectively. These quantum convolutional codes have higher rate than comparable quantum block codes or previous quantum convolutional codes, and are simple to decode. A block single-error-correcting [9, 3, 3] tail-biting code is derived from the unrestricted convolutional code, and similarly a [15, 5, 3] CSS-type block code from the CSS-type convolutional code.

id: quant-ph/0501100
title: A two-step MaxLik-MaxEnt strategy to infer photon distribution from on/off measurement at low quantum efficiency
authors: Andrea R. Rossi, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 figures, to appear in EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D vol 32, p. 223 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501100
abstract: A method based on Maximum-Entropy (ME) principle to infer photon distribution from on/off measurements performed with few and low values of quantum efficiency is addressed. The method consists of two steps: at first some moments of the photon distribution are retrieved from on/off statistics using Maximum-Likelihood estimation, then ME principle is applied to infer the quantum state and, in turn, the photon distribution. Results from simulated experiments on coherent and number states are presented.

id: quant-ph/0501101
title: Stabilizing an atom laser using spatially selective pumping and feedback
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Simon Haine, Joseph J. Hope
comments: 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501101
abstract: We perform a comprehensive study of stability of a pumped atom laser in the presence of pumping, damping and outcoupling. We also introduce a realistic feedback scheme to improve stability by extracting energy from the condensate and determine its effectiveness. We find that while the feedback scheme is highly efficient in reducing condensate fluctuations, it usually does not alter the stability class of a particular set of pumping, damping and outcoupling parameters.

id: quant-ph/0501102
title: Process reconstruction: From unphysical to physical maps via maximum likelihood
authors: Mario Ziman, Martin Plesch, Vladimir Buzek, Peter Stelmachovic
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 72, 022106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501102
abstract: We show that the method of maximum likelihood (MML) provides us with an efficient scheme for reconstruction of quantum channels from incomplete measurement data. By construction this scheme always results in estimations of channels that are completely positive. Using this property we use the MML for a derivation of physical approximations of un-physical operations. In particular, we analyze the optimal approximation of the universal NOT gate as well as a physical approximation of a quantum nonlinear polarization rotation.

id: quant-ph/0501103
title: Einstein's coefficients and the wave-particle duality in the theory of thermal radiation
authors: Fedor V.Prigara
comments: 3 pages, submitted to Albert Einstein Century International Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501103
abstract: It is shown that the concept of elementary resonator in the theory of thermal radiation implies the indivisible connection between particles (photons) and electromagnetic waves. This wave-particle duality covers both the Wien and Rayleigh-Jeans regions of spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0501104
title: Wigner Functions and Separability for Finite Systems
authors: Arthur O. Pittenger, Morton H. Rubin
comments: Some misprints have been corrected and a proof of the separability of the A matrices has been added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 6005-6036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501104
abstract: A discussion of discrete Wigner functions in phase space related to mutually unbiased bases is presented. This approach requires mathematical assumptions which limits it to systems with density matrices defined on complex Hilbert spaces of dimension p^n where p is a prime number. With this limitation it is possible to define a phase space and Wigner functions in close analogy to the continuous case. That is, we use a phase space that is a direct sum of n two-dimensional vector spaces each containing p^2 points. This is in contrast to the more usual choice of a two-dimensional phase space containing p^(2n) points. A useful aspect of this approach is that we can relate complete separability of density matrices and their Wigner functions in a natural way. We discuss this in detail for bipartite systems and present the generalization to arbitrary numbers of subsystems when p is odd. Special attention is required for two qubits (p=2) and our technique fails to establish the separability property for more than two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0501105
title: Unconditional fidelity thresholds in single copy distillation and some aspects of quantum error correction
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Maciej Demianowicz
comments: Preliminary version, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 354, 40-47 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501105
abstract: Various aspects of distillation of noisy entanglement and some associated effects in quantum error correction are considered. In particular we prove that if only one--way classical communication (from Alice to Bob) is allowed and the shared $d \otimes d$ state is not pure then there is a threshold for optimal entanglement fraction $F$ of the state (being an overlap between the shared state and symmetric maximally entangled state) which can be obtained in single copy distillation process. This implies that to get (probabilistically) arbitrary good conclusive teleportation via mixed state at least one classical bit of backward communication (for Bob to Alice) has to be sent. We provide several other threshold properties in this context including in particular the existence of ultimate threshold of optimal $F$ for states of full rank. Finally the threshold results are linked to those of error correction. Namely it is pointed out that in quantum computer working on fixed number of quantum bits almost any kind of noise can be (probabilistically) corrected only to some threshold error bar though there are some (rare) exceptions.

id: quant-ph/0501106
title: Demonstration of the spatial separation of the entangled quantum side-bands of an optical field
authors: E. H. Huntington, G. N. Milford, C. Robilliard, T. C. Ralph, O. Gloeckl, U. L. Andersen, S. Lorenz, G. Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501106
abstract: Quantum optics experiments on "bright" beams typically probe correlations between side-band modes. However the extra degree of freedom represented by this dual mode picture is generally ignored. We demonstrate the experimental operation of a device which can be used to separate the quantum side-bands of an optical field. We use this device to explicitly demonstrate the quantum entanglement between the side-bands of a squeezed beam.

id: quant-ph/0501107
title: Probabilistically implementing nonlocal operation using non-maximally entangled state
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 5 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501107
abstract: We develop the probabilistic implementation of a nonlocal gate $\exp{[i\xi{\sigma_{n_A}}\sigma_{n_B}]}$ and $\xi\in[0,\frac\pi4]$, by using a single non-maximally entangled state. We prove that, nonlocal gates can be implemented with a fidelity greater than 79.3% and a consumption of less than 0.969 ebits and 2 classical bits, when $\xi\leq0.353$. This provides a higher bound for the feasible operation compared to the former techniques \cite{Cirac,Groisman,Bennett-1}. Besides, gates with $\xi\geq0.353$ can be implemented with the probability 79.3% and a consumption of 0.969 ebits, which is the same efficiency as the distillation-based protocol \cite{Groisman,Bennett-1}, while our method saves extra classical resource. Gates with $\xi\to0$ can be implemented with nearly unit probability and a small entanglement. We also generalize some application to the multiple system, where we find it is possible to implement certain nonlocal gates between many non-entangled partners using a non-maximally multiple entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0501108
title: Fault testing quantum switching circuits
authors: Jacob Biamonte, Marek Perkowski
comments: (almost) Forgotten rewrite from 2005
journal: IET Circuits, Devices & Systems 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501108
abstract: Test pattern generation is an electronic design automation tool that attempts to find an input (or test) sequence that, when applied to a digital circuit, enables one to distinguish between the correct circuit behavior and the faulty behavior caused by particular faults. The effectiveness of this classical method is measured by the fault coverage achieved for the fault model and the number of generated vectors, which should be directly proportional to test application time. This work address the quantum process validation problem by considering the quantum mechanical adaptation of test pattern generation methods used to test classical circuits. We found that quantum mechanics allows one to execute multiple test vectors concurrently, making each gate realized in the process act on a complete set of characteristic states in space/time complexity that breaks classical testability lower bounds.

id: quant-ph/0501109
title: A Unified Picture of Decoherence Control
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 14 pages, no figures,added references, minor changes, Contribution to the special issue "Real-time dynamics in complex quantum systems" of Chemical Physics in honour of Phil Pechukas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501109
abstract: The different methods of reducing decoherence in quantum devices are discussed from the unified point of view based on the energy conservation principle and the concept of forbidden transitions. Minimal decoherence model, "bang-bang" techniques, Zeno effect and decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems are studied as particular examples.

id: quant-ph/0501110
title: Entanglement and majorization in (1+1)-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Roman Orus
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, corrected an error in the theorems from sec.III and IV
journal: Phys.Rev.A71:052327,2005; Erratum-ibid.A73:019904,2006; Phys.Rev.A73:019904,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501110
abstract: Motivated by the idea of entanglement loss along Renormalization Group flows, analytical majorization relations are proven for the ground state of (1+1)-dimensional conformal field theories. For any of these theories, majorization is proven to hold in the spectrum of the reduced density matrices in a bipartite system when changing the size L of one of the subsystems. Continuous majorization along uniparametric flows is also proven as long as part of the conformal structure is preserved under the deformation and some monotonicity conditions hold as well. As particular examples of our derivations, we study the cases of the XX, Heisenberg and XY quantum spin chains. Our results provide in a rigorous way explicit proves for all the majorization conjectures raised by Latorre, Lutken, Rico, Vidal and Kitaev in previous papers on quantum spin chains.

id: quant-ph/0501111
title: Quantum theory of microworld and the reality
authors: Milo? V. Lokaj?ek
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501111
abstract: The mathematical model of orthodox quantum mechanics has been critically examined and some deficiencies have been summarized. The model based on the extended Hilbert space and free of these shortages has been proposed; parameters being until now denoted as "hidden" have been involved. Some earlier arguments against a hidden-variable theory have been shown to be false, too. In the known Einstein-Bohr controversy Einstein has been shown to be true. The extended model seems to be strongly supported also by the polarization experiments performed by us ten years ago.

id: quant-ph/0501112
title: Cluster States for Continuous-Variable Multipartite Entanglement
authors: Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages
journal: (revised version) Phys. Rev. A 73, 032318 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501112
abstract: We introduce a new class of continuous-variable (CV) multipartite entangled states, the CV cluster states, which might be generated from squeezing and kerr-like interaction. The entanglement properties of these states are studied in terms of classical communication and local operations. The quantum teleportation network with cluster states is investigated. The graph states as the general forms of cluster states are presented, which may be used to generate CV Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states by simply local measurements and classical communication. A chain for one-dimensional example of cluster states can be readily experimentally produced only with squeezed light and beamsplitters.

id: quant-ph/0501113
title: Entanglement production in Quantized Chaotic Systems
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures. To appear in Pramana:Journal of Physics
journal: Pramana : Journal of Physics 64, 577 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501113
abstract: Quantum chaos is a subject whose major goal is to identify and to investigate different quantum signatures of classical chaos. Here we study entanglement production in coupled chaotic systems as a possible quantum indicator of classical chaos. We use coupled kicked tops as a model for our extensive numerical studies. We find that, in general, presence of chaos in the system produces more entanglement. However, coupling strength between two subsystems is also very important parameter for the entanglement production. Here we show how chaos can lead to large entanglement which is universal and describable by random matrix theory (RMT). We also explain entanglement production in coupled strongly chaotic systems by deriving a formula based on RMT. This formula is valid for arbitrary coupling strengths, as well as for sufficiently long time. Here we investigate also the effect of chaos on the entanglement production for the mixed initial state. We find that many properties of the mixed state entanglement production are qualitatively similar to the pure state entanglement production. We however still lack an analytical understanding of the mixed state entanglement production in chaotic systems.

id: quant-ph/0501114
title: Instantaneous Measurement of field quadrature moments and entanglement
authors: P. Lougovski, H. Walther, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, no figures, modified version with experimental estimations
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 38, 423 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501114
abstract: We present a method of measuring expectation values of quadrature moments of a multimode field through two-level probe ``homodyning''. Our approach is based on an integral transform formalism of measurable probe observables, where analytically derived kernels unravel efficiently the required field information at zero interaction time, minimizing decoherence effects. The proposed scheme is suitable for fields that, while inaccessible to a direct measurement, enjoy one and two-photon Jaynes-Cummings interactions with a two-level probe, like spin, phonon, or cavity fields. Available data from previous experiments are used to confirm our predictions.

id: quant-ph/0501115
title: Synthesizing arbitrary two-photon polarization mixed states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Joseph B. Altepeter, David Branning, Paul M. Goldbart, D. F. V. James, Evan Jeffrey, Paul G. Kwiat, Swagatam Mukhopadhyay, Nicholas A. Peters
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501115
abstract: Two methods for creating arbitrary two-photon polarization pure states are introduced. Based on these, four schemes for creating two-photon polarization mixed states are proposed and analyzed. The first two schemes can synthesize completely arbitrary two-qubit mixed states, i.e., control all 15 free parameters: Scheme I requires several sets of crystals, while Scheme II requires only a single set, but relies on decohering the pump beam. Additionally, we describe two further schemes which are much easier to implement. Although the total capability of these is still being studied, we show that they can synthesize all two-qubit Werner states, maximally entangled mixed states, Collins-Gisin states, and arbitrary Bell-diagonal states.

id: quant-ph/0501116
title: Identifying an Experimental Two-State Hamiltonian to Arbitrary Accuracy
authors: Jared H. Cole, Sonia G. Schirmer, Andrew D. Greentree, Cameron J. Wellard, Daniel K. L. Oi, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: Minor corrections, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501116
abstract: Precision control of a quantum system requires accurate determination of the effective system Hamiltonian. We develop a method for estimating the Hamiltonian parameters for some unknown two-state system and providing uncertainty bounds on these parameters. This method requires only one measurement basis and the ability to initialise the system in some arbitrary state which is not an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian in question. The scaling of the uncertainty is studied for large numbers of measurements and found to be proportional to one on the square-root of the number of measurements.

id: quant-ph/0501117
title: Entanglement in spin-1/2 dimerized Heisenberg systems
authors: Zhe Sun, XiaoGuang Wang, AnZi Hu, You-Quan Li
comments: Four pages, three figures, accepted in Communications in Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501117
abstract: We study entanglement in dimerized Heisenberg systems. In particular, we give exact results of ground-state pairwise entanglement for the four-qubit model by identifying a Z_2 symmetry. Although the entanglements cannot identify the critical point of the system, the mean entanglement of nearest-neighbor qubits really does, namely, it reaches a maximum at the critical point.

id: quant-ph/0501118
title: Radiative Corrections to Multi-Level Mollow-Type Spectra
authors: Ulrich D. Jentschura, Joerg Evers, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: Dedicated to Prof. H. Walther on the occasion of his 70th birthday
journal: Laser Physics 15 (2005) 37-45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501118
abstract: This paper is concerned with two rather basic phenomena: the incoherent fluorescence spectrum of an atom driven by an intense laser field and the coupling of the atom to the (empty) modes of the radiation field. The sum of the many-photon processes gives rise to the inelastic part of the atomic fluorescence, which, for a two-level system, has a well-known characteristic three-peak structure known as the Mollow spectrum. From a theoretical point of view, the Mollow spectrum finds a natural interpretation in terms of transitions among laser-dressed states which are the energy eigenstates of a second-quantized two-level system strongly coupled to a driving laser field. As recently shown, the quasi-energies of the laser-dressed states receive radiative corrections which are nontrivially different from the results which one would expect from an investigation of the coupling of the bare states to the vacuum modes. In this article, we briefly review the basic elements required for the analysis of the dynamic radiative corrections, and we generalize the treatment of the radiative corrections to the incoherent part of the steady-state fluorescence to a three-level system consisting of 1S, 3P and 2S states.

id: quant-ph/0501119
title: How the Quantum Universe Became Classical
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures
journal: Contemporary Physics 46, 93-104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501119
abstract: This is an informal introduction to the ideas of decoherence and emergent classicality, including a simple account of the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory. It is aimed at undergraduates with a basic appreciation of quantum theory. The emphasis is on simple physical ideas and pictures.

id: quant-ph/0501120
title: Quantum chaos algorithms and dissipative decoherence with quantum trajectories
authors: Jae Weon Lee, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 6 pages, 6 figs, research at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. E v.71, p.056202 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501120
abstract: Using the methods of quantum trajectories we investigate the effects of dissipative decoherence in a quantum computer algorithm simulating dynamics in various regimes of quantum chaos including dynamical localization, quantum ergodic regime and quasi-integrable motion. As an example we use the quantum sawtooth algorithm which can be implemented in a polynomial number of quantum gates. It is shown that the fidelity of quantum computation decays exponentially with time and that the decay rate is proportional to the number of qubits, number of quantum gates and per gate dissipation rate induced by external decoherence. In the limit of strong dissipation the quantum algorithm generates a quantum attractor which may have complex or simple structure. We also compare the effects of dissipative decoherence with the effects of static imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0501121
title: Tradeoff between extractable mechanical work, accessible entanglement, and ability to act as a reference system, under arbitrary superselection rules
authors: J.A. Vaccaro, F. Anselmi, H. M. Wiseman, K. Jacobs
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Extended resubmitted version. Slightly modified title. Transferred to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501121
abstract: Superselection rules (SSRs) limit the mechanical and quantum processing resources represented by quantum states. However SSRs can be violated using reference systems to break the underlying symmetry. We show that there is a duality between the ability of a system to do mechanical work and to act as a reference system. Further, for a bipartite system in a globally symmetric pure state, we find a triality between the system's ability to do local mechanical work, its ability to do ``logical work'' due to its accessible entanglement, and its ability to act as a shared reference system.

id: quant-ph/0501122
title: Van der Waals interaction between microparticle and uniaxial crystal with application to hydrogen atoms and multiwall carbon nanotubes
authors: E. V. Blagov, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables. Minor corrections are made and new references added. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.71, N23, p.235401 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501122
abstract: The Lifshitz theory of the van der Waals force is extended for the case of an atom (molecule) interacting with a plane surface of an uniaxial crystal or with a long solid cylinder or cylindrical shell made of isotropic material or uniaxial crystal. For a microparticle near a semispace or flat plate made of an uniaxial crystal the exact expressions for the free energy of the van der Waals and Casimir-Polder interaction are presented. An approximate expression for the free energy of microparticle- cylinder interaction is obtained which becomes precise for microparticle-cylinder separations much smaller than cylinder radius. The obtained expressions are used to investigate the van der Waals interaction between hydrogen atoms (molecules) and graphite plates or multiwall carbon nanotubes. To accomplish this the behavior of graphite dielectric permittivities along the imaginary frequency axis is found using the optical data for the complex refractive index of graphite for the ordinary and extraordinary rays. It is shown that the position of hydrogen atoms inside multiwall carbon nanotubes is energetically preferable compared with outside.

id: quant-ph/0501123
title: Quantum state expansion
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 150504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501123
abstract: It is experimentally demonstrated that an arbitrary quantum state of a single spin 1/2: a|u> + b|d> can be converted into a superposition of the two ferromagnetic states of a spin cluster: a|uu...uu> + b|dd...dd>. The physical system is a cluster of seven dipolar-coupled nuclear spins of single-labeled 13C-benzene molecules in a liquid-crystalline matrix. In this complex system, the pseudopure ground state and the required controlled unitary transformations have been implemented. The experimental scheme can be considered as an explicit model of quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0501124
title: Unfolding a degeneracy point of two unbound states: Crossings and anticrossings of energies and widths
authors: E. Hernandez, A. Jauregui, A. Mondragon, L. Nellen
comments: 6 pages and 3 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501124
abstract: We show that when an isolated doublet of unbound states of a physical system becomes degenerate for some values of the control parameters of the system, the energy hypersurfaces representing the complex resonance energy eigenvalues as functions of the control parameters have an algebraic branch point of rank one in parameter space. Associated with this singularity in parameter space, the scattering matrix, S_l(E), and the Green's function, G_l^(+)(k; r,r'), have one double pole in the unphysical sheet of the complex energy plane. We characterize the universal unfolding or deformation of a typical degeneracy point of two unbound states in parameter space by means of a universal 2-parameter family of functions which is contact equivalent to the pole position function of the isolated doublet of resonances at the exceptional point and includes all small perturbations of the degeneracy condition up to contact equivalence.

id: quant-ph/0501125
title: Nonlocal Gate Of Quantum Network Via Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Xiang-Fa Zhou, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501125
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible scheme to realize the nonlocal gate between two different quantum network nodes. With an entanglement-qubit (ebit) acts as a quantum channel, our scheme is resistive to actual environment noise and can get high fidelity in current cavity quantum electrodynamics (C-QED) system.

id: quant-ph/0501126
title: Primitive Quantum BCH Codes over Finite Fields
authors: Salah Aly, Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 5 pages; title changed, references added, revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501126
abstract: An attractive feature of BCH codes is that one can infer valuable information from their design parameters (length, size of the finite field, and designed distance), such as bounds on the minimum distance and dimension of the code. In this paper, it is shown that one can also deduce from the design parameters whether or not a primitive, narrow-sense BCH contains its Euclidean or Hermitian dual code. This information is invaluable in the construction of quantum BCH codes. A new proof is provided for the dimension of BCH codes with small designed distance, and simple bounds on the minimum distance of such codes and their duals are derived as a consequence. These results allow us to derive the parameters of two families of primitive quantum BCH codes as a function of their design parameters.

id: quant-ph/0501127
title: Nonequilibrium dynamics of moving mirrors in quantum fields: Influence functional and Langevin equation
authors: Chun-Hsien Wu, Da-Shin Lee
comments: 24 pages. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D71 (2005) 125005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501127
abstract: We employ the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism to study the nonequilibrium dynamics of the mirror with perfect reflection moving in a quantum field. Within the regime of linear response in terms of a first order expansion of the mirror's displacement, the coarse-grained effective action is obtained by integrating out quantum fields with the method of influence functional. The semiclassical Langevin equation is derived, and is found to involve two levels of backreaction effects on the dynamics of mirrors: radiation reaction induced by the motion of the mirror and backreaction dissipation arising from fluctuations in quantum fields via a fluctuation-dissipation relation. Although the theorem of fluctuation and dissipation in linear response theory is of model independence, the study from the first principles derivation shows that the obtained theorem is also {\it independent} of the regulators introduced to deal with short-distance divergences from quantum fields. Thus, when the method of regularization is introduced to compute the dissipation and fluctuation effects, this theorem must be fulfilled as the results are obtained by taking the short-distance limit in the end of calculations. The backreaction effects from vacuum fluctuations on moving mirrors are found to be hardly detected while those effects from thermal fluctuations may be detectable.

id: quant-ph/0501128
title: Effect of cavity photons on the generation of multi-particle entanglement
authors: Che-Ming Li, Y.-N. Chen, C.-W. Luo, Jin-Yuan Hsieh, Der-San Chuu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501128
abstract: A study on the cause of the multi-particle entanglement is presented in this work. We investigate how dot-like single quantum well excitons, which are independently coupled through a single microcavity mode, evolve into maximally entangled state as a series of conditional measurements are taken on the cavity field state. We first show how cavity photon affects the entanglement purity of the double-exciton Bell state and the triple-exciton W state. Generalization to multi-excitons W states is then derived analytically. Our results pave the way for studying the crucial cause of multi-particle collective effect.

id: quant-ph/0501129
title: Symmetric multiparty-controlled teleportation of an arbitrary two-particle entanglement
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Chun-Yan Li, Yan-Song Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Yan Wang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; the revised version published in Physical Review A 72, 022338 (2005). The detail for setting up a GHZ-state quantum channel is added
journal: Physical Review A 72, 022338 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501129
abstract: We present a way for symmetric multiparty-controlled teleportation of an arbitrary two-particle entangled state based on Bell-basis measurements by using two Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, i.e., a sender transmits an arbitrary two-particle entangled state to a distant receiver, an arbitrary one of the $n+1$ agents via the control of the others in a network. It will be shown that the outcomes in the cases that $n$ is odd or it is even are different in principle as the receiver has to perform a controlled-not operation on his particles for reconstructing the original arbitrary entangled state in addition to some local unitary operations in the former. Also we discuss the applications of this controlled teleporation for quantum secret sharing of classical and quantum information. As all the instances can be used to carry useful information, its efficiency for qubits approaches the maximal value.

id: quant-ph/0501130
title: Quantum secure conditional direct communication via EPR pairs
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C, Vol.16, No. 8 (2005) 1293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501130
abstract: Two schemes for quantum secure conditional direct communication are proposed, where a set of EPR pairs of maximally entangled particles in Bell states, initially made by the supervisor Charlie, but shared by the sender Alice and the receiver Bob, functions as quantum information channels for faithful transmission. After insuring the security of the quantum channel and obtaining the permission of Charlie (i.e. Charlie is trustworthy and cooperative, which means the 'conditional' in the two schemes), Alice and Bob begin their private communication under the control of Charlie. In the first scheme, Alice transmits secret message to Bob in a deterministic manner with the help of Charlie by means of Alice's local unitary transformations, both Alice and Bob's local measurements, and both of Alice and Charlie's public classical communication. In the second scheme, the secure communication between Alice and Bob can be achieved via public classical communication of Charlie and Alice, and the local measurements of both Alice and Bob. The common feature of these protocols is that the communications between two communication parties Alice and Bob depend on the agreement of the third side Charlie. Moreover, transmitting one bit secret message, the sender Alice only needs to apply a local operation on her one qubit and send one bit classical information. We also show that the two schemes are completely secure if quantum channels are perfect.

id: quant-ph/0501131
title: On the Probabilistic Compatibility of Special Relativity and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Thomas Marlow
comments: 16 pages, submitted to Foundations of Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501131
abstract: In this paper we introduce the three main notions of probability used by physicists and discuss how these are to be used when invoking spacelike separated observers in a relativistic format. We discuss a standard EPRB experiment and concentrate upon problems of the interpretation of probabilities. We promote a particularly conservative interpretation of this experiment (which need not invoke an objective notion of collapse) where probabilities are, tentatively, passively Lorentz invariant. We also argue that the Heisenberg picture is preferable in relativistic situations due to a conflict between the Schrodinger picture and passive Lorentz transformations of probabilities. Throughout most of this paper we discuss the relative frequency interpretation of probability as this is most commonly used. We also introduce the logically necessary notion of `prior-frequency' in discussing whether the choice by an observer can have any causal effect upon the measurement results of another. We also critically examine the foundational use of relative frequency in no-signalling theorems. We argue that SQT and SR are probabilistically compatible, although we do not discuss whether they are compatible on the level of individual events.

id: quant-ph/0501132
title: Entanglement Teleportation Through 1D Heisenberg Chain
authors: X. Hao, S. Zhu
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501132
abstract: Information transmission of two qubits through two independent 1D Heisenberg chains as a quantum channel is analyzed. It is found that the entanglement of two spin-$\frac 12$ quantum systems is decreased during teleportation via the thermal mixed state in 1D Heisenberg chain. The entanglement teleportation will be realized if the minimal entanglement of the thermal mixed state is provided in such quantum channel. High average fidelity of teleportation with values larger than 2/3 is obtained when the temperature {\it T} is very low. The mutual information $\mathcal{I}$ of the quantum channel declines with the increase of the temperature and the external magnetic field. The entanglement quality of input signal states cannot enhance mutual information of the quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0501133
title: Quantum mechanics as "space-time statistical mechanics"?
authors: Anders M?nsson
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501133
abstract: In this paper we discuss and analyse the idea of trying to see (non-relativistic) quantum mechanics as a ``space-time statistical mechanics'', by using the classical statistical mechanical method on objective microscopic space-time configurations. It is argued that this could perhaps be accomplished by giving up the assumption that the objective ``state'' of a system is independent of a future measurement performed on the system. This idea is then applied in an example of quantum state estimation on a qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0501134
title: Popper's test of Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Bramon, R. Escribano
comments: 7 pages, uses svmult style. Contribution to the book dedicated to Prof. Alberto Galindo, on occasion of his seventieth birthday
journal: in Fundamental Physics Meeting "Alberto Galindo", R. F. Alvarez-Estrada, A. Dobado, L. A. Fernandez, M. A. Martin-Delgado, A. Munoz Sudupe (Eds.). Aula Documental de Investigacion, Madrid, 2004, pp. 201-207
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501134
abstract: A test of quantum mechanics proposed by K. Popper and dealing with two-particle entangled states emitted from a fixed source has been criticized by several authors. Some of them claim that the test becomes inconclusive once all the quantum aspects of the source are considered. Moreover, another criticism states that the predictions attributed to quantum mechanics in Popper's analysis are untenable. We reconsider these criticisms and show that, to a large extend, the `falsifiability' potential of the test remains unaffected.

id: quant-ph/0501135
title: A theory of quantum gravity based on quantum computation
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: Plain TeX; 43 pages; 5 figures (pdf); this version with more extensive discussion of quantum cosmology
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501135
abstract: This paper proposes a method of unifying quantum mechanics and gravity based on quantum computation. In this theory, fundamental processes are described in terms of pairwise interactions between quantum degrees of freedom. The geometry of space-time is a construct, derived from the underlying quantum information processing. The computation gives rise to a superposition of four-dimensional spacetimes, each of which obeys the Einstein-Regge equations. The theory makes explicit predictions for the back-reaction of the metric to computational `matter,' black-hole evaporation, holography, and quantum cosmology.

id: quant-ph/0501136
title: Multi-Instantons and Exact Results I: Conjectures, WKB Expansions, and Instanton Interactions
authors: Jean Zinn-Justin, Ulrich D. Jentschura
comments: 66 pages, LaTeX; refs. to part II preprint updated
journal: Ann.Phys.(N.Y.) 313 (2004) 197-267
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501136
abstract: We consider specific quantum mechanical model problems for which perturbation theory fails to explain physical properties like the eigenvalue spectrum even qualitatively, even if the asymptotic perturbation series is augmented by resummation prescriptions to "cure" the divergence in large orders of perturbation theory. Generalizations of perturbation theory are necessary which include instanton configurations, characterized by nonanalytic factors exp(-a/g) where a is a constant and g is the coupling. In the case of one-dimensional quantum mechanical potentials with two or more degenerate minima, the energy levels may be represented as an infinite sum of terms each of which involves a certain power of a nonanalytic factor and represents itself an infinite divergent series. We attempt to provide a unified representation of related derivations previously found scattered in the literature. For the considered quantum mechanical problems, we discuss the derivation of the instanton contributions from a semi-classical calculation of the corresponding partition function in the path integral formalism. We also explain the relation with the corresponding WKB expansion of the solutions of the Schroedinger equation, or alternatively of the Fredholm determinant det(H-E) (and some explicit calculations that verify this correspondence). We finally recall how these conjectures naturally emerge from a leading-order summation of multi-instanton contributions to the path integral representation of the partition function. The same strategy could result in new conjectures for problems where our present understanding is more limited.

id: quant-ph/0501137
title: Multi-Instantons and Exact Results II: Specific Cases, Higher-Order Effects, and Numerical Calculations
authors: Jean Zinn-Justin, Ulrich D. Jentschura
comments: 55 pages, LaTeX; refs. to part I preprint updated
journal: Ann.Phys.(N.Y.) 313 (2004) 269-325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501137
abstract: In this second part of the treatment of instantons in quantum mechanics, the focus is on specific calculations related to a number of quantum mechanical potentials with degenerate minima. We calculate the leading multi-instanton constributions to the partition function, using the formalism introduced in the first part of the treatise [J. Zinn-Justin and U. D. Jentschura, e-print quant-ph/0501136]. The following potentials are considered: (i) asymmetric potentials with degenerate minima, (ii) the periodic cosine potential, (iii) anharmonic oscillators with radial symmetry, and (iv) a specific potential which bears an analogy with the Fokker-Planck equation. The latter potential has the peculiar property that the perturbation series for the ground-state energy vanishes to all orders and is thus formally convergent (the ground-state energy, however, is nonzero and positive). For the potentials (ii), (iii), and (iv), we calculate the perturbative B-function as well as the instanton A-function to fourth order in g. We also consider the double-well potential in detail, and present some higher-order analytic as well as numerical calculations to verify explicitly the related conjectures up to the order of three instantons. Strategies analogous to those outlined here could result in new conjectures for problems where our present understanding is more limited.

id: quant-ph/0501138
title: Self-induced decoherence approach: Strong limitations on its validity in a simple spin bath model and on its general physical relevance
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012109 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501138
abstract: The "self-induced decoherence" (SID) approach suggests that (1) the expectation value of any observable becomes diagonal in the eigenstates of the total Hamiltonian for systems endowed with a continuous energy spectrum, and (2), that this process can be interpreted as decoherence. We evaluate the first claim in the context of a simple spin bath model. We find that even for large environments, corresponding to an approximately continuous energy spectrum, diagonalization of the expectation value of random observables does in general not occur. We explain this result and conjecture that SID is likely to fail also in other systems composed of discrete subsystems. Regarding the second claim, we emphasize that SID does not describe a physically meaningful decoherence process for individual measurements, but only involves destructive interference that occurs collectively within an ensemble of presupposed "values" of measurements. This leads us to question the relevance of SID for treating observed decoherence effects.

id: quant-ph/0501139
title: New method to simulate quantum interference using deterministic processes and application to event-based simulation of quantum computation
authors: H. De Raedt, K. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. (in press) this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501139
abstract: We demonstrate that networks of locally connected processing units with a primitive learning capability exhibit behavior that is usually only attributed to quantum systems. We describe networks that simulate single-photon beam-splitter and Mach-Zehnder interferometer experiments on a causal, event-by-event basis and demonstrate that the simulation results are in excellent agreement with quantum theory. We also show that this approach can be generalized to simulate universal quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0501140
title: Simulation of Quantum Computation: A deterministic event-based approach
authors: K. Michielsen, K. De Raedt, H. De Raedt
comments: J. Comp. Theor. Nanoscience (in press); this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501140
abstract: We demonstrate that locally connected networks of machines that have primitive learning capabilities can be used to perform a deterministic, event-based simulation of quantum computation. We present simulation results for basic quantum operations such as the Hadamard and the controlled-NOT gate, and for seven-qubit quantum networks that implement Shor's numbering factoring algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0501141
title: Event-based simulation of single-photon beam splitters and Mach-Zehnder interferometers
authors: H. De Raedt, K. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: EuroPhys. Lett. (in press); this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501141
abstract: We demonstrate that networks of locally connected processing units with a primitive learning capability exhibit behavior that is usually only attributed to quantum systems. We describe networks that simulate single-photon beam-splitter and Mach-Zehnder interferometer experiments on a causal, event-by-event basis and demonstrate that the simulation results are in excellent agreement with quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0501142
title: On Randomized and Quantum Query Complexities
authors: Gatis Midrijanis
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501142
abstract: We study randomized and quantum query (a.k.a. decision tree) complexity for all total Boolean functions, with emphasis to derandomization and dequantization (removing quantumness from algorithms). Firstly, we show that $D(f) = O(Q_1(f)^3)$ for any total function $f$, where $D(f)$ is the minimal number of queries made by a deterministic query algorithm and $Q_1(f)$ is the number of queries made by any quantum query algorithm (decision tree analog in quantum case) with one-sided constant error; both algorithms compute function $f$. Secondly, we show that for all total Boolean functions $f$ holds $R_0(f)=O(R_2(f)^2 \log N)$, where $R_0(f)$ and $R_2(f)$ are randomized zero-sided (a.k.a Las Vegas) and two-sided (a.k.a. Monte Carlo) error query complexities.

id: quant-ph/0501143
title: Comment on "Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution"
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: The "Note-added" part is revised to contain the main scientific contents of quant-ph/0503021
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501143
abstract: The main claim by H.K. Lo et al that they have for the first time made the decoy-state method efficiently work in practice is inappropriate. We show that, prior to our work, actually (and obviously) none of proposals raised by H.K. Lo et al can really work in practice. Their main protocol requires infinite number of different coherent states which is in principle impossible for any set-up. Their idea of using very weak coherent state as decoy state doesn't work either by our detailed analysis. The idea implicitly requires an unreasonablly large number of pulses which needs at least 14 days to produce, if they want to do QKD over a distance of 120-130km.

id: quant-ph/0501144
title: Continuous-Variable Spatial Entanglement for Bright Optical Beams
authors: Magnus T.L. Hsu, Warwick P. Bowen, Nicolas Treps, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A 72 013802 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501144
abstract: A light beam is said to be position squeezed if its position can be determined to an accuracy beyond the standard quantum limit. We identify the position and momentum observables for bright optical beams and show that position and momentum entanglement can be generated by interfering two position, or momentum, squeezed beams on a beam splitter. The position and momentum measurements of these beams can be performed using a homodyne detector with local oscillator of an appropriate transverse beam profile. We compare this form of spatial entanglement with split detection-based spatial entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0501145
title: An elementary formula for entanglement entropies of fermionic systems
authors: Pter Lvay, Szilvia Nagy, Jnos Pipek
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physical Review A72, 022302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501145
abstract: An elementary formula for the von Neumann and Renyi entropies describing quantum correlations in two-fermionic systems having four single particle states is presented. An interesting geometric structure of fermionic entanglement is revealed. A connection with the generalized Pauli principle is established.

id: quant-ph/0501146
title: Thermal entanglement of bosonic modes
authors: M. Asoudeh
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, 1 figure, typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501146
abstract: We study the change of entanglement under general linear transformation of modes in a bosonic system and determine the conditions under which entanglement can be generated under such transformation. As an example we consider the thermal entanglement between the vibrational modes of two coupled oscillators and determine the temperature above which quantum correlations are destroyed by thermal fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0501147
title: Surface-Electrode Architecture for Ion-Trap Quantum Information Processing
authors: J. Chiaverini, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, D. Leibfried, R. Ozeri, D. J. Wineland
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, LaTeX (uses epsfig, qic.sty), updated and added content and references, fixed typos, to appear in Quant. Inf. Comput., Vol. 5, No. 6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501147
abstract: We investigate a surface-mounted electrode geometry for miniature linear radio frequency Paul ion traps. The electrodes reside in a single plane on a substrate, and the pseudopotential minimum of the trap is located above the substrate at a distance on order of the electrodes' lateral extent or separation. This architecture provides the possibility to apply standard microfabrication principles to the construction of multiplexed ion traps, which may be of particular importance in light of recent proposals for large-scale quantum computation based on individual trapped ions.

id: quant-ph/0501148
title: Heuristic explanation of quantum interference experiments
authors: Wang Guowen
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501148
abstract: A particle is described as a non-spreading wave packet satisfying a linear equation within the framework of special relativity. Young's and other interference experiments are explained with a hypothesis that there is a coupling interaction between the peaked and non-peaked pieces of the wave packet. This explanation of the interference experiments provides a realistic interpretation of quantum mechanics. The interpretation implies that there is physical reality of particles and no wave function collapse. It also implies that neither classical mechanics nor current quantum mechanics is a complete theory for describing physical reality and the Bell inequalities are not the proper touchstones for reality and locality. The problems of the boundary between the macro-world and micro-world and the de-coherence in the transition region (meso-world) between the two are discussed. The present interpretation of quantum mechanics is consistent with the physical aspects of the Copenhagen interpretation, such as, the superposition principle, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and Born's probability interpretation, but does not favor its philosophical aspects, such as, non-reality, non-objectivity, non-causality and the complementary principle.

id: quant-ph/0501149
title: Atomic spin decoherence near conducting and superconducting films
authors: Stefan Scheel, Per-Kristian Rekdal, Peter L. Knight, Edward A. Hinds
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, typeset using RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501149
abstract: We derive scaling laws for the spin decoherence of neutral atoms trapped near conducting and superconducting plane surfaces. A new result for thin films sheds light on the measurement of Y.J. Lin, I. Teper, C. Chin, and V. Vuleti\'{c} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{92}, 050404 (2004)]. Our calculation is based on a quantum-theoretical treatment of electromagnetic radiation near metallic bodies [P.K. Rekdal, S. Scheel, P.L. Knight, and E.A. Hinds, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{70}, 013811 (2004)]. We show that there is a critical atom-surface distance that maximizes the spin relaxation rate and we show how this depends on the skin depth and thickness of the metal surface. In the light of this impedance-matching effect we discuss the spin relaxation to be expected above a thin superconducting niobium layer.

id: quant-ph/0501150
title: Linear-algebraic lambda-calculus
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Gilles Dowek
comments: LaTeX, 23 pages, 10 figures and the LINEAL language interpreter/simulator file (see "other formats"). Also available at this http URL . See the more recent arXiv:quant-ph/0612199
journal: Quantum Programming Languages 2004, satellite of LICS, Turku Centre for Computer Science General Publication, Vol. 33, (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501150
abstract: With a view towards models of quantum computation and/or the interpretation of linear logic, we define a functional language where all functions are linear operators by construction. A small step operational semantic (and hence an interpreter/simulator) is provided for this language in the form of a term rewrite system. The linear-algebraic lambda-calculus hereby constructed is linear in a different (yet related) sense to that, say, of the linear lambda-calculus. These various notions of linearity are discussed in the context of quantum programming languages. KEYWORDS: quantum lambda-calculus, linear lambda-calculus, $\lambda$-calculus, quantum logics.

id: quant-ph/0501151
title: Structuring quantum effects: superoperators as arrows
authors: J. K. Vizzotto, T. Altenkirch, A. Sabry
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501151
abstract: We show that the model of quantum computation based on density matrices and superoperators can be decomposed in a pure classical (functional) part and an effectful part modeling probabilities and measurement. The effectful part can be modeled using a generalization of monads called arrows. We express the resulting executable model of quantum computing in the programming language Haskell using its special syntax for arrow computations. The embedding in Haskell is however not perfect: a faithful model of quantum computing requires type capabilities which are not directly expressible in Haskell.

id: quant-ph/0501152
title: A generalized skew information and uncertainty relation
authors: Kenjiro Yanagi, Shigeru Furuichi, Ken Kuriyama
comments: to appear in IEEE TIT
journal: IEEE Trans. on Information Theory,Vol.51(2005),pp.4401-4404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501152
abstract: A generalized skew information is defined and a generalized uncertainty relation is established with the help of a trace inequality which was recently proven by J.I.Fujii. In addition, we prove the trace inequality conjectured by S.Luo and Z.Zhang. Finally we point out that Theorem 1 in {\it S.Luo and Q.Zhang, IEEE Trans.IT, Vol.50, pp.1778-1782 (2004)} is incorrect in general, by giving a simple counter-example.

id: quant-ph/0501153
title: A model of deterministic detector with dynamical decoherence
authors: Jae Weon Lee, Dmitri V. Averin, Giuliano Benenti, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 9 pages, 11 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501153
abstract: We discuss a deterministic model of detector coupled to a two-level system (a qubit). The detector is a quasi-classical object whose dynamics is described by the kicked rotator Hamiltonian. We show that in the regime of quantum chaos the detector acts as a chaotic bath and induces decoherence of the qubit. We discuss the dephasing and relaxation rates and demonstrate that several features of Ohmic baths can be reproduced by our fully deterministic model. Moreover, we show that, for strong enough qubit-detector coupling, the dephasing rate is given by the rate of exponential instability of the detector's dynamics, that is, by the Lyapunov exponent of classical motion. Finally, we discuss the measurement in the regimes of strong and weak qubit-detector coupling. For the case of strong coupling the detector performs a measurement of the up/down state of the qubit. In the case of weak coupling, due to chaos, the dynamical evolution of the detector is strongly sensitive to the state of the qubit. However, in this case it is unclear how to extract a signal from any measurement with a coarse-graining in the phase space on a size much larger than the Planck cell.

id: quant-ph/0501154
title: Decoherence-free creation of atom-atom entanglement in cavity via fractional adiabatic passage
authors: Mahdi Amniat-Talab, Stephane Guerin, Hans-Rudolf Jauslin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev
journal: Phys. Rev. A., 72, 012339(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501154
abstract: We propose a robust and decoherence insensitive scheme to generate controllable entangled states of two three-level atoms interacting with an optical cavity and a laser beam. Losses due to atomic spontaneous transitions and to cavity decay are efficiently suppressed by employing fractional adiabatic passage and appropriately designed atom-field couplings. In this scheme the two atoms traverse the cavity-mode and the laser beam in opposite directions as opposed to other entanglement schemes in which the atoms are required to have fixed locations inside a cavity. We also show that the coherence of a traveling atom can be transferred to the other one without populating the cavity-mode.

id: quant-ph/0501155
title: Boson Normal Ordering via Substitutions and Sheffer-type Polynomials
authors: P Blasiak, A Horzela, K A Penson, G H E Duchamp, A I Solomon
comments: 10 pages, 24 references
journal: Phys. Lett. A 338, 108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501155
abstract: We solve the boson normal ordering problem for (q(a*)a + v(a*))^n with arbitrary functions q and v and integer n, where a and a* are boson annihilation and creation operators, satisfying [a,a*]=1. This leads to exponential operators generalizing the shift operator and we show that their action can be expressed in terms of substitutions. Our solution is naturally related through the coherent state representation to the exponential generating functions of Sheffer-type polynomials. This in turn opens a vast arena of combinatorial methodology which is applied to boson normal ordering and illustrated by a few examples.

id: quant-ph/0501156
title: The Casimir zero-point radiation pressure
authors: Yoseph Imry
comments: 4 2-column pages, LATEX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080404 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501156
abstract: We analyze some consequences of the Casimir-type zero-point radiation pressure. These include macroscopic "vacuum" forces on a metallic layer in-between a dielectric medium and an inert ($\epsilon (\omega) = 1$) one. Ways to control the sign of these forces, based on dielectric properties of the media, are thus suggested. Finally, the large positive Casimir pressure, due to surface plasmons on thin metallic layers, is evaluated and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0501157
title: Quantum Weakest Preconditions
authors: Ellie D'Hondt, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures. Substantial rewrite based on referee reports
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501157
abstract: We develop a notion of predicate transformer and, in particular, the weakest precondition, appropriate for quantum computation. We show that there is a Stone-type duality between the usual state-transformer semantics and the weakest precondition semantics. Rather than trying to reduce quantum computation to probabilistic programming we develop a notion that is directly taken from concepts used in quantum computation. The proof that weakest preconditions exist for completely positive maps follows immediately from the Kraus representation theorem. As an example we give the semantics of Selinger's language in terms of our weakest preconditions. We also cover some specific situations and exhibit an interesting link with stabilizers.

id: quant-ph/0501158
title: Scheme to measure squeezing and phase properties of a harmonic oscillator
authors: G.T. Rubin-Linares, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: Presented at XI Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, Trieste, Italy, 18-20 July, 2004
journal: J. of Mod. Optics 52, 1751-1756 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501158
abstract: We propose a simple scheme to measure squeezing and phase properties of a harmonic oscillator. We treat in particular the case of a the field, but the scheme may be easily realized in ion traps. It is based on integral transforms of measured atomic properties as atoms exit a cavity. We show that by measuring atomic polarizations it is possible, after a given integration, to measure several properties of the field.

id: quant-ph/0501159
title: Implausible Consequences of Superstrong Nonlocality
authors: Wim van Dam
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501159
abstract: This Letter looks at the consequences of so-called 'superstrong nonlocal correlations', which are hypothetical violations of Bell/CHSH inequalities that are stronger than quantum mechanics allows, yet weak enough to prohibit faster-than-light communication. It is shown that the existence of maximally superstrong correlated bits implies that all distributed computations can be performed with a trivial amount of communication, i.e. with one bit. If one believes that Nature does not allow such a computational 'free lunch', then the result in the Letter gives a reason why superstrong correlation are indeed not possible.

id: quant-ph/0501160
title: Continuous operation of a one-way quantum key distribution system over installed telecom fibre
authors: Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 13, 660-665(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501160
abstract: We demonstrate a robust, compact and automated quantum key distribution system, based upon a one-way Mach-Zender interferometer, which is actively compensated for temporal drifts in the photon phase and polarization. The system gives a superior performance to passive compensation schemes with an average quantum bit error rate of 0.87% and a duty cycle of 99.6% for a continuous quantum key distribution session of 19 hours over a 20.3km installed telecom fibre. The results suggest that actively compensated QKD systems are suitable for practical applications.

id: quant-ph/0501161
title: Histories Approach to Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 34 pages, lecture notes (Centre for Learning, Vardanahalli, Jan 3-7,2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501161
abstract: These lecture notes cover the important developments in histories approach to quantum mechanics with overall content and emphasis somewhat different from other reviews and books on the subject.The idea of Houtappel, Van Dam and Wigner of employing objects based on primitive concepts of physical theories is discussed in some detail and the fact that histories are such objects is emphasized. Application of histories formalism to the problem of understanding the quasiclassical domain is treated in some detail. Other topics discussed include generalized histories-based quantum mechanics and its application to the quantum mechanics of space-time,generalization of the notion of time sequences employing partial semigroups,quasitemporal structures, history projection operator (HPO) formalism, the algebraic scheme of Isham and Linden, an axiomatic scheme for quasitemporal histories-based theories and symmetries and conservation laws in histories-based theories.

id: quant-ph/0501162
title: Bell's Inequality, Random Sequence, and Quantum Key Distribution
authors: W.-Y. Hwang
comments: English corrected, 3 pages, RevTex
journal: Physical Review A 71, 052329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501162
abstract: The Ekert 91 quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol appears to be secure whatever devices legitimate users adopt for the protocol, as long as the devices give a result that violates Bell's inequality. However, this is not the case if they ignore non-detection events because Eve can make use of the detection-loophole, as Larrson showed. We show that even when legitimate users take into account non-detection events Eve can successfully eavesdrop if the QKD system has been appropriately designed by the manufacturer. A loophole utilized here is that of `free-choice' (or `real randomness'). Local QKD devices with pseudo-random sequence generator installed in them can apparently violate Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0501163
title: Wigner function and Schroedinger equation in phase space representation
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Krzysztof Mlodawski
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 052104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501163
abstract: We discuss a family of quasi-distributions (s-ordered Wigner functions of Agarwal and Wolf) and its connection to the so called phase space representation of the Schroedinger equation. It turns out that although Wigner functions satisfy the Schroedinger equation in phase space they have completely different interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0501164
title: Experimental observation of transient velocity-selective coherent population trapping in one dimension
authors: Frank Vewinger, Frank Zimmer
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501164
abstract: We report the observation of transient velocity-selective coherent population trapping (VSCPT) in a beam of metastable neon atoms. The atomic momentum distribution resulting from the interaction with counterpropagating sigma_+ and sigma_- radiation which couples a J_g=2 <-> J_e=1 transition is measured via the transversal beam profile. This transition exhibits a stable VSCPT dark state formed by the two |J=2,m=+/-1> states, and a metastable dark state containing the |J=2,m=+/-2> and |J=2,m=0> states. The dynamics of the formation and decay of stable and metastable dark states is studied experimentally and numerically and the finite lifetime of the metastable dark state is experimentally observed. We compare the measured distribution with a numerical solution of the master equation.

id: quant-ph/0501165
title: Tunnelling of condensate magnetization in a double-well potential
authors: ?. E. Mstecapl?o?lu, M. Zhang, L. You
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501165
abstract: We study quantum dynamical properties of a spin-1 atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential. Adopting a mean field theory and single spatial mode approximation, we characterize our model system as two coupled spins. For certain initial states, we find full magnetization oscillations between wells not accompanied by mass (or atom numbers) exchange. We identify dynamic regimes of collective spin variables arising from nonlinear self-interactions that are different from the usual Josephson oscillations. We also discuss magnetization beats and incomplete oscillations of collective spin variables other than the magnetization. Our study points to an alternative approach to observe coherent tunnelling of a condensate through a (spatial) potential barrier.

id: quant-ph/0501166
title: Graph State Preparation and Cluster Computation with Global Addressing of Optical Lattices
authors: Alastair Kay, Jiannis K. Pachos, Charles S. Adams
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501166
abstract: We present a novel way to manipulate ultra-cold atoms where four atomic levels are trapped by appropriately tuned optical lattices. When employed to perform quantum computation via global control, this unique structure dramatically reduces the number of steps involved in the control procedures, either for the standard, network, model, or for one-way quantum computation. The use of a far-blue detuned lattice and a magnetically insensitive computational basis makes the scheme robust against decoherence. The present scheme is a promising candidate for experimental implementation of quantum computation and for graph state preparation in one, two or three spatial dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0501167
title: Feynman's Path Integrals and Bohm's Particle Paths
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 4 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 shortened a bit
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 26 (2005) L11-L13
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501167
abstract: Both Bohmian mechanics, a version of quantum mechanics with trajectories, and Feynman's path integral formalism have something to do with particle paths in space and time. The question thus arises how the two ideas relate to each other. In short, the answer is, path integrals provide a re-formulation of Schroedinger's equation, which is half of the defining equations of Bohmian mechanics. I try to give a clear and concise description of the various aspects of the situation.

id: quant-ph/0501168
title: Casimir-Polder interaction of atoms with magnetodielectric bodies
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Ho Trung Dung, Thomas Kampf, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, minor additions and corrections
journal: European Physical Journal D 35 (1), 15 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501168
abstract: A general theory of the Casimir-Polder interaction of single atoms with dispersing and absorbing magnetodielectric bodies is presented, which is based on QED in linear, causal media. Both ground-state and excited atoms are considered. Whereas the Casimir-Polder force acting on a ground-state atom can conveniently be derived from a perturbative calculation of the atom-field coupling energy, an atom in an excited state is subject to transient force components that can only be fully understood by a dynamical treatment based on the body-assisted vacuum Lorentz force. The results show that the Casimir-Polder force can be influenced by the body-induced broadening and shifting of atomic transitions - an effect that is not accounted for within lowest-order perturbation theory. The theory is used to study the Casimir-Polder force of a ground-state atom placed within a magnetodielectric multilayer system, with special emphasis on thick and thin plates as well as a planar cavity consisting of two thick plates. It is shown how the competing attractive and repulsive force components related to the electric and magnetic properties of the medium, respectively, can - for sufficiently strong magnetic properties - lead to the formation of potential walls and wells.

id: quant-ph/0501169
title: Decoherence in Quantum Walks on the Hypercube
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Alexander Russell
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; v2:corrected typos in references; v3:clarified section 2.1; v4:added references, expanded introduction; v5: final journal version
journal: Physical Review A 72, 062304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501169
abstract: We study a natural notion of decoherence on quantum random walks over the hypercube. We prove that in this model there is a decoherence threshold beneath which the essential properties of the hypercubic quantum walk, such as linear mixing times, are preserved. Beyond the threshold, we prove that the walks behave like their classical counterparts.

id: quant-ph/0501170
title: Casimir force acting on bodies in media: Why textbooks are wrong
authors: Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Christian Raabe
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501170
abstract: This is the abstract of an invited contribution to be presented at the 9th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations, ICSSUR '05, Besancon, France, May 2-6, 2005.

id: quant-ph/0501171
title: Deterministic and Efficient Quantum Cryptography Based on Bell's Theorem
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Qiang Zhang, Xiao-Hui Bao, J. Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; published version with a note added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 050302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501171
abstract: We propose a novel double-entanglement-based quantum cryptography protocol that is both efficient and deterministic. The proposal uses photon pairs with entanglement both in polarization and in time degrees of freedom; each measurement in which both of the two communicating parties register a photon can establish one and only one perfect correlation and thus deterministically create a key bit. Eavesdropping can be detected by violation of local realism. A variation of the protocol shows a higher security, similarly to the six-state protocol, under individual attacks. Our scheme allows a robust implementation under current technology.

id: quant-ph/0501172
title: Hawking radiation from Trojan states in muonic Hydrogen in strong laser field
authors: Matt Kalinski
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501172
abstract: We show that the Unruh-Davies effect is measurable from Trojan wavepackets in muonic Hydrogen as the acceleration on the first muonic Bohr orbit reaches 10^25 of the earth acceleration. It is the biggest acceleration achievable in the laboratory environment which have been ever predicted for the cyclotronic configuration. We calculate the ratio between the power of Larmor radiation and the power of Hawking radiation. The Hawking radiation is measurable even for quantum numbers of the muon due to suppression of spontaneous emission in Trojan Hydrogen.

id: quant-ph/0501173
title: Quantifying decoherence in continuous variable systems
authors: A. Serafini, M.G.A. Paris, F. Illuminati, S. De Siena
comments: Review article; 36 pages, 19 figures; typos corrected, references added
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, R19 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501173
abstract: We present a detailed report on the decoherence of quantum states of continuous variable systems under the action of a quantum optical master equation resulting from the interaction with general Gaussian uncorrelated environments. The rate of decoherence is quantified by relating it to the decay rates of various, complementary measures of the quantum nature of a state, such as the purity, some nonclassicality indicators in phase space and, for two-mode states, entanglement measures and total correlations between the modes. Different sets of physically relevant initial configurations are considered, including one- and two-mode Gaussian states, number states, and coherent superpositions. Our analysis shows that, generally, the use of initially squeezed configurations does not help to preserve the coherence of Gaussian states, whereas it can be effective in protecting coherent superpositions of both number states and Gaussian wave packets.

id: quant-ph/0501174
title: Unambiguous discrimination of special sets of multipartite states using local measurements and classical communication
authors: Jihane Mimih, Mark Hillery
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 71, 012329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501174
abstract: We initially consider a quantum system consisting of two qubits, which can be in one of two nonorthogonal states, \Psi_0 or \Psi_1. We distribute the qubits to two parties, Alice and Bob. They each measure their qubit and then compare their measurement results to determine which state they were sent. This procedure is error-free, which implies that it must sometimes fail. In addition, no quantum memory is required; it is not necessary to store one of the qubits until the result of the measurement on the other is known. We consider the cases in which, should failure occur, both parties receive a failure signal or only one does. In the latter case, if the states share the same Schmidt basis, the states can be discriminated with the same failure probability as would be obtained if the two qubits were measured together. This scheme is sufficiently simple that it can be generalized to multipartite qubit and qudit states. Applications to quantum secret sharing are discussed. Finally, we present an optical scheme to experimenatlly realize the protocol in the case of two qubits.

id: quant-ph/0501175
title: Security improvement of using modified coherent state for quantum cryptography
authors: Y.J. Lu, Luobei Zhu, Z.Y. Ou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501175
abstract: Weak coherent states as a photon source for quantum cryptography have limit in secure data rate and transmission distance because of the presence of multi-photon events and loss in transmission line. Two-photon events in a coherent state can be taken out by a two-photon interference scheme. We investigate the security issue of utilizing this modified coherent state in quantum cryptography. A 4 dB improvement in secure data rate or a nearly two-fold increase in transmission distance over the coherent state are found. With a recently proposed and improved encoding strategy, further improvement is possible.

id: quant-ph/0501176
title: Simulations of Quantum Turing Machines by Quantum Multi-Stack Machines
authors: Daowen Qiu
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501176
abstract: As was well known, in classical computation, Turing machines, circuits, multi-stack machines, and multi-counter machines are equivalent, that is, they can simulate each other in polynomial time. In quantum computation, Yao [11] first proved that for any quantum Turing machines $M$, there exists quantum Boolean circuit $(n,t)$-simulating $M$, where $n$ denotes the length of input strings, and $t$ is the number of move steps before machine stopping. However, the simulations of quantum Turing machines by quantum multi-stack machines and quantum multi-counter machines have not been considered, and quantum multi-stack machines have not been established, either. Though quantum counter machines were dealt with by Kravtsev [6] and Yamasaki {\it et al.} [10], in which the machines count with $0,\pm 1$ only, we sense that it is difficult to simulate quantum Turing machines in terms of this fashion of quantum computing devices, and we therefore prove that the quantum multi-counter machines allowed to count with $0,\pm 1,\pm 2,...,\pm n$ for some $n>1$ can efficiently simulate quantum Turing machines. Therefore, our mail goals are to establish quantum multi-stack machines and quantum multi-counter machines with counts $0,\pm 1,\pm 2,...,\pm n$ and $n>1$, and particularly to simulate quantum Turing machines by these quantum computing devices.

id: quant-ph/0501177
title: For Distinguishing Conjugate Hidden Subgroups, the Pretty Good Measurement is as Good as it Gets
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: proved additional conditions for optimality due to Yuen, Kennedy and Max; also bounded the probability of success in the one-register and multiregister cases
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501177
abstract: Recently Bacon, Childs and van Dam showed that the ``pretty good measurement'' (PGM) is optimal for the Hidden Subgroup Problem on the dihedral group D_n in the case where the hidden subgroup is chosen uniformly from the n involutions. We show that, for any group and any subgroup H, the PGM is the optimal one-register experiment in the case where the hidden subgroup is a uniformly random conjugate of H. We go on to show that when H forms a Gel'fand pair with its parent group, the PGM is the optimal measurement for any number of registers. In both cases we bound the probability that the optimal measurement succeeds. This generalizes the case of the dihedral group, and includes a number of other examples of interest.

id: quant-ph/0501178
title: A nonlinear model dynamics for closed-system, constrained, maximal-entropy-generation relaxation by energy redistribution
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: 11 pages, 7 eps figures (psfrag use removed), uses subeqn, minor revisions, accepted for Physical Review E
journal: Physical Review E, Vol.73, 026113 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501178
abstract: We discuss a nonlinear model for the relaxation by energy redistribution within an isolated, closed system composed of non-interacting identical particles with energy levels e_i with i=1,2,...,N. The time-dependent occupation probabilities p_i(t) are assumed to obey the nonlinear rate equations tau dp_i/dt=-p_i ln p_i+ alpha(t)p_i-beta(t)e_ip_i where alpha(t) and beta(t) are functionals of the p_i(t)'s that maintain invariant the mean energy E=sum_i e_ip_i(t) and the normalization condition 1=sum_i p_i(t). The entropy S(t)=-k sum_i p_i(t) ln p_i(t) is a non-decreasing function of time until the initially nonzero occupation probabilities reach a Boltzmann-like canonical distribution over the occupied energy eigenstates. Initially zero occupation probabilities, instead, remain zero at all times. The solutions p_i(t) of the rate equations are unique and well-defined for arbitrary initial conditions p_i(0) and for all times. Existence and uniqueness both forward and backward in time allows the reconstruction of the primordial lowest entropy state. The time evolution is at all times along the local direction of steepest entropy ascent or, equivalently, of maximal entropy generation. These rate equations have the same mathematical structure and basic features of the nonlinear dynamical equation proposed in a series of papers ended with G.P.Beretta, Found.Phys., 17, 365 (1987) and recently rediscovered in S. Gheorghiu-Svirschevski, Phys.Rev.A, 63, 022105 and 054102 (2001). Numerical results illustrate the features of the dynamics and the differences with the rate equations recently considered for the same problem in M.Lemanska and Z.Jaeger, Physica D, 170, 72 (2002).

id: quant-ph/0501179
title: Comments on "Evidence for Quantized Displacement in Macroscopic Nanomechanical Oscillators"
authors: A. Kwang-Hua Chu
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501179
abstract: We make comments on Gaidarzhy {\it et al.}'s [{\it Phys. Rev. Lett.} 94, 030402 (2005)] letter.

id: quant-ph/0501180
title: Measurement-Based Teleportation Along Quantum Spin Chains
authors: J. P. Barjaktarevic, J. Links, G.J. Milburn, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, presented as posters at "Quantum entanglement in physical and information sciences", Pisa, 2004 and at the AIP Congress, Canberra, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501180
abstract: We consider teleportation of an arbitrary spin-1/2 target quantum state along the ground state of a quantum spin chain. We present a decomposition of the Hilbert space of the many body quantum state into 4 vector spaces. Within each of these subspaces, it is possible to take any superposition of states, and use projective measurements to perform unit fidelity teleportation. Any such superposition is necessarily a spin liquid state. We also show that all total spin-0 quantum states belong in the same space, so that it is possible to perform unit fidelity teleportation over any one-dimensional spin-0 many body quantum state. We generalise to $n$-Bell states, and present some general bounds on fidelity of teleportation given a general state of a quantum spin chain.

id: quant-ph/0501181
title: The non dissipative damping of the Rabi oscillations as a "which-path" information
authors: M. Tumminello, A. Vaglica, G. Vetri
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett., 65 (6), pp. 785-790 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501181
abstract: Rabi oscillations may be viewed as an interference phenomenon due to a coherent superposition of different quantum paths, like in the Young's two-slit experiment. The inclusion of the atomic external variables causes a non dissipative damping of the Rabi oscillations. More generally, the atomic translational dynamics induces damping in the correlation functions which describe non classical behaviors of the field and internal atomic variables, leading to the separability of these two subsystems. We discuss on the possibility of interpreting this intrinsic decoherence as a "which-way" information effect and we apply to this case a quantitative analysis of the complementarity relation as introduced by Englert [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{77}, 2154 (1996)].

id: quant-ph/0501182
title: The Quantum-Classical Comparison of the Arrival Time Distribution through the Probability Current
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, A. S. Majumdar, Alok Kumar Pan
comments: Latex, 10 pages, 3 eps figures; analysis carried out with a more general wave function; comments and references added
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 19, 723 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501182
abstract: We consider the arrival time distribution defined through the quantum probability current for a Gaussian wave packet representing free particles in quantum mechanics in order to explore the issue of the classical limit of arrival time. We formulate the classical analogue of the arrival time distribution for an ensemble of free particles represented by a phase space distribution function evolving under the classical Liouville's equation. The classical probability current so constructed matches with the quantum probability current in the limit of minimum uncertainty. Further, it is possible to show in general that smooth transitions from the quantum mechanical probability current and the mean arrival time to their respective classical values are obtained in the limit of large mass of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0501183
title: Topological spin transport of relativistic electron
authors: K.Yu. Bliokh
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys.Lett. 72 (2005) 7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501183
abstract: We derive the semiclassical (with accuracy of $\hbar$) motion equation for relativistic electron, which follow from the Dirac equation. We determine both the evolution equation for electron polarization, which takes the non-Abelian Berry phase into account, and Hamiltonian equations for trajectories of the particle (wave packet) center in the phase space. The equations have covariant form with respect to U(2) gauge transformations and contain topological spin terms that are connected to the Berry gauge field arising during the diagonalization of the Dirac equation. The trajectory equations obtained are substantially different from the traditional ones (for instance, those that follow from the Pauli Hamiltonian) and correspond to contemporary ideas of topological spin transport of particles.

id: quant-ph/0501184
title: Loss Tolerant Optical Qubits
authors: T. C. Ralph, A. J. F. Hayes, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501184
abstract: We present a linear optics quantum computation scheme that employs a new encoding approach that incrementally adds qubits and is tolerant to photon loss errors. The scheme employs a circuit model but uses techniques from cluster state computation and achieves comparable resource usage. To illustrate our techniques we describe a quantum memory which is fault tolerant to photon loss.

id: quant-ph/0501185
title: Considering relativistic symmetry as the first principle of quantum mechanics
authors: T. Kawahara
comments: LaTeX2e, 18 pages, no figure; The subsection Self-energy estimation was improved; Accepted for publication in EJTP
journal: EJTP 4, No. 15 (2007) 37-52
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0501185
abstract: On the basis of the relativistic symmetry of Minkowski space, we derive a Lorentz invariant equation for a spread electron. This equation slightly differs from the Dirac equation and includes additional terms originating from the spread of an electron. Further, we calculate the anomalous magnetic moment based on these terms. These calculations do not include any divergence; therefore, renormalization procedures are unnecessary. In addition, the relativistic symmetry existing among coordinate systems will provide a new prospect for the foundations of quantum mechanics like the measurement process.

id: cond-mat/0501023
title: High-order Harmonic Generation and Dynamic Localization in a driven two-level system, a non-perturbative solution using the Floquet-Green formalism
authors: D.F. Martinez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501023
abstract: We apply the Floquet-Green operator formalism to the case of a harmonically-driven two-level system. We derive exact expressions for the quasi-energies and the components of the Floquet eigenstates with the use of continued fractions. We study the avoided crossings structure of the quasi-energies as a function of the strength of the driving field and give an interpretation in terms of resonant multi-photon processes. From the Floquet eigenstates we obtain the time-evolution operator. Using this operator we study Dynamic Localization and High-order Harmonic Generation in the non-perturbative regime.

id: cond-mat/0501080
title: Phase Separation and an upper bound for $$ for Fermi fluids in the Phase Separation and an upper bound for $$ for Fermi fluids in the unitary regime
authors: Thomas D. Cohen
comments: This is the version to be publishd. The notation has been improved to match standard useage. An improved discussion on the implication of the nature of the bound and the physical meaning of the parameter Delta
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.95:120403,2005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501080
abstract: An upper bound is derived for $\Delta$ for a cold dilute fluid of equal amounts of two species of fermion in the unitary regime $k_f a \to \infty$ (where $k_f$ is the Fermi momentum and $a$ the scattering length, and $\Delta$ is a pairing energy: the difference in energy per particle between adding to the system a macroscopic number (but infinitesimal fraction) of particles of one species compared to adding equal numbers of both. The bound is $\delta \leq {5/3} (2 (2 \xi)^{2/5} - (2 \xi))$ where $\xi=\epsilon/\epsilon_{\rm FG}$, $\delta= 2 \Delta/\epsilon_{\rm FG}$; $\epsilon$ is the energy per particle and $\epsilon_{\rm FG}$ is the energy per particle of a noninteracting Fermi gas. If the bound is saturated, then systems with unequal densities of the two species will separate spatially into a superfluid phase with equal numbers of the two species and a normal phase with the excess. If the bound is not saturated then $\Delta$ is the usual superfluid gap. If the superfluid gap exceeds the maximum allowed by the inequality phase separation occurs.

id: cond-mat/0501282
title: Finite-size scaling exponents and entanglement in the two-level BCS model
authors: S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 060304 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501282
abstract: We analyze the finite-size properties of the two-level BCS model. Using the continuous unitary transformation technique, we show that nontrivial scaling exponents arise at the quantum critical point for various observables such as the magnetization or the spin-spin correlation functions. We also discuss the entanglement properties of the ground state through the concurrence which appears to be singular at the transition.

id: cond-mat/0501283
title: Resonant Readout of a Persistent Current Qubit
authors: Janice C. Lee, William D. Oliver, Terry P. Orlando, Karl K. Berggren
comments: 4 pages, 2004 ASC Proceedings
journal: IEEE TRANS APPL SUPERCON 15 (2): 841-844 Part 1 JUN 2005
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501283
abstract: We have implemented a resonant circuit that uses a SQUID as a flux-sensitive Josephson inductor for qubit readout. In contrast to the conventional switching current measurement that generates undesired quasi-particles when the SQUID switches to the voltage state, our approach keeps the readout SQUID biased along the supercurrent branch during the measurement. By incorporating the SQUID inductor in a high-Q resonant circuit, we can distinguish the two flux states of a niobium persistent-current (PC) qubit by observing a shift in the resonant frequency of both the magnitude and the phase spectra. The readout circuit was also characterized in the nonlinear regime to investigate its potential use as a nonlinear amplifier.

id: cond-mat/0501301
title: Dephasing by a nonstationary classical intermittent noise
authors: Josef Schriefl, Maxime Clusel, David Carpentier, Pascal Degiovanni
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501301
abstract: We consider a new phenomenological model for a $1/f^{\mu}$ classical intermittent noise and study its effects on the dephasing of a two-level system. Within this model, the evolution of the relative phase between the $|\pm>$ states is described as a continuous time random walk (CTRW). Using renewal theory, we find exact expressions for the dephasing factor and identify the physically relevant various regimes in terms of the coupling to the noise. In particular, we point out the consequences of the non-stationarity and pronounced non-Gaussian features of this noise, including some new anomalous and aging dephasing scenarii.

id: cond-mat/0501313
title: Possible charge ordered states in BN and BCN nanotubes, and nanoribbons
authors: Kikuo Harigaya
comments: 11 pages; 7 figures
journal: Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 45, No. 9A, 2006, pp. 7237-7239
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501313
abstract: Electronic states in boron-nitride and boron-carbon-nitride nanoribbons with zigzag edges are studied using the extended Hubbard model with nearest neighbor Coulomb interactions. The charge and spin polarized states are considered, and the phase diagram between two states is obtained. Next, the electric capacitance is calculated in order to examine the nano-functionalities of the system. Due to the presence of the strong site energies, the charge polarized state overcomes the spin polarized states, giving the large difference of the phase diagram in comparison with that of graphite system. The electronic structures are always like of semiconductors. The capacitance calculated for the charge polarized state with the realistic values of the Coulomb interactions is inversely proportional to the ribbon width, owing to the presence of the charge excitation energy gap.

id: cond-mat/0501358
title: Effect of zero energy bound states on macroscopic quantum tunneling in high-Tc superconductor junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Satoshi Kashiwaya, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, comment and reference about recent experiment added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72 (2005) 052506
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501358
abstract: The macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in the current biased high-Tc superconductor Josephson junctions and the effect of the zero energy bound states (ZES) on the MQT are theoretically investigated. We obtained the analytical formula of the MQT rate and showed that the presence of the ZES at the normal/superconductor interface leads to a strong Ohmic quasiparticle dissipation. Therefore, the MQT rate is noticeably inhibited in compared with the c-axis junctions in which the ZES are completely absent.

id: cond-mat/0501372
title: Exact location of the multicritical point for finite-dimensional spin glasses: A conjecture
authors: Koujin Takeda, Tomohiro Sasamoto, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 3751-3774
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501372
abstract: We present a conjecture on the exact location of the multicritical point in the phase diagram of spin glass models in finite dimensions. By generalizing our previous work, we combine duality and gauge symmetry for replicated random systems to derive formulas which make it possible to understand all the relevant available numerical results in a unified way. The method applies to non-self-dual lattices as well as to self dual cases, in the former case of which we derive a relation for a pair of values of multicritical points for mutually dual lattices. The examples include the +-J and Gaussian Ising spin glasses on the square, hexagonal and triangular lattices, the Potts and Z_q models with chiral randomness on these lattices, and the three-dimensional +-J Ising spin glass and the random plaquette gauge model.

id: cond-mat/0501437
title: Analysis and Geometric Optimization of Single Electron Transistors for Read-Out in Solid-State Quantum Computing
authors: Vincent I. Conrad, Andrew D. Greentree, David N. Jamieson, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 13 pages, 17 figures
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, 2, 214 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501437
abstract: The single electron transistor (SET) offers unparalled opportunities as a nano-scale electrometer, capable of measuring sub-electron charge variations. SETs have been proposed for read-out schema in solid-state quantum computing where quantum information processing outcomes depend on the location of a single electron on nearby quantum dots. In this paper we investigate various geometries of a SET in order to maximize the device's sensitivity to charge transfer between quantum dots. Through the use of finite element modeling we model the materials and geometries of an Al/Al2O3 SET measuring the state of quantum dots in the Si substrate beneath. The investigation is motivated by the quest to build a scalable quantum computer, though the methodology used is primarily that of circuit theory. As such we provide useful techniques for any electronic device operating at the classical/quantum interface.

id: cond-mat/0501493
title: Efficient evaluation of partition functions of frustrated and inhomogeneous spin systems
authors: V. Murg, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 057206 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501493
abstract: We present a numerical method to evaluate partition functions and associated correlation functions of inhomogeneous 2--D classical spin systems and 1--D quantum spin systems. The method is scalable and has a controlled error. We illustrate the algorithm by calculating the finite--temperature properties of bosonic particles in 1--D optical lattices, as realized in current experiments.

id: cond-mat/0501503
title: Quantum theory of spectral diffusion induced electron spin decoherence
authors: W. M. Witzel, Rogerio de Sousa, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 161306(R) (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501503
abstract: A quantum cluster expansion method is developed for the problem of localized electron spin decoherence due to dipolar fluctuations of lattice nuclear spins. At the lowest order it provides a microscopic explanation for the Lorentzian diffusion of Hahn echoes without resorting to any phenomenological Markovian assumption. Our numerical results show remarkable agreement with recent electron spin echo experiments in phosphorus doped silicon.

id: cond-mat/0501612
title: Electron localization and entanglement in a two-electron quantum dot
authors: Constantine Yannouleas, Uzi Landman
comments: Parts of the text were rewritten in order to enhance the clarity of presentation. Figure 2 was revised. REVTEX4. 5 pages with 2 figures (one in color) and one table. For related papers, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501612
abstract: Calculations for two electrons in an elliptic quantum dot, using symmetry breaking at the unrestricted Hartree-Fock level and subsequent restoration of the broken parity via projection techniques, show that the electrons can localize and form a molecular dimer, described by a Heitler-London-type wave function. The calculated singlet-triplet splitting (J) as a function of the magnetic field (B) agrees with cotunneling measurements. Knowledge of the dot shape and of J(B) allows determination of the degree of entanglement in the ground state of the dot, which is of interest for the implementation of quantum logic gates. The theoretical value agrees with the experimental estimates.

id: cond-mat/0501641
title: Four-body problem and BEC-BCS crossover in a quasi-one-dimensional cold fermion gas
authors: C. Mora, A. Komnik, R. Egger, A.O. Gogolin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published in Phys. Rev. Lett., breathing mode calculation added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080403 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501641
abstract: The four-body problem for an interacting two-species Fermi gas is solved analytically in a confined quasi-one-dimensional geometry, where the two-body atom-atom scattering length $a_{aa}$ displays a confinement-induced resonance. We compute the dimer-dimer scattering length $a_{dd}$, and show that this quantity completely determines the many-body solution of the associated BEC-BCS crossover phenomenon in terms of bosonic dimers.

id: cond-mat/0501648
title: Quantum many particle systems in ring-shaped optical lattices
authors: Luigi Amico, Andreas Osterloh, Francesco Cataliotti
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. To be published in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 95 (2005) 063201
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0501648
abstract: In the present work we demonstrate how to realize 1d-optical closed lattice experimentally, including a {\it tunable} boundary phase-twist. The latter may induce ``persistent currents'', visible by studing the atoms' momentum distribution. We show how important phenomena in 1d-physics can be studied by physical realization of systems of trapped atoms in ring-shaped optical lattices. A mixture of bosonic and/or fermionic atoms can be loaded into the lattice, realizing a generic quantum system of many interacting particles.

id: cs/0501008
title: Multipartite Secret Correlations and Bound Information
authors: Lluis Masanes, Antonio Acin
comments: 13 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 52, no. 10, pp. 4686-4694 (2006)
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0501008
abstract: We consider the problem of secret key extraction when $n$ honest parties and an eavesdropper share correlated information. We present a family of probability distributions and give the full characterization of its distillation properties. This formalism allows us to design a rich variety of cryptographic scenarios. In particular, we provide examples of multipartite probability distributions containing non-distillable secret correlations, also known as bound information.

id: gr-qc/0501081
title: Stochastic Spacetime and Brownian Motion of Test Particles
authors: L.H. Ford
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. Talk given at the 9th Peyresq workshop, June 2004
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 44 (2005) 1753-1768
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0501081
abstract: The operational meaning of spacetime fluctuations is discussed. Classical spacetime geometry can be viewed as encoding the relations between the motions of test particles in the geometry. By analogy, quantum fluctuations of spacetime geometry can be interpreted in terms of the fluctuations of these motions. Thus one can give meaning to spacetime fluctuations in terms of observables which describe the Brownian motion of test particles. We will first discuss some electromagnetic analogies, where quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field induce Brownian motion of test particles. We next discuss several explicit examples of Brownian motion caused by a fluctuating gravitational field. These examples include lightcone fluctuations, variations in the flight times of photons through the fluctuating geometry, and fluctuations in the expansion parameter given by a Langevin version of the Raychaudhuri equation. The fluctuations in this parameter lead to variations in the luminosity of sources. Other phenomena which can be linked to spacetime fluctuations are spectral line broadening and angular blurring of distant sources.

id: hep-ph/0501268
title: Relativistic Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Z.-F. Li, J. J. Liu, Wolfgang Lucha, W. G. Ma, F. F. Schoberl
comments: 14 pages, extended discussion of results
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 103514
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0501268
abstract: We study the semirelativistic Hamiltonian operator composed of the relativistic kinetic energy and a static harmonic-oscillator potential in three spatial dimensions and construct, for bound states with vanishing orbital angular momentum, its eigenfunctions in compact form, i. e., as power series, with expansion coefficients determined by an explicitly given recurrence relation. The corresponding eigenvalues are fixed by the requirement of normalizability of the solutions.

id: hep-th/0501046
title: Covariant many-fingered time Bohmian interpretation of quantum field theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 7 pages, significantly revised
journal: Phys.Lett.A348:166-171,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501046
abstract: The Bohmian interpretation of the many-fingered time (MFT) Tomonaga-Schwinger formulation of quantum field theory (QFT) describes MFT fields, which provides a covariant Bohmian interpretation of QFT without introducing a preferred foliation of spacetime.

id: hep-th/0501058
title: Entanglement Induced Fluctuations of Cold Bosons
authors: Ram Brustein, Amos Yarom
comments: Replaced with published version. Added calculations, explanations and clarifications, results unchanged
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0807:P07025,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501058
abstract: We show that due to entanglement, quantum fluctuations may differ significantly from statistical fluctuations. We calculate quantum fluctuations of the particle number and of the energy in a sub-volume of a system of bosons in a pure state, and briefly discuss the possibility of measuring them. We find that energy fluctuations have a non-extensive nature.

id: hep-th/0501061
title: Unitary representations of super Lie groups and applications to the classification and multiplet structure of super particles
authors: C. Carmeli, G. Cassinelli, A. Toigo, V.S. Varadarajan
comments: 55 pages LaTeX, some corrections added after comments by Prof. Pierre Deligne
journal: Commun.Math.Phys. 263 (2006) 217-258
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501061
abstract: It is well known that the category of super Lie groups (SLG) is equivalent to the category of super Harish-Chandra pairs (SHCP). Using this equivalence, we define the category of unitary representations (UR's) of a super Lie group. We give an extension of the classical inducing construction and Mackey imprimitivity theorem to this setting. We use our results to classify the irreducible unitary representations of semidirect products of super translation groups by classical Lie groups, in particular of the super Poincar\'e groups in arbitrary dimension. Finally we compare our results with those in the physical literature on the structure and classification of super multiplets.

id: hep-th/0501083
title: Self-adjoint extensions and SUSY breaking in Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: H. Falomir, P. A. G. Pisani
comments: LaTeX. 23 pages and 1 figure (minor changes). Version to appear in the Journal of Physics A: Mat. and Gen
journal: J.Phys.A38:4665-4683,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501083
abstract: We consider the self-adjoint extensions (SAE) of the symmetric supercharges and Hamiltonian for a model of SUSY Quantum Mechanics in $\mathbb{R}^+$ with a singular superpotential. We show that only for two particular SAE, whose domains are scale invariant, the algebra of N=2 SUSY is realized, one with manifest SUSY and the other with spontaneously broken SUSY. Otherwise, only the N=1 SUSY algebra is obtained, with spontaneously broken SUSY and non degenerate energy spectrum.

id: hep-th/0501094
title: The Quantum-Classical Transition: The Fate of the Complex Structure
authors: G Marmo, G Scolarici, A Simoni, F Ventriglia
comments: 19 pages
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 2 (2005) 127-145
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501094
abstract: According to Dirac, fundamental laws of Classical Mechanics should be recovered by means of an "appropriate limit" of Quantum Mechanics. In the same spirit it is reasonable to enquire about the fundamental geometric structures of Classical Mechanics which will survive the appropriate limit of Quantum Mechanics. This is the case for the symplectic structure. On the contrary, such geometric structures as the metric tensor and the complex structure, which are necessary for the formulation of the Quantum theory, may not survive the Classical limit, being not relevant in the Classical theory. Here we discuss the Classical limit of those geometric structures mainly in the Ehrenfest and Heisenberg pictures, i.e. at the level of observables rather than at the level of states. A brief discussion of the fate of the complex structure in the Quantum-Classical transition in the Schroedinger picture is also mentioned.

id: hep-th/0501166
title: Second quantized formulation of geometric phases
authors: Shinichi Deguchi, Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures. The analysis in the manuscript has been made more precise by including a brief account of the hidden local gauge symmetry and by adding several new equations. This revised version is to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 012111
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501166
abstract: The level crossing problem and associated geometric terms are neatly formulated by the second quantized formulation. This formulation exhibits a hidden local gauge symmetry related to the arbitrariness of the phase choice of the complete orthonormal basis set. By using this second quantized formulation, which does not assume adiabatic approximation, a convenient exact formula for the geometric terms including off-diagonal geometric terms is derived. The analysis of geometric phases is then reduced to a simple diagonalization of the Hamiltonian, and it is analyzed both in the operator and path integral formulations. If one diagonalizes the geometric terms in the infinitesimal neighborhood of level crossing, the geometric phases become trivial (and thus no monopole singularity) for arbitrarily large but finite time interval $T$. The integrability of Schr\"{o}dinger equation and the appearance of the seemingly non-integrable phases are thus consistent. The topological proof of the Longuet-Higgins' phase-change rule, for example, fails in the practical Born-Oppenheimer approximation where a large but finite ratio of two time scales is involved and $T$ is identified with the period of the slower system. The difference and similarity between the geometric phases associated with level crossing and the exact topological object such as the Aharonov-Bohm phase become clear in the present formulation. A crucial difference between the quantum anomaly and the geometric phases is also noted.

id: hep-th/0501193
title: Effective Field Theory Program for Conformal Quantum Anomalies
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Luis N. Epele, Huner Fanchiotti, Carlos A. Garcia Canal, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 15 pages. Expanded, with additional calculational details. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 032107
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501193
abstract: The emergence of conformal states is established for any problem involving a domain of scales where the long-range, SO(2,1) conformally invariant interaction is applicable. Whenever a clear-cut separation of ultraviolet and infrared cutoffs is in place, this renormalization mechanism produces binding in the strong-coupling regime. A realization of this phenomenon, in the form of dipole-bound anions, is discussed.

id: hep-th/0501231
title: Noncommutative Quantum Mechanics with Path Integral
authors: Branko Dragovich, Zoran Rakic
comments: 11 pages, to appear in the proceedings of the "Third Summer School in Modern Mathematical Physics" (Zlatibor, August 2004), published by Institute of Physics, Belgrade, 2005
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0501231
abstract: We consider classical and quantum mechanics related to an additional noncommutativity, symmetric in position and momentum coordinates. We show that such mechanical system can be transformed to the corresponding one which allows employment of the usual formalism. In particular, we found explicit connections between quadratic Hamiltonians and Lagrangians, in their commutative and noncommutative regimes. In the quantum case we give general procedure how to compute Feynman's path integral in this noncommutative phase space with quadratic Lagrangians (Hamiltonians). This approach is applied to a charged particle in the noncommutative plane exposed to constant homogeneous electric and magnetic fields.

id: math-ph/0501066
title: An isoperimetric problem for leaky loops and related mean-chord inequalities
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46 (2005), 062105
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0501066
abstract: We consider a class of Hamiltonians in $L^2(\R^2)$ with attractive interaction supported by piecewise $C^2$ smooth loops $\Gamma$ of a fixed length $L$, formally given by $-\Delta-\alpha\delta(x-\Gamma)$ with $\alpha>0$. It is shown that the ground state of this operator is locally maximized by a circular $\Gamma$. We also conjecture that this property holds globally and show that the problem is related to an interesting family of geometric inequalities concerning mean values of chords of $\Gamma$.

id: math-ph/0501069
title: MHD alpha^2-dynamo, Squire equation and PT-symmetric interpolation between square well and harmonic oscillator
authors: Uwe Guenther, Frank Stefani, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 21 pages, LaTeX2e, 10 figures, minor improvements, references added, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 063504
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0501069
abstract: It is shown that the alpha^2-dynamo of Magnetohydrodynamics, the hydrodynamic Squire equation as well as an interpolation model of PT-symmetric Quantum Mechanics are closely related as spectral problems in Krein spaces. For the alpha^2-dynamo and the PT-symmetric model the strong similarities are demonstrated with the help of a 2x2 operator matrix representation, whereas the Squire equation is re-interpreted as a rescaled and Wick-rotated PT-symmetric problem. Based on recent results on the Squire equation the spectrum of the PT-symmetric interpolation model is analyzed in detail and the Herbst limit is described as spectral singularity.

id: physics/0501120
title: Non-relativistic quantum scattering from non-local separable potentials: the eigenchannel approach
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: 10 pages, slightly improved version
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 14, 398-407 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0501120
abstract: A recently formulated version of the eigenchannel method [R. Szmytkowski, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) {\bf 311}, 503 (2004)] is applied to quantum scattering of Schr\"odinger particles from non-local separable potentials. Eigenchannel vectors and negative cotangents of eigenphase-shifts are introduced as eigensolutions to some weighted matrix spectral problem, without a necessity of prior construction and diagonalization of the scattering matrix. Explicit expressions for the scattering amplitude, the total cross section in terms of the eigenchannel vectors and the eigenphase-shifts are derived. An illustrative example is provided.

