id: quant-ph/0502004
title: Spacetime structures of continuous time quantum walks
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; accepted for publication in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 036128 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0502004
abstract: The propagation by continuous time quantum walks (CTQWs) on one-dimensional lattices shows structures in the transition probabilities between different sites reminiscent of quantum carpets. For a system with periodic boundary conditions, we calculate the transition probabilities for a CTQW by diagonalizing the transfer matrix and by a Bloch function ansatz. Remarkably, the results obtained for the Bloch function ansatz can be related to results from (discrete) generalized coined quantum walks. Furthermore, we show that here the first revival time turns out to be larger than for quantum carpets.

id: quant-ph/0502072
title: NP-complete Problems and Physical Reality
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 23 pages, minor corrections
journal: ACM SIGACT News, March 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0502072
abstract: Can NP-complete problems be solved efficiently in the physical universe? I survey proposals including soap bubbles, protein folding, quantum computing, quantum advice, quantum adiabatic algorithms, quantum-mechanical nonlinearities, hidden variables, relativistic time dilation, analog computing, Malament-Hogarth spacetimes, quantum gravity, closed timelike curves, and "anthropic computing." The section on soap bubbles even includes some "experimental" results. While I do not believe that any of the proposals will let us solve NP-complete problems efficiently, I argue that by studying them, we can learn something not only about computation but also about physics.

id: quant-ph/0502111
title: Quantum Indeterminism and First Passage Random Walks in Hilbert Space
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: model extended and partly rewritten for clarity and rigour
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0502111
abstract: We propose a new model for a measurement of a characteristic of a microscopic quantum state by a large system that selects stochastically the different eigenstates with appropriate quantum weights. Unlike previous works which formulate a modified Schr\"odinger equation or an explicit modified Hamiltonian, or more complicated mechanisms for reduction and decoherence to introduce transition to classical stochasticity, we propose the novel use of couplings to the environment, and random walks in the product Hilbert space of the combined system, with first passage stopping rules, which seem intuitively simple, as quantum weights and related stochasticity is a commonality that must be preserved under the widest range of applications, independent of the measured quantity and the specific properties of the measuring device.

