id: quant-ph/0503001
title: Testing Gravity-Driven Collapse of the Wavefunction via Cosmogenic Neutrinos
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 4 pages; RevTeX4; Essentially the version published in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 95 (2005) 160403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503001
abstract: It is pointed out that the Diosi-Penrose ansatz for gravity-induced quantum state reduction can be tested by observing oscillations in the flavor ratios of neutrinos originated at cosmological distances. Since such a test would be almost free of environmental decoherence, testing the ansatz by means of a next generation neutrino detector such as IceCube would be much cleaner than by experiments proposed so far involving superpositions of macroscopic systems. The proposed microscopic test would also examine the universality of superposition principle at unprecedented cosmological scales.

id: quant-ph/0503002
title: Enhancing practical security of quantum key distribution with a few decoy states
authors: Jim W. Harrington, J. Mark Ettinger, Richard J. Hughes, Jane E. Nordholt
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, RevTex 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503002
abstract: Quantum key distribution establishes a secret string of bits between two distant parties. Of concern in weak laser pulse schemes is the especially strong photon number splitting attack by an eavesdropper, but the decoy state method can detect this attack with current technology, yielding a high rate of secret bits. In this Letter, we develop rigorous security statements in the case of finite statistics with only a few decoy states, and we present the results of simulations of an experimental setup of a decoy state protocol that can be simply realized with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0503003
title: Continuous variable encoding by ponderomotive interaction
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: Revised version - 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37, 283--290 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503003
abstract: Recently it has been proposed to construct quantum error-correcting codes that embed a finite-dimensional Hilbert space in the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of a system described by continuous quantum variables [D. Gottesman et al., Phys. Rev. A 64, 012310 (2001)]. The main difficulty of this continuous variable encoding relies on the physical generation of the quantum codewords. We show that ponderomotive interaction suffices to this end. As a matter of fact, this kind of interaction between a system and a meter causes a frequency change on the meter proportional to the position quadrature of the system. Then, a phase measurement of the meter leaves the system in an eigenstate of the stabilizer generators, provided that system and meter's initial states are suitably prepared. Here we show how to implement this interaction using trapped ions, and how the encoding can be performed on their motional degrees of freedom. The robustness of the codewords with respect to the various experimental imperfections is then analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0503004
title: Getting Something Out of Nothing
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 4 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol 5, No. 4&5 (2005) 413-418.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503004
abstract: We study quantum key distribution with standard weak coherent states and show, rather counter-intuitively, that the detection events originated from vacua can contribute to secure key generation rate, over and above the best prior art result. Our proof is based on a communication complexity/quantum memory argument.

id: quant-ph/0503005
title: Practical Decoy State for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: X. Ma, B. Qi, Y. Zhao, H.-K. Lo
comments: 31 pages. 6 figures. Preprint format
journal: Phys. Rev. A72, 012326 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503005
abstract: Decoy states have recently been proposed as a useful method for substantially improving the performance of quantum key distribution. Here, we present a general theory of the decoy state protocol based on only two decoy states and one signal state. We perform optimization on the choice of intensities of the two decoy states and the signal state. Our result shows that a decoy state protocol with only two types of decoy states--the vacuum and a weak decoy state--asymptotically approaches the theoretical limit of the most general type of decoy state protocols (with an infinite number of decoy states). We also present a one-decoy-state protocol. Moreover, we provide estimations on the effects of statistical fluctuations and suggest that, even for long distance (larger than 100km) QKD, our two-decoy-state protocol can be implemented with only a few hours of experimental data. In conclusion, decoy state quantum key distribution is highly practical.

id: quant-ph/0503006
title: Any is not all: EPR and the Einstein-Tolman-Podolsky paper
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: 4 pages, no figure. The text has been changed to reflect comments and suggestions that I got during lectures and further comments and suggestions made by colleagues. The wording has been changed, as the one in the new version of quant-ph/0501030
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503006
abstract: In Bohm's version of the EPR gedanken experiment, the spin of the second particle along any vector is minus the spin of the other particle along the same vector. It seems that either the choice of vector along which one projects the spin of the first particle influences at superluminal speed the state of the second particle, or naive realism holds true i.e., the projections of the spin of any EPR particle along all the vectors are determined before any measurement occurs). Naive realism is negated by Bell's theory that originated and is still most often presented as related to non-locality, a relation whose necessity has recently been proven to be false. I advocate here that the solution of the apparent paradox lies in the fact that the spin of the second particle is determined along any vector, but not along all vectors. Such an any-all distinction was already present in quantum mechanics, for instance in the fact that the spin can be measured along any vector but not at once along all vectors, as a result of the Uncertainty Principle. The time symmetry of the any-all distinction defended here is in fact reminiscent of (and I claim, due to) the time symmetry of the Uncertainty Principle described by Einstein, Tolman, and Podolsky in 1931, in a paper entitled ``Knowledge of Past and Future in Quantum Mechanics" that is enough to negate naive realism and to hint at the any-all distinction. A simple classical model is next built, which captures aspects of the any-all distinction: the goal is of course not to have a classical exact model, but to provide a caricature that might help some people.

id: quant-ph/0503007
title: How come the Correlations?
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: Talk presented at the Symposium "The Science of Nonlocality and Eastern Approaches to Exploring Ultimate Reality" organized by the Templeton Foundation, May 31, 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503007
abstract: In relativity there is space-time out there. In quantum mechanics there is entanglement. Entanglement manifests itself by producing correlations between classical events (e.g. the firing of some detectors) at any two space-time locations. If the locations are time-like separated, i.e. one is in the future of the other, then there is no specific difficulty to understand the correlations. But if the two locations are space-like separated, the problem is different. How can the two space-time locations out there know about what happens in each other without any sort of communication? If space-time really exists, the locations must do something like communicating. Or it was all set up at the Beginning. But the correlations depend also on the free choice of the experimentalists, one in each space-time location. This allowed John Bell to derive his inequality and the experimentalists to violate it, thus refuting the assumption that it was all set up at the beginning: the Correlations can't be explained by common causes.

id: quant-ph/0503008
title: Postulates of quantum mechanics and phenomenology
authors: D.A.Slavnov
comments: 18 pages, Latex, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503008
abstract: We describe a system of axioms that, on one hand, is sufficient for constructing the standard mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics and, on the other hand, is necessary from the phenomenological standpoint. In the proposed scheme, the Hilbert space and linear operators are only secondary structures of the theory, while the primary structures are the elements of a noncommutative algebra (observables) and the functionals on this algebra, associated with the results of a single observation.

id: quant-ph/0503009
title: Quantum Measurement, a coherent description
authors: Bas Janssens
comments: Master Thesis in Mathematical Physics, 64 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503009
abstract: It is widely known that `collapse of the wave function' on a quantum system A may be brought about by an interaction with another quantum system B. We will prove that this is not just a possible, but a necessary consequence of information transfer from A to B. We generalize this in order to explain why coherences are normally not observed in macroscopic quantum systems. Finally, we provide a quantitative insight into the balance between information gain and state disturbance. We define the quality of an information transfer. For all information transfers of a certain quality, we find a minimum amount of state collapse. Along the way, we obtain generalizations of the Joint Measurement Theorem and of the Heisenberg Principle.

id: quant-ph/0503010
title: Information-technology approach to quantum feedback control
authors: Dao-Yi Dong, Chen-Bin Zhang, Zong-Hai Chen
comments: 10 pages,submitted
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 20(2006)1304-1316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503010
abstract: Quantum control theory is profitably reexamined from the perspective of quantum information, two results on the role of quantum information technology in quantum feedback control are presented and two quantum feedback control schemes, teleportation-based distant quantum feedback control and quantum feedback control with quantum cloning, are proposed. In the first feedback scheme, the output from the quantum system to be controlled is fed back into the distant actuator via teleportation to alter the dynamics of system. The result theoretically shows that it can accomplish some tasks such as distant feedback quantum control that Markovian or Bayesian quantum feedback can't complete. In the second feedback strategy, the design of quantum feedback control algorithms is separated into a state recognition step, which gives "on-off" signal to the actuator through recognizing some copies from the cloning machine, and a feedback (control) step using another copies of cloning machine. A compromise between information acquisition and measurement disturbance is established, and this strategy can perform some quantum control tasks with coherent feedback.

id: quant-ph/0503011
title: Analysis of the SGA method for obtaining energy spectra
authors: Patricio Cordero, Jamil Daboul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503011
abstract: We analyze and clarify how the SGA (spectrum generating algebra) method has been applied to different potentials. We emphasize that each energy level $E_\nu$ obtained originally by Morse belongs to a {\em different} ${\mathfrak {so}}(2,1)$ multiplet. The corresponding wavefunctions $\Psi_\nu$ are eigenfuntions of the compact generators $J^\nu_0$ with the same eigenvalue $k_0$, but with different eigenvalues $q_\nu$ of the Casimir operators $Q$. We derive a general expression for all effective potentials which have $\Psi_{\lambda_\nu,\nu+m}(r) \propto (J_+^\nu)^m ~\Psi_{\lambda_\nu,\nu}(r)$ as eigenfunctions, without using super-symmetry formalism. The different actions of SGA is further illustrated by two diagrams.

id: quant-ph/0503012
title: On the generalization of quantum state comparison
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, D. Bruss
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, Proposition 1 corrected, appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032308 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503012
abstract: We investigate the unambiguous comparison of quantum states in a scenario that is more general than the one that was originally suggested by Barnett et al. First, we find the optimal solution for the comparison of two states taken from a set of two pure states with arbitrary a priori probabilities. We show that the optimal coherent measurement is always superior to the optimal incoherent measurement. Second, we develop a strategy for the comparison of two states from a set of N pure states, and find an optimal solution for some parameter range when N=3. In both cases we use the reduction method for the corresponding problem of mixed state discrimination, as introduced by Raynal et al., which reduces the problem to the discrimination of two pure states only for N=2. Finally, we provide a necessary and sufficient condition for unambiguous comparison of mixed states to be possible.

id: quant-ph/0503013
title: Entanglement Distillation Protocols and Number Theory
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: REVTEX4 file, 7 color figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503013
abstract: We show that the analysis of entanglement distillation protocols for qudits of arbitrary dimension $D$ benefits from applying basic concepts from number theory, since the set $\zdn$ associated to Bell diagonal states is a module rather than a vector space. We find that a partition of $\zdn$ into divisor classes characterizes the invariant properties of mixed Bell diagonal states under local permutations. We construct a very general class of recursion protocols by means of unitary operations implementing these local permutations. We study these distillation protocols depending on whether we use twirling operations in the intermediate steps or not, and we study them both analitically and numerically with Monte Carlo methods. In the absence of twirling operations, we construct extensions of the quantum privacy algorithms valid for secure communications with qudits of any dimension $D$. When $D$ is a prime number, we show that distillation protocols are optimal both qualitatively and quantitatively.

id: quant-ph/0503014
title: Comment on ``Kepler problem in Dirac theory for a particle with position-dependent mass''
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503014
abstract: Based on easy-to-follow considerations it is not difficult to be vehemently opposed not only the solutions found in that paper but also the conclusions manifested there.

id: quant-ph/0503015
title: Exploring super-radiant phase transitions via coherent control of a multi-qubit--cavity system
authors: Timothy C. Jarrett, Chiu Fan Lee, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503015
abstract: We propose the use of coherent control of a multi-qubit--cavity QED system in order to explore novel phase transition phenomena in a general class of multi-qubit--cavity systems. In addition to atomic systems, the associated super-radiant phase transitions should be observable in a variety of solid-state experimental systems, including the technologically important case of interacting quantum dots coupled to an optical cavity mode.

id: quant-ph/0503016
title: Static and Dynamic Casimir Effect Instabilities
authors: Y. N. Srivastava, A. Widom, S. Sivasubramanian, M. Pradeep Ganesh
comments: LaTeX format, One Figure in *.eps format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503016
abstract: The static Casimir effect concerns quantum electrodynamic induced Lamb shifts in the mode frequencies and thermal free energies of condensed matter systems. Sometimes, the condensed matter constitutes the boundaries of a vacuum region. The static frequency shift effects have been calculated in the one photon loop perturbation theory approximation. The dynamic Casimir effect concerns two photon radiation processes arising from time dependent frequency modulations again computed in the one photon loop approximation. Under certain conditions the one photon loop computation may become unstable and higher order terms must be invoked to achieve stable solutions. This stability calculation is discussed for a simple example dynamical Casimir effect system.

id: quant-ph/0503017
title: Weak measurements are universal
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX format, essentially the published version, reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110409 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503017
abstract: It is well known that any projective measurement can be decomposed into a sequence of weak measurements, which cause only small changes to the state. Similar constructions for generalized measurements, however, have relied on the use of an ancilla system. We show that any generalized measurement can be decomposed into a sequence of weak measurements without the use of an ancilla, and give an explicit construction for these weak measurements. The measurement procedure has the structure of a random walk along a curve in state space, with the measurement ending when one of the end points is reached. This shows that any measurement can be generated by weak measurements, and hence that weak measurements are universal. This may have important applications to the theory of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0503018
title: Comment on recent Physical Review Letter by Gaidarzhy, et al. "Evidence for quantized displacement in macroscopic nanomechanical oscillator."
authors: K.C. Schwab, M.P. Blencowe, M.L. Roukes, A.N. Cleland, S.M. Girvin, G.J. Milburn, K.L. Ekinci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503018
abstract: In a recent letter, Gaidarzhy et al. claim to have observed evidence for quantized displacements of a nanomechanical oscillator. We contend that the evidence, analysis, claims, and conclusions presented are contrary to expectations from fundamentals of quantum mechanics and elasticity theory, and that the method used by the authors is unsuitable in principle to observe the quantized energy states of a nanomechanical structure.

id: quant-ph/0503019
title: Control of non-controllable quantum systems: A quantum control algorithm based on Grover iteration
authors: Chen-Bin Zhang, Dao-Yi Dong, Zong-Hai Chen
comments: 7 pages, no figures, submitted
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S313-S317
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503019
abstract: A new notion of controllability, eigenstate controllability, is defined for finite-dimensional bilinear quantum mechanical systems which are neither strongly completely controllably nor completely controllable. And a quantum control algorithm based on Grover iteration is designed to perform a quantum control task of steering a system, which is eigenstate controllable but may not be (strongly) completely controllable, from an arbitrary state to a target state.

id: quant-ph/0503020
title: S-wave quantum entanglement in a harmonic trap
authors: Jia Wang, C. K. Law, M.-C. Chu
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, to be apear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503020
abstract: We analyze the quantum entanglement between two interacting atoms trapped in a spherical harmonic potential. At ultra-cold temperature, ground state entanglement is generated by the dominated s-wave interaction. Based on a regularized pseudo-potential Hamiltonian, we examine the quantum entanglement by performing the Schmidt decomposition of low-energy eigenfunctions. We indicate how the atoms are paired and quantify the entanglement as a function of a modified s-wave scattering length inside the trap.

id: quant-ph/0503021
title: Comment on "Practical Decoy State for Quantum Key Distribution"
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: The paper is withdrawn by the author because its main scientific content has been moved to the "Note Added" part of quant-ph/0501143, v6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503021
abstract: Please goto the "Note Added" part of v6, quant-ph/0501143

id: quant-ph/0503022
title: Characterization of tomographically faithful states in terms of their Wigner function
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 9 pages. IOPAMS style. Some improvements
journal: J. Opt. B 7, S408 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503022
abstract: A bipartite quantum state is tomographically faithful when it can be used as an input of a quantum operation acting on one of the two quantum systems, such that the joint output state carries a complete information about the operation itself. Tomographically faithful states are a necessary ingredient for tomography of quantum operations and for complete quantum calibration of measuring apparatuses. In this paper we provide a complete classification of such states for continuous variables in terms of the Wigner function of the state. For two-mode Gaussian states faithfulness simply resorts to correlation between the modes.

id: quant-ph/0503023
title: Understanding light quanta:Construction of the free electromagnetic field
authors: A. C. de la Torre
comments: Continuation of quant-ph/0410171 and quant-ph/0410179 Comment added and references updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503023
abstract: The free electromagnetic field, solution of Maxwell's equations and carrier of energy, momentum and spin, is construed as an emergent collective property of an ensemble of photons, and with this, the consistency of an interpretation that considers that the photons, and not the electromagnetic fields, are the primary ontology is established.

id: quant-ph/0503024
title: A QKD Protocol Extendable to Support Entanglement and Reduce Unauthorized Information Gain by Randomizing the Bases Lists with Key Values and Invalidate Explicit Privacy Amplification
authors: C. Sanjeevakumar, M. Kasi Rajan, L. Sudarsan, R. Venkatesh, N. Srinivasan
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, submitted for review to the USENIX 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503024
abstract: This paper suggests an improvement to the BB84 scheme in Quantum key distribution. The original scheme has its weakness in letting quantifiably more information gain to an eavesdropper during public announcement of unencrypted bases lists. The security of the secret key comes at the expense of the final key length. We aim at exploiting the randomness of preparation (measurement) basis and the bit values encoded (observed), so as to randomize the bases lists before they are communicated over the public channel. A proof of security is given for our scheme and proven that our protocol results in lesser information gain by Eve in comparison with BB84 and its other extensions. Moreover, an analysis is made on the feasibility of our proposal as such and to support entanglement based QKD. The performance of our protocol is compared in terms of the upper and lower bounds on the tolerable bit error rate. We also quantify the information gain (by Eve) mathematically using the familiar approach of the concept of Shannon entropy. The paper models the attack by Eve in terms of interference in a multi-access quantum channel. Besides, this paper also hints at the invalidation of a separate privacy amplification step in the "prepare-and-measure" protocols in general.

id: quant-ph/0503025
title: Multi-particle entanglement under asymptotic positive partial transpose preserving operations
authors: S. Ishizaka, M.B. Plenio
comments: Minor changes in the presentation, proof of strict sub-additivity of relative entropy of entanglement for pure tri-partite states moved into main text, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503025
abstract: We demonstrate that even under positive partial transpose preserving operations in an asymptotic setting GHZ and W states are not reversibly interconvertible. We investigate the structure of minimal reversible entanglement generating set (MREGS) for tri-partite states under positive partial transpose (ppt) preserving operations. We demonstrate that the set consisting of W and EPR states alone cannot be an MREGS. In this context we prove the surprising result that the relative entropy of entanglement can be strictly sub-additive for certain pure tri-partite states which is crucial to keep open the possibility that the set of GHZ-state and EPR states together constitute an MREGS under ppt-preserving operations.

id: quant-ph/0503026
title: Quantum Mechanics in Space--Time: the Feynman Path Amplitude Description of Physical Optics, de Broglie Matter Waves and Quark and Neutrino Flavour Oscillations
authors: J.H.Field
comments: 89 pages, 12 figures, 3 tables
journal: Annals Phys.321:627-707,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503026
abstract: Feynman's laws of quantum dynamics are concisely stated, discussed in comparison with other formulations of quantum mechanics and applied to selected problems in the physical optics of photons and massive particles as well as flavour oscillations. The classical wave theory of light is derived from these laws for the case in which temporal variation of path amplitudes may be neglected, whereas specific experiments, sensitive to the temporal properties of path amplitudes, are suggested. The reflection coefficient of light from the surface of a transparent medium is found to be markedly different to that predicted by the classical Fresnel formula. Except for neutrino oscillations, good agreement is otherwise found with previous calculations of spatially dependent quantum interference effects.

id: quant-ph/0503027
title: A Three-Stage Quantum Cryptography Protocol
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters 19 (2006), 293-296.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503027
abstract: We present a three-stage quantum cryptographic protocol guaranteeing security in which each party uses its own secret key. Unlike the BB84 protocol, where the qubits are transmitted in only one direction and classical information exchanged thereafter, the communication in the proposed protocol remains quantum in each stage. A related system of key distribution is also described.

id: quant-ph/0503028
title: Classical and Quantum Analysis of One Dimensional Velocity Selection for Ultracold Atoms
authors: J. K. Fox, H. A. Kim, S. R. Mishra, S. H. Myrskog, A. M. Jofre, L. R. Segal, J. B. Kim, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503028
abstract: We discuss a velocity selection technique for obtaining cold atoms, in which all atoms below a certain energy are spatially selected from the surrounding atom cloud. Velocity selection can in some cases be more efficient than other cooling techniques for the preparation of ultracold atom clouds in one dimension. With quantum mechanical and classical simulations and theory we present a scheme using a dipole force barrier to select the coldest atoms from a magnetically trapped atom cloud. The dipole and magnetic potentials create a local minimum which traps the coldest atoms. A unique advantage of this technique is the sharp cut-off in the velocity distribution of the sample of selected atoms. Such a non-thermal distribution should prove useful for a variety of experiments, including proposed studies of atomic tunneling and scattering from quantum potentials. We show that when the rms size of the atom cloud is smaller than the local minimum in which the selected atoms are trapped, the velocity selection technique can be more efficient in 1-D than some common techniques such as evaporative cooling. For example, one simulation shows nearly 6% of the atoms retained at a temperature 100 times lower than the starting condition.

id: quant-ph/0503029
title: Entanglement and conservation of orbital angular momentum in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: S. P. Walborn, A. N. de Oliveira, R. S. Thebaldi, C. H. Monken
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 69, 023811 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503029
abstract: We show that the transfer of the plane wave spectrum of the pump beam to the fourth-order transverse spatial correlation function of the two-photon field generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion leads to the conservation and entanglement of orbital angular momentum of light. By means of a simple experimental setup based on fourth-order (or two-photon) interferometry, we show that our theoretical model provides a good description for down-converted fields carrying orbital angular momentum.

id: quant-ph/0503030
title: Low Momentum Classical Mechanics with Effective Quantum Potentials
authors: Fernando Haas
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503030
abstract: A recently introduced effective quantum potential theory is studied in a low momentum region of phase space. This low momentum approximation is used to show that the new effective quantum potential induces a space-dependent mass and a smoothed potential both of them constructed from the classical potential. The exact solution of the approximated theory in one spatial dimension is found. The concept of effective transmission and reflection coefficients for effective quantum potentials is proposed and discussed in comparison with an analogous quantum statistical mixture problem. The results are applied to the case of a square barrier.

id: quant-ph/0503031
title: Insecurity Of Imperfect Quantum Bit Seal
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 4 pages, title changed to better reflect what is exactly proven, to appear in Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503031
abstract: Quantum bit seal is a way to encode a classical bit quantum mechanically so that everyone can obtain non-zero information on the value of the bit. Moreover, such an attempt should have a high chance of being detected by an authorized verifier. Surely, a reader looks for a way to get the maximum amount of information on the sealed bit and at the same time to minimize her chance of being caught. And a verifier picks a sealing scheme that maximizes his chance of detecting any measurement of the sealed bit. Here, I report a strategy that passes all measurement detection procedures at least half of the time for all quantum bit sealing schemes. This strategy also minimizes a reader's chance of being caught under a certain scheme. In this way, I extend the result of Bechmann-Pasquinucci et al. by proving that quantum seal is insecure in the case of imperfect sealed bit recovery.

id: quant-ph/0503032
title: Use of non-adiabatic geometric phase for quantum computing by nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Ranabir Das, S. K. Karthick Kumar, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503032
abstract: Geometric phases have stimulated researchers for its potential applications in many areas of science. One of them is fault-tolerant quantum computation. A preliminary requisite of quantum computation is the implementation of controlled logic gates by controlled dynamics of qubits. In controlled dynamics, one qubit undergoes coherent evolution and acquires appropriate phase, depending on the state of other qubits. If the evolution is geometric, then the phase acquired depend only on the geometry of the path executed, and is robust against certain types of errors. This phenomenon leads to an inherently fault-tolerant quantum computation. Here we suggest a technique of using non-adiabatic geometric phase for quantum computation, using selective excitation. In a two-qubit system, we selectively evolve a suitable subsystem where the control qubit is in state |1>, through a closed circuit. By this evolution, the target qubit gains a phase controlled by the state of the control qubit. Using these geometric phase gates we demonstrate implementation of Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm and Grover's search algorithm in a two-qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0503033
title: On the observability of Bell's inequality violation in the optical Stern-Gerlach model
authors: M. Tumminello, A. Vaglica, G. Vetri
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, submitted to European Physical Journal D
journal: European Physical Journal D 36 (2): 235-239 NOV 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503033
abstract: Using the optical Stern-Gerlach model, we have recently shown that the non-local correlations between the internal variables of two atoms that successively interact with the field of an ideal cavity in proximity of a nodal region are affected by the atomic translational dynamics. As a consequence, there can be some difficulties in observing violation of the Bell's inequality for the atomic internal variables. These difficulties persist even if the atoms travel an antinodal region, except when the spatial wave packets are exactly centered in an antinodal point.

id: quant-ph/0503034
title: Unravelling Two-Photon High-Dimensional Entanglement
authors: A. Aiello, S. S. R. Oemrawsingh, E. R. Eliel, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503034
abstract: We propose an interferometric method to investigate the non-locality of high-dimensional two-photon orbital angular momentum states generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion. We incorporate two half-integer spiral phase plates and a variable-reflectivity output beam splitter into a Mach-Zehnder interferometer to build an orbital angular momentum analyzer. This setup enables testing the non-locality of high-dimensional two-photon states by repeated use of the Clauser-Horne inequality.

id: quant-ph/0503035
title: PT-symmetric supersymmetry in a solvable short-range model
authors: B. Bagchi, H. Bila, V. Jakubsky, S. Mallik, C. Quesne, M. Znojil
comments: 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503035
abstract: The simplest purely imaginary and piecewise constant $\cal PT$-symmetric potential located inside a larger box is studied. Unless its strength exceeds a certain critical value, all the spectrum of its bound states remains real and discrete. We interpret such a model as an initial element of the generalized non-Hermitian Witten's hierarchy of solvable Hamiltonians and construct its first supersymmetric (SUSY) partner in closed form.

id: quant-ph/0503036
title: Pure superposition states of atoms generated by a bichromatic elliptically polarized filed
authors: A.V. Taichenachev, V.I. Yudin, V.L. Velichansky, A.S. Zibrov
comments: revtex4, 6 pages including 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503036
abstract: We find specific polarizations of components of a bichromatic field, which allow one to prepare pure superposition states of atoms, using the coherent population trapping effect. These $m$$-$$m$ states are prepared in the system of Zeeman substates of the ground-state hyperfine levels with arbitrary angular momenta $F_1$ and $F_2$. It is established that, in general case $m\ne 0$, the use of waves with elliptical polarizations ($\epsilon_1$$\perp$$\epsilon_2$ field configuration for alkali metal atoms) is necessary for the pure state preparation. We analytically show an unique advantage of the D1 line of alkali metal atoms, which consists in the possibility to generate pure $m$$-$$m$ states even in the absence of spectral resolution of the excited-state hyperfine levels, contrary to the D2 line.

id: quant-ph/0503037
title: Magnetic Susceptibility as a Macrosopic Entaglement Witness
authors: M. Wiesniak, V. Vedral, C. Brukner
comments: 6 Pages, 2 figures, revtex4
journal: New Journal of Physics 7, 258 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503037
abstract: We show that magnetic susceptibility can reveal spin entanglement between individual constituents of a solid, while magnetisation describes their local properties. We then show that these two thermodynamical quantities satisfy complementary relation in the quantum-mechanical sense. It describes sharing of (quantum) information in the solid between spin entanglement and local properties of its individual constituents. Magnetic susceptibility is shown to be a macroscopic spin entanglement witness that can be applied without complete knowledge of the specific model (Hamiltonian) of the solid.

id: quant-ph/0503038
title: Dependences of the van der Waals atom-wall interaction on atomic and material properties
authors: A. O. Caride, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, S. I. Zanette
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.71, N4, 042901-(1-8) (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503038
abstract: The 1%-accurate calculations of the van der Waals interaction between an atom and a cavity wall are performed in the separation region from 3 nm to 150 nm. The cases of metastable He${}^{\ast}$ and Na atoms near the metal, semiconductor or dielectric walls are considered. Different approximations to the description of wall material and atomic dynamic polarizability are carefully compared. The smooth transition to the Casimir-Polder interaction is verified. It is shown that to obtain accurate results for the atom-wall van der Waals interaction at shortest separations with an error less than 1% one should use the complete optical tabulated data for the complex refraction index of the wall material and the accurate dynamic polarizability of an atom. The obtained results may be useful for the theoretical interpretation of recent experiments on quantum reflection and Bose-Einstein condensation of ultracold atoms on or near surfaces of different nature.

id: quant-ph/0503039
title: A Group-Theoretical Approach to the Periodic Table of Chemical Elements: Old and New Developments
authors: M. R. Kibler
comments: Review paper (31 pages). Presented as an invited talk to The Second Harry Wiener International Memorial Conference: "The Periodic Table: Into the 21st Century", Brewster's KGR near Banff, Alberta, Canada, July 14-20, 2003. Published in: "The Mathematics of the Periodic Table", D.H. Rouvray and R.B. King, Eds. (Nova Science Publishers, New York, 2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503039
abstract: This paper is a companion article to the review paper by the present author devoted to the classification of matter constituents (chemical elements and particles) and published in the first part of the proceedings of The Second Harry Wiener International Memorial Conference (see quant-ph/0310155). It is mainly concerned with a group-theoretical approach to the Periodic Table of the neutral elements based on the noncompact group SO(4,2)xSU(2).

id: quant-ph/0503040
title: Is the CPT-norm always positive?
authors: Boris F Samsonov, Pinaki Roy
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L249--L255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503040
abstract: We give an explicit example of an exactly solvable PT-symmetric Hamiltonian with the unbroken PT symmetry which has one eigenfunction with the zero PT-norm. The set of its eigenfunctions is not complete in corresponding Hilbert space and it is non-diagonalizable. In the case of a regular Sturm-Liouville problem any diagonalizable PT-symmetric Hamiltonian with the unbroken PT symmetry has a complete set of positive CPT-normalazable eigenfunctions. For non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians a complete set of CPT-normalazable functions is possible but the functions belonging to the root subspace corresponding to multiple zeros of the characteristic determinant are not eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian anymore.

id: quant-ph/0503041
title: Differential geometry of density states
authors: V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, E.C.G. Sudarshan, F. Zaccaria
comments: 21 pages, to appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 55 (2005) 405-422
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503041
abstract: We consider a geometrization, i.e., we identify geometrical structures, for the space of density states of a quantum system. We also provide few comments on a possible application of this geometrization for composite systems.

id: quant-ph/0503042
title: Minimax determination of the energy spectrum of the Dirac equation in a Schwarzschild background
authors: Alejandro Caceres, Chris Doran
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503042
abstract: We calculate the bound-state energy spectrum of the Dirac Equation in a Schwarzschild black hole background using a minimax variational method. Our method extends that of Talman to the case of non-Hermitian interactions, such as a black hole. The trial function is expressed in terms of a basis set that takes into account both the Hermitian limit of the interaction in the non-relativistic approximation, and the general behaviour of the solutions at the origin, the horizon and infinity. Using this trial function an approximation to the full complex energy bound-state spectrum is computed. We study the behaviour of the method as the coupling constant of the interaction is increased, which increases both the relativistic effects and the size of the non-Hermitian part of the interaction. Finally we confirm that the method follows the expected Hylleraas-Undheim behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0503043
title: Fresnel tomography: a novel approach to the wave function reconstruction based on Fresnel representation of tomograms
authors: S. De Nicola, R. Fedele, M.A. Man'ko, V.I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, talk of M.A. Man'ko at the III International Workshop ``Nonlinear Physics. Theory and Experiment'' (Gallipoli, Italy, 24 June - 3 July 2004), to appear in Theor. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503043
abstract: New type of tomographic probability distribution, which contains complete information on the density matrix (wave function) related to the Fresnel transform of the complex wave function, is introduced. Relation to symplectic tomographic probability distribution is elucidated. Multimode generalization of the Fresnel tomography is presented. Examples of applications of the present approach are given.

id: quant-ph/0503044
title: The Bell Theorem as a Special Case of a Theorem of Bass
authors: Karl Hess, Walter Philipp
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503044
abstract: The theorem of Bell states that certain results of quantum mechanics violate inequalities that are valid for objective local random variables. We show that the inequalities of Bell are special cases of theorems found ten years earlier by Bass and stated in full generality by Vorob'ev. This fact implies precise necessary and sufficient mathematical conditions for the validity of the Bell inequalities. We show that these precise conditions differ significantly from the definition of objective local variable spaces and as an application that the Bell inequalities may be violated even for objective local random variables.

id: quant-ph/0503045
title: Experimental Characterization of 1-D Velocity Selection
authors: S. H. Myrskog, J. K. Fox, A. M. Jofre, L. R. Segal, S. R. Mishra, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503045
abstract: We demonstrate a 1-D velocity selection technique which relies on combining magnetic and optical potentials. We have selected atom clouds with temperatures as low as 2.9% of the initial temperature, with an efficiency of 1%. The efficiency (percentage of atoms selected) of the technique can vary as slowly as the square root of the final temperature. In addition to selecting the coldest atoms from a cloud, this technique imparts a sharp cut-off in the velocity distribution. The cold selected atoms are confined in a small well, spatially separated from higher energy atoms. Such a non-thermal distribution may be useful for atom optics experiments, such as studies of atom tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0503046
title: Effect of phase relaxation on quantum superpositions in complex collisions
authors: L. Benet, S.Yu. Kun, Wang Qi
comments: Extended revised version; 9 pages and 3 colour ps figures
journal: Phys.Rev. C73 (2006) 064602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503046
abstract: We study the effect of phase relaxation on coherent superpositions of rotating clockwise and anticlockwise wave packets in the regime of strongly overlapping resonances of the intermediate complex. Such highly excited deformed complexes may be created in binary collisions of heavy ions, molecules and atomic clusters. It is shown that phase relaxation leads to a reduction of the interference fringes, thus mimicking the effect of decoherence. This reduction is crucial for the determination of the phase--relaxation width from the data on the excitation function oscillations in heavy--ion collisions and bimolecular chemical reactions. The difference between the effects of phase relaxation and decoherence is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0503047
title: Optimal classical-communication-assisted local model of n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger correlations
authors: Tracey E. Tessier, Carlton M. Caves, Ivan H. Deutsch, Dave Bacon, Bryan Eastin
comments: New version - expanded and revised to address referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032305 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503047
abstract: We present a model, motivated by the criterion of reality put forward by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen and supplemented by classical communication, which correctly reproduces the quantum-mechanical predictions for measurements of all products of Pauli operators on an n-qubit GHZ state (or ``cat state''). The n-2 bits employed by our model are shown to be optimal for the allowed set of measurements, demonstrating that the required communication overhead scales linearly with n. We formulate a connection between the generation of the local values utilized by our model and the stabilizer formalism, which leads us to conjecture that a generalization of this method will shed light on the content of the Gottesman-Knill theorem.

id: quant-ph/0503048
title: Ultrahigh-sensitivity high-linearity photodetection system using a low-gain avalanche photodiode with an ultralow-noise readout circuit
authors: Makoto Akiba, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Letters, 30(2), 123 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503048
abstract: A highly sensitive photodetection system with a detection limit of 1 photon/s was developed. This system uses a commercially available 200-mm-diameter silicon avalanche photodiode (APD) and an in-house-developed ultralow-noise readout circuit, which are both cooled to 77 K. When the APD operates at a low gain of about 10, it has a high-linearity response to the number of incident photons and a low excess noise factor. The APD also has high quantum efficiency and a dark current of less than 1 e/s at 77 K. This photodetection system will shorten the measurement time and enable higher spatial and wavelength resolution for near-field scanning optical microscopes.

id: quant-ph/0503049
title: Effective squeezing enhancement via measurement-induced non-Gaussian operation and its application to dense coding scheme
authors: Akira Kitagawa, Masahiro Takeoka, Kentaro Wakui, Masahide Sasaki
comments: REVTeX4, 14 pages with 21 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022334 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503049
abstract: We study the measurement-induced non-Gaussian operation on the single- and two-mode \textit{Gaussian} squeezed vacuum states with beam splitters and on-off type photon detectors, with which \textit{mixed non-Gaussian} states are generally obtained in the conditional process. It is known that the entanglement can be enhanced via this non-Gaussian operation on the two-mode squeezed vacuum state. We show that, in the range of practical squeezing parameters, the conditional outputs are still close to Gaussian states, but their second order variances of quantum fluctuations and correlations are effectively suppressed and enhanced, respectively. To investigate an operational meaning of these states, especially entangled states, we also evaluate the quantum dense coding scheme from the viewpoint of the mutual information, and we show that non-Gaussian entangled state can be advantageous compared with the original two-mode squeezed state.

id: quant-ph/0503050
title: Multiphoton discrimination at telecom wavelength with charge integration photon detector
authors: Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for Applied Physics letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503050
abstract: We present a charge integration photon detector (CIPD) that enables the efficient measurement of photon number states at the telecom-fiber wavelengths with a quantum efficiency of 80% and a resolution less than 0.5 electrons at 1 Hz sampling. The CIPD consists of an InGaAs PIN photodiode and a GaAs JFET in a charge integration amplifier, which is cooled to 4.2 K to reduce thermal noise and leakage current. The charge integration amplifier exhibits a low noise level of 470 nV/Hz1/2. The dark count is as low as 500 electrons/hour.

id: quant-ph/0503051
title: Quantum Information Processing using coherent states in cavity QED
authors: Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Volume 366, 1 July 2006, Pages 243-249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503051
abstract: Using the highly detuned interaction between three-level $\Lambda$-type atoms and coherent optical fields, we can realize the C-NOT gates from atoms to atoms, optical fields to optical fields, atoms to optical fields and optical fields to atoms. Based on the realization of the C-NOT gates we propose an entanglement purification scheme to purify a mixed entangled states of coherent optical fields. The simplicity of the current scheme makes it possible that it will be implemented in experiment in the near future.

id: quant-ph/0503052
title: Minimum orbit dimension for local unitary action on n-qubit pure states
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46(10):102106, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503052
abstract: The group of local unitary transformations partitions the space of n-qubit quantum states into orbits, each of which is a differentiable manifold of some dimension. We prove that all orbits of the n-qubit quantum state space have dimension greater than or equal to 3n/2 for n even and greater than or equal to (3n + 1)/2 for n odd. This lower bound on orbit dimension is sharp, since n-qubit states composed of products of singlets achieve these lowest orbit dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0503053
title: Moduli of Quanta
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 3 (2006) 177-186
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503053
abstract: The classical phase of the matrix model of 11-dimensional M-theory is complex, infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. As a complex manifold, the latter admits a continuum of nonequivalent, complex-differentiable structures that can be placed in 1-to-1 correspondence with families of coherent states in the Hilbert space of quantum states. The moduli space of nonbiholomorphic complex structures on classical phase space turns out to be an infinite-dimensional symmetric space. We argue that each choice of a complex differentiable structure gives rise to a physically different notion of an elementary quantum.

id: quant-ph/0503054
title: Extended Cahill-Glauber formalism for finite dimensional spaces: I. Fundamentals
authors: M. Ruzzi, M. A. Marchiolli, D. Galetti
comments: 11 pages, minor changes, to appear on J. Phys. A: Math. and Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503054
abstract: The Cahill-Glauber approach for quantum mechanics on phase-space is extended to the finite dimensional case through the use of discrete coherent states. All properties and features of the continuous formalism are appropriately generalized. The continuum results are promptly recovered as a limiting case. The Jacobi Theta functions are shown to have a prominent role in the context.

id: quant-ph/0503055
title: Multimode Squeezing Properties of a Confocal Opo: Beyond the Thin Crystal Approximation
authors: Laurent Lopez, Sylvain Gigan, Nicolas Treps, Agns Maitre, Claude Fabre, Alessandra Gatti
comments: soumis le 04.03.2005 a PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503055
abstract: Up to now, transverse quantum effects (usually labelled as "quantum imaging" effects) which are generated by nonlinear devices inserted in resonant optical cavities have been calculated using the "thin crystal approximation", i.e. taking into account the effect of diffraction only inside the empty part of the cavity, and neglecting its effect in the nonlinear propagation inside the nonlinear crystal. We introduce in the present paper a theoretical method which is not restricted by this approximation. It allows us in particular to treat configurations closer to the actual experimental ones, where the crystal length is comparable to the Rayleigh length of the cavity mode. We use this method in the case of the confocal OPO, where the thin crystal approximation predicts perfect squeezing on any area of the transverse plane, whatever its size and shape. We find that there exists in this case a "coherence length" which gives the minimum size of a detector on which perfect squeezing can be observed, and which gives therefore a limit to the improvement of optical resolution that can be obtained using such devices.

id: quant-ph/0503056
title: Terahertz-induced depletion of the ground-state population of neutral donors in GaAs measured by resonant elastic light scattering from donor-bound excitons
authors: D. G. Allen, C. R. Stanley, M. S. Sherwin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503056
abstract: Strong resonant elastic light scattering (RELS) from the donor-bound exciton transition in GaAs (1.514eV) occurs at neutral donors in the ground (1S) state, but not at neutral donors in excited hydrogenic states. When 1.6 THz radiation is incident on an ensemble of neutral donors, we observe up to a 30% decrease in the RELS, corresponding to a decrease in the population of neutral donors in their ground states. This optical detection method is similar to quantum nondemolition measurement techniques used for readout of ion trap quantum computers and diamond nitrogen-vacancy centers. In this scheme, Auger recombination of the bound exciton, which changes the state of the donor during measurement, limits the measurement fidelity and maximum NIR excitation intensity.

id: quant-ph/0503057
title: Security of Quantum Key Distribution with Realistic Devices
authors: Xiongfeng Ma
comments: This was a Master Report submitted in September 2004 to the University of Toronto, as a part of my Masters Degree Requirement
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503057
abstract: We simulate quantum key distribution (QKD) experimental setups and give out some improvement for QKD procedures. A new data post-processing protocol is introduced, mainly including error correction and privacy amplification. This protocol combines the ideas of GLLP and the decoy states, which essentially only requires to turn up and down the source power. We propose a practical way to perform the decoy state method, which mainly follows the idea of Lo's decoy state. A new data post-processing protocol is then developed for the QKD scheme with the decoy state. We first study the optimal expected photon number mu of the source for the improved QKD scheme. We get the new optimal mu=O(1) comparing with former mu=O(eta), where eta is the overall transmission efficiency. With this protocol, we can then improve the key generation rate from quadratic of transmission efficiency O(eta2) to O(eta). Based on the recent experimental setup, we obtain the maximum secure transmission distance of over 140 km.

id: quant-ph/0503058
title: Current status of the DARPA Quantum Network
authors: Chip Elliott, Alexander Colvin, David Pearson, Oleksiy Pikalo, John Schlafer, Henry Yeh
comments: Draft SPIE conference paper. 13 pages, 13 figures. Information current as of February 2005. Second draft
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503058
abstract: This paper reports the current status of the DARPA Quantum Network, which became fully operational in BBN's laboratory in October 2003, and has been continuously running in 6 nodes operating through telecommunications fiber between Harvard University, Boston University, and BBN since June 2004. The DARPA Quantum Network is the world's first quantum cryptography network, and perhaps also the first QKD systems providing continuous operation across a metropolitan area. Four more nodes are now being added to bring the total to 10 QKD nodes. This network supports a variety of QKD technologies, including phase-modulated lasers through fiber, entanglement through fiber, and freespace QKD. We provide a basic introduction and rational for this network, discuss the February 2005 status of the various QKD hardware suites and software systems in the network, and describe our operational experience with the DARPA Quantum Network to date. We conclude with a discussion of our ongoing work.

id: quant-ph/0503059
title: Generalized Spherical Harmonics for l=2
authors: Lister T. Mulindwa, Habatwa V. Mweene
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503059
abstract: We extend to the case l=2 the study of the new generalized spherical harmonics introduced recently, and worked out only for the case l=1. We present some of the properties of the new quantities and clarify how they are related to standard forms.

id: quant-ph/0503060
title: Experimental implementation of local adiabatic evolution algorithms by an NMR quantum information processor
authors: Avik Mitra, Arindam Ghosh, Ranabir Das, Apoorva Patel, Anil Kumar
comments: Title changed, Adiabatic Grover's search algorithm added, error analysis modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503060
abstract: Quantum adiabatic algorithm is a method of solving computational problems by evolving the ground state of a slowly varying Hamiltonian. The technique uses evolution of the ground state of a slowly varying Hamiltonian to reach the required output state. In some cases, such as the adiabatic versions of Grover's search algorithm and Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, applying the global adiabatic evolution yields a complexity similar to their classical algorithms. However, using the local adiabatic evolution, the algorithms given by J. Roland and N. J. Cerf for Grover's search [ Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 65} 042308(2002)] and by Saurya Das, Randy Kobes and Gabor Kunstatter for the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm [Phys. Rev. A. {\bf 65}, 062301 (2002)], yield a complexity of order $\sqrt{N}$ (where N=2$^{\rm n}$ and n is the number of qubits). In this paper we report the experimental implementation of these local adiabatic evolution algorithms on a two qubit quantum information processor, by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance.

id: quant-ph/0503061
title: The Description of Polarization
authors: Habatwa V. Mweene
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503061
abstract: In this paper, we extend to polarization the method we have recently employed to treat spin. We are led to a generalization of its treatment. Thus, we are able to connect its matrix treatment to first principles, and we obtain the most generalized probability amplitudes and operators for its description.

id: quant-ph/0503062
title: Remote state preparation: arbitrary remote control of photon polarization
authors: Nicholas A. Peters, Julio T. Barreiro, Michael E. Goggin, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: ~4 pages, 2 figures, comment and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v94, 150502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503062
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the first remote state preparation of arbitrary single-qubit states, encoded in the polarization of photons generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion. Utilizing degenerate and nondegenerate wavelength entangled sources, we remotely prepare arbitrary states at two wavelengths. Further, we derive theoretical bounds on the states that may be remotely prepared for given two-qubit resources.

id: quant-ph/0503063
title: Van der Waals interaction of excited media
authors: Yury B. Sherkunov
comments: 32 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 052703 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503063
abstract: Casimir interaction between two media of ground-state atoms is well described with the help of Lifshitz formula depending upon permittivity of media. We will show that this formula is in contradiction with experimental evidence for excited atoms. We calculate Casimir force between two atoms if one of them or both atoms are excited. We use methods of quantum electrodynamics specially derived for the problem. It enables us to take into account excited-state radiation widths of atoms. Then we calculate the force between excited atom and medium of ground-state atoms. The results are in agreement with the ones, obtained by other authors using perturbation theory or linear response theory. Generalization of our results to the case of interaction between two media of excited atoms results in a formula, which is in not only in quantitative, but in qualitative contradiction with Lifshits formula. This contradiction disappears if media of ground-state atoms are taken. Moreover, our result does not include permittivity of the media. It includes the quantity which differs from the permittivity only for excited atoms. The main features of our results are as follows. The interaction is resonant; the force may be either attractive or repulsive depending on resonant frequencies of the atoms of different media; the value of Casimir force may be several orders of magnitude lager than that predicted by Lifshitz formula. The features mentioned here are in agreement with known experimental and theoretical evidences obtained by many authors for interaction of a single excited atom with dielectric media.

id: quant-ph/0503064
title: Some Mathematical Aspects of the Lifshitz Formula for the Thermal Casimir Force
authors: V. M. Mostepanenko, A. O. Caride, G. L. Klimchitskaya, S. I. Zanette
comments: 7 pages, style file PoS.cls, Fourth International Winter Conference on Mathematical Methods in Physics. Published by SISSA, this http URL
journal: Proc. Sci. WC2004 (2005) 030.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503064
abstract: The applicability of the Lifshitz formula is discussed to the case of two thick parallel plates made of real metal. The usual description of the zero-point vacuum oscillations on the background of the frequency-dependent dielectric permittivity is shown to be in contradiction with thermodynamics. Instead, the Lifshitz formula for the Casimir free energy should be reformulated in terms of the reflection coefficients containing the surface impedance instead of the dielectric permittivity. This approach is presently confirmed experimentally by precision measurements of the van der Waals and Casimir forces in micromechanical systems and it is in agreement with thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0503065
title: Deflating Quantum Mysteries via the Relational Blockworld
authors: W. M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein, Michael Cifone
comments: Accepted for publication in Physics Essays. 22 pages text, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503065
abstract: We present a spacetime setting for non-relativistic quantum mechanics that deflates "quantum mysteries" and relates non-relativistic quantum mechanics to special relativity. This is achieved by assuming spacetime symmetries are fundamental in a blockworld setting, i.e., by interpreting spacetime relations as fundamental to relata. To justify this Relational Blockworld (RBW), we adopt a result due to G. Kaiser whereby the relativity of simultaneity, stemming from the Poincare algebra of special relativity, is responsible for the canonical commutation relations of non-relativistic quantum mechanics. And, we incorporate a result due to A. Bohr, B. Mottelson and O. Ulfbeck whereby the density matrix for a given experimental situation is obtained from its spacetime symmetry group. We provide an example to illustrate the explanatory nature of RBW and conclude by explaining how RBW deflates "quantum mysteries."

id: quant-ph/0503066
title: A Subjective Approach to Quantum Probability
authors: E. Lehrer, E. Shmaya
comments: 17 pages
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society. Mathematical, physical and engineering sciences. 462(2072): 2331-2344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503066
abstract: A likelihood order is defined over linear subspaces of a finite dimensional Hilbert space. It is shown that such an order that satisfies some plausible axioms can be represented by a quantum probability in two cases: pure state and uniform measure.

id: quant-ph/0503067
title: Hamiltonian of Homonucleus Molecules for NMR Quantum Computing
authors: Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara, Kazuya Hata, Shogo Tanimura
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503067
abstract: We derive the Hamiltonian in the rotating frame for NMR quantum computing with homonucleus molecules as its computational resource. The Hamiltonian thus obtained is different from conventional Hamiltonians that appear in literature. It is shown that control pulses designed for heteronucleus spins can be translated to pulses for homonucleus spins by simply replacing hard pulses by soft pulses with properly chosen pulse width. To demonstrate the validity of our Hamiltonian, we conducted several experiments employing cytosine as a homonucleus molecule. All the experimental results demonstrate that our Hamiltonian accurately describes the dynamics of the spins, while the conventional Hamiltonian fails. Finally we use our Hamiltonian for precise control of field inhomogeneity compensation with a pair of $\pi$-pulses.

id: quant-ph/0503068
title: The Future of Computation
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 7 pages, Revtex. Invited lecture at the Workshop on Quantum Information, Computation and Communication (QICC-2005), IIT Kharagpur, India, February 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503068
abstract: ``The purpose of life is to obtain knowledge, use it to live with as much satisfaction as possible, and pass it on with improvements and modifications to the next generation.'' This may sound philosophical, and the interpretation of words may be subjective, yet it is fairly clear that this is what all living organisms--from bacteria to human beings--do in their life time. Indeed, this can be adopted as the information theoretic definition of life. Over billions of years, biological evolution has experimented with a wide range of physical systems for acquiring, processing and communicating information. We are now in a position to make the principles behind these systems mathematically precise, and then extend them as far as laws of physics permit. Therein lies the future of computation, of ourselves, and of life.

id: quant-ph/0503069
title: Optical implementability of the two-dimensional Quantum Walk
authors: Eugenio Roldan, J.C. Soriano
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 52 (2005) 2649-2657
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503069
abstract: We propose an optical cavity implementation of the two-dimensional coined quantum walk on the line. The implementation makes use of only classical resources, and is tunable in the sense that a large number of different unitary transformations can be implemented by tuning some parameters of the device.

id: quant-ph/0503070
title: Simple test for quantum channel capacity
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Marcin L. Nowakowski
comments: 6 pages, no figures, RevTeX4. Signifficantly corrected version. Claim on continuity of channel capacities removed due to flaw in the corresponding proof. Changes and corrections performed in the part proposing a new upper bound on one-way distillable etanglement which happens to be not one-way entanglement monotone
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 135306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503070
abstract: Basing on states and channels isomorphism we point out that semidefinite programming can be used as a quick test for nonzero one-way quantum channel capacity. This can be achieved by search of symmetric extensions of states isomorphic to a given quantum channel. With this method we provide examples of quantum channels that can lead to high entanglement transmission but still have zero one-way capacity, in particular, regions of symmetric extendibility for isotropic states in arbitrary dimensions are presented. Further we derive {\it a new entanglement parameter} based on (normalised) relative entropy distance to the set of states that have symmetric extensions and show explicitly the symmetric extension of isotropic states being the nearest to singlets in the set of symmetrically extendible states. The suitable regularisation of the parameter provides a new upper bound on one-way distillable entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0503071
title: Long-range interactions and entanglement of slow single-photon pulses
authors: Inbal Friedler, David Petrosyan, Michael Fleischhauer, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043803 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503071
abstract: We show that very large nonlocal nonlinear interactions between pairs of colliding slow-light pulses can be realized in atomic vapors in the regime of electromagnetically induced transparency. These nonlinearities are mediated by strong, long-range dipole--dipole interactions between Rydberg states of the multi-level atoms in a ladder configuration. In contrast to previously studied schemes, this mechanism can yield a homogeneous conditional phase shift of pi even for weakly focused single-photon pulses, thereby allowing a deterministic realization of the photonic phase gate.

id: quant-ph/0503072
title: Limit points of the monotonic schemes
authors: Julien Salomon
comments: 5 pages, 0 figure, 44th IEEE conference on Decision and Control Sevilla december 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503072
abstract: Many numerical simulations in quantum (bilinear) control use the monotonically convergent algorithms of Krotov (introduced by Tannor), Zhu & Rabitz or the general form of Maday & Turinici. This paper presents an analysis of the limit set of controls provided by these algorithms and a proof of convergence in a particular case.

id: quant-ph/0503073
title: Quantum Erasure: Quantum Interference Revisited
authors: Stephen P. Walborn, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha, Sebasti?o Pdua, Carlos H. Monken
comments: 8 pages. Original unedited and unillustrated version of article in American Scientist magazine
journal: American Scientist 91, 336-343 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503073
abstract: Recent experiments in quantum optics have shed light on the foundations of quantum physics. Quantum erasers - modified quantum interference experiments - show that quantum entanglement is responsible for the complementarity principle.

id: quant-ph/0503074
title: On the limit cycle for the 1/r^2 potential in momentum space
authors: H.-W. Hammer, Brian G. Swingle
comments: 12 pages, 6 ps figures, revtex4
journal: Annals Phys. 321 (2006) 306-317
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503074
abstract: The renormalization of the attractive 1/r^2 potential has recently been studied using a variety of regulators. In particular, it was shown that renormalization with a square well in position space allows multiple solutions for the depth of the square well, including, but not requiring a renormalization group limit cycle. Here, we consider the renormalization of the 1/r^2 potential in momentum space. We regulate the problem with a momentum cutoff and absorb the cutoff dependence using a momentum-independent counterterm potential. The strength of this counterterm is uniquely determined and runs on a limit cycle. We also calculate the bound state spectrum and scattering observables, emphasizing the manifestation of the limit cycle in these observables.

id: quant-ph/0503075
title: SUSY transformations between digonalizable and non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians
authors: B F Samsonov
comments: 
journal: An extended version is published in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L397--L403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503075
abstract: Recently (see quant-ph/0503040) an explicit example has been given of a PT-symmetric non-diagonalizable Hamiltonian. In this paper we show that such Hamiltonians appear as supersymmetric (SUSY) partners of Hermitian (hence diagonalizable) Hamiltonians and they can be turned back to diagonalizable forms by appropriate SUSY transformations.

id: quant-ph/0503076
title: k-Component q-deformed charge coherent states and their nonclassical properties
authors: X.-M. Liu, C. Quesne, F. Song
comments: LaTeX, 29 pages, 2 Postscript figures, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503076
abstract: k-Component q-deformed charge coherent states are constructed, their (over)completeness proved and their generation explored. The q-deformed charge coherent states and the even (odd) q-deformed charge coherent states are the two special cases of them as k becomes 1 and 2, respectively. A D-algebra realization of the SU$_q$(1,1) generators is given in terms of them. Their nonclassical properties are studied and it is shown that for $k\geq3$, they exhibit two-mode q-antibunching, but neither SU$_q$(1,1) squeezing, nor one- or two-mode q-squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0503077
title: A quantum measure of coherence and incompatibility
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 19 GS pages; supercedes quant-ph/0309211
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General 38, 2959 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503077
abstract: The well-known two-slit interference is understood as a special relation between observable (localization at the slits) and state (being on both slits). Relation between an observable and a quantum state is investigated in the general case. It is assumed that the amount of ceherence equals that of incompatibility between observable and state. On ground of this, an argument is peresented that leads to a natural quantum measure of coherence, called "coherence or incompatibility information". Its properties are studied in detail making use of 'the mixing property of relative entropy' derived in this article. A precise relation between the measure of coherence of an observable and that of its coarsening is obtained and discussed from the intutitive point of view. Convexity of the measure is proved, and thus the fact that it is an information entity is established. A few more detailed properties of coherence information are derived with a view to investigate final-state entanglement in general repeatable measurement, and, more importantly, general bipartite entanglement in follow ups of this study.

id: quant-ph/0503078
title: Quantum walks on Cayley graphs
authors: O. Lopez Acevedo, T. Gobron
comments: J. Phys. A (accepted for publication)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 585-599
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503078
abstract: We address the problem of the construction of quantum walks on Cayley graphs. Our main motivation is the relationship between quantum algorithms and quantum walks. In particular, we discuss the choice of the dimension of the local Hilbert space and consider various classes of graphs on which the structure of quantum walks may differ. We completely characterise quantum walks on free groups and present partial results on more general cases. Some examples are given, including a family of quantum walks on the hypercube involving a Clifford Algebra.

id: quant-ph/0503079
title: Entanglement in SO(3)-invariant bipartite quantum systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A71, 062330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503079
abstract: The structure of the state spaces of bipartite (N tensor N) quantum systems which are invariant under product representations of the group SO(3) of three-dimensional proper rotations is analyzed. The subsystems represent particles of arbitrary spin j which transform according to an irreducible representation of the rotation group. A positive map theta is introduced which describes the time reversal symmetry of the local states and which is unitarily equivalent to the transposition of matrices. It is shown that the partial time reversal transformation theta_2 = (I tensor theta) acting on the composite system can be expressed in terms of the invariant 6-j symbols introduced by Wigner into the quantum theory of angular momentum. This fact enables a complete geometrical construction of the manifold of states with positive partial transposition and of the sets of separable and entangled states of (4 tensor 4) systems. The separable states are shown to form a three-dimensional prism and a three-dimensional manifold of bound entangled states is identified. A positive maps is obtained which yields, together with the time reversal, a necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of states of (4 tensor 4) systems. The relations to the reduction criterion and to the recently proposed cross norm criterion for separability are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0503080
title: The Partition Function for the Anharmonic Oscillator in the Strong-Coupling Regime
authors: N. F. Svaiter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503080
abstract: We consider a single anharmonic oscillator with frequency $\omega$ and coupling constant $\lambda$ respectively, in the strong-coupling regime. We are assuming that the system is in thermal equilibrium with a reservoir at temperature $\beta^{-1}$. Using the strong-coupling perturbative expansion, we obtain the partition function for the oscillator in the regime $\lambda>>\omega$, up to the order $\frac{1}{\sqrt{\lambda}}$. To obtain this result, we use of a combination of Klauder's independent-value generating functional (Acta Phys. Austr. {\bf 41}, 237 (1975)), and the generalized zeta-function method. The free energy and the mean energy, up to the order $\frac{1}{\sqrt{\lambda}}$, are also presented. We are showing that the thermodynamics quantities are nonanalytic in the coupling constant.

id: quant-ph/0503081
title: Dissipative quantum chaos: transition from wave packet collapse to explosion
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Giuliano Benenti, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 164101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503081
abstract: Using the quantum trajectories approach we study the quantum dynamics of a dissipative chaotic system described by the Zaslavsky map. For strong dissipation the quantum wave function in the phase space collapses onto a compact packet which follows classical chaotic dynamics and whose area is proportional to the Planck constant. At weak dissipation the exponential instability of quantum dynamics on the Ehrenfest time scale dominates and leads to wave packet explosion. The transition from collapse to explosion takes place when the dissipation time scale exceeds the Ehrenfest time. For integrable nonlinear dynamics the explosion practically disappears leaving place to collapse.

id: quant-ph/0503082
title: Compatibility and Separability for Classical and Quantum Entanglement
authors: Diederik Aerts, Christian de Ronde, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, submitted to International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: In D. Aerts, J. Broekaert, B. D'Hooghe and N. Note (Eds.), Worldviews, Science and Us: Bridging Knowledge and Its Implications for Our Perspectives of the World. Singapore: World Scientific, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503082
abstract: We study the concepts of compatibility and separability and their implications for quantum and classical systems. These concepts are illustrated on a macroscopic model for the singlet state of a quantum system of two entangled spin 1/2 with a parameter reflecting indeterminism in the measurement procedure. By varying this parameter we describe situations from quantum, intermediate to classical and study which tests are compatible or separated. We prove that for classical deterministic systems the concepts of separability and compatibility coincide, but for quantum systems and intermediate systems these concepts are generally different.

id: quant-ph/0503083
title: Decomposition Theorem for State Property Systems
authors: Diederik Aerts, Didier Deses, Bart D'Hooghe
comments: 8 pages, submitted to International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503083
abstract: We prove a decomposition theorem for orthocomplemented state property systems. More specifically we prove that an orthocomplemented state property system is isomorphic to the direct union of the non classical components of this state property system over the state space of the classical state property system of this state property system.

id: quant-ph/0503084
title: One- and two-dimensional quantum walks in arrays of optical traps
authors: K. Eckert, J. Mompart, G. Birkl, M. Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; v2: some comments added and other minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503084
abstract: We propose a novel implementation of discrete time quantum walks for a neutral atom in an array of optical microtraps or an optical lattice. We analyze a one-dimensional walk in position space, with the coin, the additional qubit degree of freedom that controls the displacement of the quantum walker, implemented as a spatially delocalized qubit, i.e., the coin is also encoded in position space. We analyze the dependence of the quantum walk on temperature and experimental imperfections as shaking in the trap positions. Finally, combining a spatially delocalized qubit and a hyperfine qubit, we also give a scheme to realize a quantum walk on a two-dimensional square lattice with the possibility of implementing different coin operators.

id: quant-ph/0503085
title: Spectral Narrowing via Quantum Coherence
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Aihua Zhang, M. Suhail Zubairy, Marlan O. Scully, George R. Welch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 013807 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503085
abstract: We have studied the transmission of an optically thick Rb vapor that is illuminated by monochromatic and noise broaden laser fields in Lambda configuration. The spectral width of the beat signal between the two fields after transmission through the atomic medium is more than 1000 times narrower than the spectral width of this signal before the medium.

id: quant-ph/0503086
title: Sudden switching in qubits
authors: Kh. Kh. Shakov, J. H. McGuire, L. Kaplan, D. Uskov, A. Chalastaras
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 1361-1378
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503086
abstract: Analytic solutions are developed for two-state systems (e.g. qubits) strongly perturbed by a series of rapidly changing pulses, called `kicks'. The evolution matrix may be expressed as a time ordered product of evolution matrices for single kicks. Single, double, and triple kicks are explicitly considered, and the onset of observability of time ordering is examined. The effects of different order of kicks on the dynamics of the system are studied and compared with effects of time ordering in general. To determine the range of validity of this approach, the effect of using pulses of finite widths for 2s-2p transitions in atomic hydrogen is examined numerically.

id: quant-ph/0503087
title: Quantum anharmonic oscillators: a new approach
authors: F. J. Gomez, J. Sesma
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 3193-3202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503087
abstract: The determination of the eigenenergies of a quantum anharmonic oscillator consists merely in finding the zeros of a function of the energy, namely the Wronskian of two solutions of the Schroedinger equation which are regular respectively at the origin and at infinity. We show in this paper how to evaluate that Wronskian exactly, except for numerical rounding errors. The procedure is illustrated by application to the gx2+x2N (N a positive integer) oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0503088
title: Remote Preparation of Mixed States via Noisy Entanglement
authors: Guo-Yong Xiang, Jian Li, Bo Yu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Proc. of SPIE Vol.5631-23, 112; Phys. Rev. A 72, 012315 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503088
abstract: We present a practical and general scheme of remote preparation for pure and mixed state, in which an auxiliary qubit and controlled-NOT gate are used. We discuss the remote state preparation (RSP) in two important types of decoherent channel (depolarizing and dephaseing). In our experiment, we realize RSP in the dephaseing channel by using spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC), linear optical elements and single photon detector.

id: quant-ph/0503089
title: Evolution from Entanglement to Decoherence of Bipartite Mixed "X" States
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, version 3, some minor changes have been made
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7, 459-468 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503089
abstract: We examine a class of bipartite mixed states which we call X states and report several analytic results related to the occurrence of so-called entanglement sudden death (ESD) under time evolution in the presence of common types of environmental noise. Avoidance of sudden death by application of purely local operations is shown to be feasible in some cases.

id: quant-ph/0503090
title: Teleporting a rotation on remote photons
authors: Guo-Yong Xiang, Jian Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 71, 044304 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503090
abstract: Quamtum remote rotation allows implement local quantum operation on remote systems with shared entanglement. Here we report an experimental demonstration of remote rotation on single photons using linear optical element. And the local dephase is also teleported during the process. The scheme can be generalized to any controlled rotation commutes with $\sigma_{z}$.

id: quant-ph/0503091
title: The generalized coherent states for oscillators, Connected with Meixner and Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials % %
authors: V.V.Borzov, E.V.Damaskinsky
comments: 
journal: Zapski Nauchn. Semin. POMI, v.317, p.66, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503091
abstract: The investigation of the generalized coherent states for oscillator-like systems connected with given family of orthogonal polynomials is continued. In this work we consider oscillators connected with Meixner and Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials and define generalized coherent states for these oscillators. The completeness condition for these states is proved by the solution of the related classical moment problem. The results are compared with the other authors ones. In particular, we show that the Hamiltonian of the relativistic model of linear harmonic oscillator can be thought of as the linearization of the quadratic Hamiltonian which naturally arised in our formalism.

id: quant-ph/0503092
title: Bipartite subspaces having no LOCC-distinguishable bases
authors: John Watrous
comments: 12 pages. Two references added in version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503092
abstract: It is proved that there exist subspaces of bipartite tensor product spaces that have no orthonormal bases that can be perfectly distinguished by means of LOCC protocols. A corollary of this fact is that there exist quantum channels having sub-optimal classical capacity even when the receiver may communicate classically with a third party that represents the channel's environment.

id: quant-ph/0503093
title: Could a Classical Probability Theory Describe Quantum Systems?
authors: Jinshan Wu, Shouyong Pei
comments: 13 pages, no fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503093
abstract: Quantum Mechanics (QM) is a quantum probability theory based on the density matrix. The possibility of applying classical probability theory, which is based on the probability distribution function(PDF), to describe quantum systems is investigated in this work. In a sense this is also the question about the possibility of a Hidden Variable Theory (HVT) of Quantum Mechanics. Unlike Bell's inequality, which need to be checked experimentally, here HVT is ruled out by theoretical consideration. The approach taken here is to construct explicitly the most general HVT, which agrees with all results from experiments on quantum systems (QS), and to check its validity and acceptability. Our list of experimental facts of quantum objects, which all quantum theories are required to respect, includes facts on repeat quantum measurement. We show that it plays an essential role at showing that it is very unlikely that a classical theory can successfully reproduce all QS facts, even for a single spin-1/2 object. We also examine and rule out Bell's HVT and Bohm's HVT based on the same consideration.

id: quant-ph/0503094
title: Theory of Games on Quantum Objects
authors: Jinshan Wu
comments: 4 pages, no fig, Equ(7) is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503094
abstract: Effect of replacing the classical game object with a quantum object is analyzed. We find this replacement requires a throughout reformation of the framework of Game Theory. If we use density matrix to represent strategy state of players, they are full-structured density matrices with off-diagonal elements for the new games, while reduced diagonal density matrix will be enough for the traditional games on classical objects. In such formalism, the payoff function of every player becomes Hermitian Operator acting on the density matrix. Therefore, the new game looks really like Quantum Mechanics while the traditional game becomes Classical Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0503095
title: The Power of Strong Fourier Sampling: Quantum Algorithms for Affine Groups and Hidden Shifts
authors: Cristopher Moore, Daniel Rockmore, Alexander Russell, Leonard J. Schulman
comments: Submitted journal version of our SODA 2004 paper; supersedes quant-ph/0211124. This version includes a fair amount of new material, including a section on random vs. adapted bases and a section applying the algorithm for finding hidden conjugate subgroups in A_p to hidden shift problems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503095
abstract: Many quantum algorithms, including Shor's celebrated factoring and discrete log algorithms, proceed by reduction to a Hidden Subgroup problem, in which an unknown subgroup H of a group G must be determined from a uniform superposition on a left coset of H. These hidden subgroup problems are typically solved by Fourier sampling. When G is nonabelian, two important variants of Fourier sampling have been identified: the weak standard method, where only representation names are measured, and the strong standard method, where full measurement (i.e., the row and column of the representation, in a suitably chosen basis) occurs. It has remained open whether the strong standard method is indeed stronger. In this article, we settle this question in the affirmative. We show that hidden subgroups H of the q-hedral groups, i.e., semidirect products Z_q \ltimes Z_p where q | (p-1), and in particular the affine groups A_p, can be information-theoretically reconstructed using the strong standard method. Moreover, if |H| = p/ \polylog(p), these subgroups can be fully reconstructed with a polynomial amount of quantum and classical computation. We show that, for some q, neither the ``forgetful'' abelian method nor measuring in a random basis succeeds, even information-theoretically. Thus, at least for some groups, it is crucial to use the full power of representation theory: namely, to measure the high-dimensional representations in an adapted basis that respects the group's subgroup structure. We apply our algorithm for the hidden subgroup problem to new families of cryptographically motivated Hidden Shift problems, generalizing work of van Dam, Hallgren and Ip on shifts of multiplicative characters.

id: quant-ph/0503096
title: On multiparticle W states, their implementations and applications in quantum information problems
authors: V.N. Gorbachev, A.I. Trubilko
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Laser Laser Physics Review, replaced with revised version
journal: Laser Phys. Lett.3,No.2,59-70 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503096
abstract: Large number of multimode entangled states of light generated in down conversion processes belongs to a collection which is natural generalization of the W class. A brief overview of these states, schemes for their preparation, experimental implementations and possible applications are presented.

id: quant-ph/0503097
title: One-dimensional relativistic dissipative system with constant force and its quantization
authors: Gustavo Lpez, Xaman-Ek Lpez, Hector Hernndez
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Volume 45, Issue 4, pp.724-733 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503097
abstract: For a relativistic particle under a constant force and a linear velocity dissipation force, a constant of motion is found. Problems are shown for getting the Hamiltoninan of this system. Thus, the quantization of this system is carried out through the constant of motion and using the quantization of the velocity variable. The dissipative relativistic quantum bouncer is outlined within this quantization approach.

id: quant-ph/0503098
title: New measure of electron correlation
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Norbert J. Mauser
comments: Final version to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503098
abstract: We propose to quantify the "correlation" inherent in a many-electron (or many-fermion) wavefunction by comparing it to the unique uncorrelated state that has the same single-particle density operator as it does.

id: quant-ph/0503099
title: Quantum entanglement and quantum nonlocality for $N$-photon entangled states
authors: Yan-Hua Sun, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503099
abstract: Quantum entanglement and quantum nonlocality of $N$-photon entangled states $|\psi_{N m}> =\mathcal{N}_{m}[\cos\gamma|N-m>_{1}|m>_{2} +e^{i\theta_{m}}\sin\gamma|m>_{1}|N-m>_{2}]$ and their superpositions are studied. We indicate that the relative phase $\theta_{m}$ affects quantum nonlocality but not quantum entanglement for the state $|\psi_{N m}>$. We show that quantum nonlocality can be controlled and manipulated by adjusting the state parameters of $|\psi_{N m}>$, superposition coefficients, and the azimuthal angles of the Bell operator. We also show that the violation of the Bell inequality can reach its maximal value under certain conditions. It is found that quantum superpositions based on $|\psi_{N m}>$ can increase the amount of entanglement, and give more ways to reach the maximal violation of the Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0503100
title: Picture Invariance in Quantum Optics
authors: W.-Y. Hwang
comments: 4 pages, RevTex
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 53, 486 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503100
abstract: We clarify the controversy over the coherent-state (CS) versus the number-state (NS) pictures in quantum optics. The NS picture is equivalent to the CS picture, as long as the phases $\phi$ in the laser fields are randomly distributed, as M{\o}lmer argues [\pra {\bf 55}, 3195 (1997)]. However, the claim by Rudolph and Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 077903 (2001)] has a few gaps. First, they make an assumption that is not necessarily true in the calculation of a density operator involved with a two-mode squeezed state. We show that there exists entanglement in the density operator without defying the assumption that phases are randomly distributed. Moreover, using a concept of picture-invariance, we argue that it is not that criteria for quantum teleportation are not satisfied. We discuss an analogy between the controversy on the CS versus NS pictures to that on the heliocentric versus geocentric pictures.

id: quant-ph/0503101
title: Spectral implementation of some quantum algorithms by one- and two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Ranabir Das, Anil Kumar
comments: 39 pages,11 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 121, 7601 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503101
abstract: Quantum information processing has been effectively demonstrated on a small number of qubits by nuclear magnetic resonance. An important subroutine in any computing is the readout of the output. ``Spectral implementation'' originally suggested by Z.L. Madi, R. Bruschweiler and R.R. Ernst, [J. Chem. Phys. 109, 10603 (1999)], provides an elegant method of readout with the use of an extra `observer' qubit. At the end of computation, detection of the observer qubit provides the output via the multiplet structure of its spectrum. In "spectral implementation" by two-dimensional experiment the observer qubit retains the memory of input state during computation, thereby providing correlated information on input and output, in the same spectrum. "Spectral implementation" of Grover's search algorithm, approximate quantum counting, a modified version of Berstein-Vazirani problem, and Hogg's algorithm is demonstrated here in three and four-qubit systems.

id: quant-ph/0503102
title: Observability of the arrival time distribution using spin-rotator as a quantum clock
authors: Alok Kumar Pan, Md. Manirul Ali, Dipankar Home
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 352(2006) 296-303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503102
abstract: An experimentally realizable scheme is formulated which can test any postulated quantum mechanical approach for calculating the arrival time distribution. This is specifically illustrated by using the modulus of the probability current density for calculating the arrival time distribution of spin-1/2 neutral particles at the exit point of a spin-rotator(SR) which contains a constant magnetic field. Such a calculated time distribution is then used for evaluating the distribution of spin orientations along different directions for these particles emerging from the SR. Based on this, the result of spin measurement along any arbitrary direction for such an ensemble is predicted.

id: quant-ph/0503103
title: Schwarz inequality and concurrence
authors: Hoshang Heydari, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 6 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 6 (2006) 455-460
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503103
abstract: We establish a relation between the Schwarz inequality and the generalized concurrence of an arbitrary, pure, bipartite or tripartite state. This relation places concurrence in a geometrical and functional-analytical setting.

id: quant-ph/0503104
title: Photon subtracted states and enhancement of nonlocality in the presence of noise
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclass. Opt. 7, S392 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503104
abstract: We address nonlocality of continuous variable systems in the presence of dissipation and noise. Three nonlocality tests have been considered, based on the measurement of displaced-parity, field-quadrature and pseudospin-operator, respectively. Nonlocality of twin beam has been investigated, as well as that of its non-Gaussian counterparts obtained by inconclusive subtraction of photons. Our results indicate that: i) nonlocality of twin beam is degraded but not destroyed by noise; ii) photon subtraction enhances nonlocality in the presence of noise, especially in the low-energy regime.

id: quant-ph/0503105
title: Precise comparison of theory and new experiment for the Casimir force leads to stronger constraints on thermal quantum effects and long-range interactions
authors: R. S. Decca, D. Lopez, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 43 pages, 15 figures, elsart.cls is used. Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics. (Several misprints in the text are corrected.)
journal: Annals Phys. 318 (2005) 37-80
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503105
abstract: We report an improved dynamic determination of the Casimir pressure between two plane plates obtained using a micromachined torsional oscillator. The main improvements in the current experiment are a significant suppression of the surface roughness of the Au layers deposited on the interacting surfaces, and a decrease in the experimental error in the measurement of the absolute separation. A metrological analysis of all data permitted us to determine both the random and systematic errors, and to find the total experimental error as a function of separation at the 95% confidence level. In contrast to all previous experiments on the Casimir effect, our smallest experimental error ($\sim 0.5$%) is achieved over a wide separation range. The theoretical Casimir pressures in the experimental configuration were calculated by the use of four theoretical approaches suggested in the literature. All corrections to the Casimir force were calculated or estimated. All theoretical errors were analyzed and combined to obtain the total theoretical error at the 95% confidence level. Finally, the confidence interval for the differences between theoretical and experimental pressures was obtained as a function of separation. Our measurements are found to be consistent with two theoretical approaches utilizing the plasma model and the surface impedance over the entire measurement region. Two other approaches to the thermal Casimir force, utilizing the Drude model or a special prescription for the determination of the zero-frequency contribution to the Lifshitz formula, are excluded on the basis of our measurements at the 99% and 95% confidence levels, respectively. Finally, constraints on Yukawa-type hypothetical interactions are strengthened by up to a factor of 20 in a wide interaction range.

id: quant-ph/0503106
title: Entanglement manipulation for mixed states in a multilevel atom interacting with a cavity field
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, M. R. B. Wahiddin, A.-S. F. Obada
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503106
abstract: We derive an explicit formula for an entanglement measure of mixed quantum states in a multi-level atom interacting with a cavity field within the framework of the quantum mutual entropy. We describe its theoretical basis and discuss its practical relevance (especially in comparison with already known pure state results). The effect of the number of levels involved on the entanglement is demonstrated via examples of three-, four- and five-level atom. Numerical calculations under current experimental conditions are performed and it is found that the number of levels present changes the general features of entanglement dramatically.

id: quant-ph/0503107
title: Engineering massive quantum memories by topologically time-modulated spin rings
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, A. Di Lisi, S. De Siena
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Laser Physics 16, 1411 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503107
abstract: We introduce a general scheme to realize perfect storage of quantum information in systems of interacting qubits. This novel approach is based on {\it global} external controls of the Hamiltonian, that yield time-periodic inversions in the dynamical evolution, allowing a perfect periodic quantum state recontruction. We illustrate the method in the particularly interesting and simple case of spin systems affected by XY residual interactions with or without static imperfections. The global control is achieved by step time-inversions of an overall topological phase of the Aharonov-Bohm type. Such a scheme holds both at finite size and in the thermodynamic limit, thus enabling the massive storage of arbitrarily large numbers of local states, and is stable against several realistic sources of noise and imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0503108
title: Local Instruction-Set Model for the Experiment of Pan et al
authors: Manuel Aschwanden, Walter Philipp, Karl Hess, Salvador Barraza-Lopez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503108
abstract: We present a modified local realistic model, based on instruction sets that can be used to approximately reproduce the data of the Pan et al experiment. The data of our model are closer to the results of the actual experiment by Pan et al than the predictions of their quantum mechanical model. As a consequence the experimental results can not be used to support their claim that quantum nonlocality has been proven.

id: quant-ph/0503109
title: On the role of Planck's oscillator in the construction of Heisenberg's mechanics
authors: Budh Ram
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503109
abstract: In the present note we elucidate how physical considerations based on Planck's oscillator led to the construction of Heisenberg's mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0503110
title: Propagation of Light in an Ensemble of "3+1"-Level Atoms
authors: Yong Li, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503110
abstract: We study the propagation of a quantum probe light in an ensemble of "3+1"-level atoms when the atoms are coupled to two other classical control fields. First we calculate the dispersion properties, such as susceptibility and group velocity, of the probe light within such an atomic medium under the case of three-photon resonance via the dynamical algebra method of collective atomic excitations. Then we calculate the dispersion of the probe light not only under the case that two classical control fields have the same detunings to the relative atomic transitions but also under the case that they have the different detunings. Our results show in both cases the phenomenon of electromagnetically induced transparency can accur. Especially use the second case, we can find two transparency windows for the probe light.

id: quant-ph/0503111
title: Conditional generation of arbitrary single-mode quantum states of light by repeated photon subtractions
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Raul Garcia-Patron, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 033822 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503111
abstract: We propose a scheme for the conditional generation of arbitrary finite superpositions of (squeezed) Fock states in a single mode of a traveling optical field. The suggested setup requires only a source of squeezed states, beam splitters, strong coherent beams, and photodetectors with single-photon sensitivity. The method does not require photodetectors with a high efficiency nor with a single-photon resolution.

id: quant-ph/0503112
title: Necessity of Combining Mutually Incompatible Perspectives in the Construction of a Global View: Quantum Probability and Signal Analysis
authors: Sven Aerts, Diederik Aerts, Franklin E. Schroeck
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: In D. Aerts, B. D'Hooghe and N. Note (Eds.), Worldviews, Science and Us: Redemarcating Knowledge and Its Social and Ethical Implications. Singapore: World Scientific (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503112
abstract: The scientific fields of quantum mechanics and signal-analysis originated within different settings, aimed at different goals and started from different scientific paradigms. Yet the development of the two subjects has become increasingly intertwined. We argue that these similarities are rooted in the fact that both fields of scientific inquiry had to deal with finding a single description for a phenomenon that yields complete information about itself only when we consider mutually incompatible accounts of that phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0503113
title: Micro-Anthropic Principle for Quantum theory
authors: Brandon Carter
comments: 29 pages Latex, 1 figure. Contribution to `Universe or Multiverse?' ed. B.J. Carr, for Cambridge U.P
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503113
abstract: Probabilistic models (developped by workers such as Boltzmann, on foundations due to pioneers such as Bayes) were commonly regarded merely as approximations to a deterministic reality before the roles were reversed by the quantum revolution (under the leadership of Heisenberg and Dirac) whereby it was the deterministic description that was reduced to the status of an approximation, while the role of the observer became particularly prominent. The concomitant problem of lack of objectivity in the original Copenhagen interpretation has not been satisfactorily resolved in newer approaches of the kind pioneered by Everett. The deficiency of such interpretations is attributable to failure to allow for the anthropic aspect of the problem, meaning {\it a priori} uncertainty about the identity of the observer. The required reconciliation of subjectivity with objectivity is achieved here by distinguishing the concept of an observer from that of a perceptor, whose chances of identification with a particular observer need to be prescribed by a suitable anthropic principle. It is proposed that this should be done by an entropy ansatz according to which the relevant micro-anthropic weighting is taken to be proportional to the logarithm of the relevant number of Everett type branch-channels.

id: quant-ph/0503114
title: On the Power of Random Bases in Fourier Sampling: Hidden Subgroup Problem in the Heisenberg Group
authors: Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, Martin Roetteler, Pranab Sen
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX
journal: Proceedings 32nd International Conference on Automata, Languages, and Programming (ICALP 2005), Lisbon, Portugal, Springer LNCS, pp. 1399-1411, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503114
abstract: The hidden subgroup problem (HSP) provides a unified framework to study problems of group-theoretical nature in quantum computing such as order finding and the discrete logarithm problem. While it is known that Fourier sampling provides an efficient solution in the abelian case, not much is known for general non-abelian groups. Recently, some authors raised the question as to whether post-processing the Fourier spectrum by measuring in a random orthonormal basis helps for solving the HSP. Several negative results on the shortcomings of this random strong method are known. In this paper however, we show that the random strong method can be quite powerful under certain conditions on the group G. We define a parameter r(G) for a group G and show that O((\log |G| / r(G))^2) iterations of the random strong method give enough classical information to identify a hidden subgroup in G. We illustrate the power of the random strong method via a concrete example of the HSP over finite Heisenberg groups. We show that r(G) = \Omega(1) for these groups; hence the HSP can be solved using polynomially many random strong Fourier samplings followed by a possibly exponential classical post-processing without further queries. The quantum part of our algorithm consists of a polynomial computation followed by measuring in a random orthonormal basis. This gives the first example of a group where random representation bases do help in solving the HSP and for which no explicit representation bases are known that solve the problem with (\log G)^O(1) Fourier samplings. As an interesting by-product of our work, we get an algorithm for solving the state identification problem for a set of nearly orthogonal pure quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0503115
title: On Quantum Interference: No Decoherence From an Actual Movable Mirror
authors: Vladimir S. Mashkevich
comments: 13 pages, LATEX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503115
abstract: There exists a commonly accepted viewpoint that a movable mirror in an interferometer should cause interference breakdown due to a quantum jump to one of the two components of a photon mode. That effect goes back to Dirac. We argue that the conventional reasoning is inadequate: First, it would be more circumspect to interpret interference breakdown as being due to the entanglement of the photon with the mirror, not referring to quantum jumps. Second--and crucial--even in such an interpretation, the reasoning does not take into account the uncertainty of the mirror momentum. The effect of the entanglement and interference breakdown would take place if the uncertainty were much less than the recoil momentum, which is of the order of the photon momentum. However, an examination leads to the conclusion that for an actual mirror the opposite situation occurs. Thus there should be no such effect.

id: quant-ph/0503116
title: Entanglement Evolution in the Presence of Decoherence
authors: Jin Wang, Herman Batelaan, Jeremy Podany, Anthony F. Starace
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. The second version of this paper has been significantly expanded in response to referee comments. The revised manuscript has been accepted for publication in Journal of Physics B
journal: J.Phys. B 39, 4343-4353 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503116
abstract: The entanglement of two qubits, each defined as an effective two-level, spin 1/2 system, is investigated for the case that the qubits interact via a Heisenberg XY interaction and are subject to decoherence due to population relaxation and thermal effects. For zero temperature, the time dependent concurrence is studied analytically and numerically for some typical initial states, including a separable (unentangled) initial state. An analytical formula for non-zero steady state concurrence is found for any initial state, and optimal parameter values for maximizing steady state concurrence are given. The steady state concurrence is found analytically to remain non-zero for low, finite temperatures. We also identify the contributions of global and local coherence to the steady state entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0503117
title: Generation of a two-photon singlet beam
authors: W.A.T. Nogueira, S.P. Walborn, S. Pdua, C.H. Monken
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 92 (4): Art. No. 043602 JAN 30 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503117
abstract: Controlling the pump beam transverse profile in multimode Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, we generate a ''localized" two-photon singlet state, in which both photons propagate in the same beam. This type of multi-photon singlet beam may useful in quantum communication to avoid decoherence. We show that although the photons are part of the same beam, they are never in the same plane wave mode, which is characterized by spatial antibunching behavior in the plane normal to the propagation direction.

id: quant-ph/0503118
title: The classical limit of non-integrable quantum systems
authors: Mario Castagnino, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503118
abstract: The classical limit of non-integrable quantum systems is studied. We define non-integrable quantum systems as those which have, as their classical limit, a non-integrable classical system. In order to obtain this limit, the self-induced decoherence approach and the corresponding classical limit are generalized from integrable to non-integrable systems. In this approach, the lost of information, usually conceived as the result of a coarse-graining or the trace of an environment, is produced by a particular choice of the algebra of observables and the systematic use of mean values, that project the unitary evolution onto an effective non-unitary one. The decoherence times computed with this approach coincide with those of the literature. By means of our method, we can obtain the classical limit of the quantum state of a non-integrable system, which turns out to be a set of unstable, potentially chaotic classical trajectories contained in the Wigner transformation of the quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0503119
title: Extension maps
authors: Aik-meng Kuah, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503119
abstract: We define extension maps as maps that extend a system (through adding ancillary systems) without changing the state in the original system. We show, using extension maps, why a completely positive operation on an initially entangled system results in a non positive mapping of a subsystem. We also show that any trace preserving map, either positive or negative, can be decomposed in terms of an extension map and a completely positive map.

id: quant-ph/0503120
title: Limitations of practical multi-photon decoherence-free states
authors: Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012308 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503120
abstract: It is shown in this paper that decoherence-free subspace (DFS) of practical multi-photon polarization can not avoid the exponential decoherence even in the same extra-environment if the photons are frequency-anticorrelated. The reason lies in that the condition of collective decoherence is not satisfied in this case. As an example, the evolution of biphoton's decoherence-free state is given. Possible solution for feasible multi-photon's DFS state is also given.

id: quant-ph/0503121
title: Dissipation of quantum information near the event horizon of Schwarzschild black holes
authors: D. Ahn, S. W. Hwang
comments: Major revision with a new figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503121
abstract: We found that the Wigner rotation of a particle with spin 1/2, which is unitary in Minkowski spacetime, becomes non-unitary as the particle is falling onto the black hole. This implies that, from the quantum information processing point of view, any quantum information encoded in spins will be dissipated near the black hole. The gravitational field around the black hole thus acts like a dissipative quantum channel, especially the bit flip channel.

id: quant-ph/0503122
title: Correlated two-photon imaging with true thermal light
authors: Da Zhang, Xi-Hao Chen, Yan-Hua Zhai, Ling-An Wu
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503122
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of two-photon correlated imaging with true thermal light from a hollow cathode lamp. The coherence time of the source is much shorter than that of previous experiments using random scattered light from a laser. A two-pinhole mask was used as object, and the corresponding thin lens equation was well satisfied. Since thermal light sources are easier to obtain and measure than entangled light it is conceivable that they may be used in special imaging applications.

id: quant-ph/0503123
title: Entanglement in SU(2)-invariant quantum systems: The positive partial transpose criterion and others
authors: John Schliemann
comments: 7 pages, no figures, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503123
abstract: We study entanglement in mixed bipartite quantum states which are invariant under simultaneous SU(2) transformations in both subsystems. Previous results on the behavior of such states under partial transposition are substantially extended. The spectrum of the partial transpose of a given SU(2)-invariant density matrix $\rho$ is entirely determined by the diagonal elements of $\rho$ in a basis of tensor-product states of both spins with respect to a common quantization axis. We construct a set of operators which act as entanglement witnesses on SU(2)-invariant states. A sufficient criterion for $\rho$ having a negative partial transpose is derived in terms of a simple spin correlator. The same condition is a necessary criterion for the partial transpose to have the maximum number of negative eigenvalues. Moreover, we derive a series of sum rules which uniquely determine the eigenvalues of the partial transpose in terms of a system of linear equations. Finally we compare our findings with other entanglement criteria including the reduction criterion, the majorization criterion, and the recently proposed local uncertainty relations.

id: quant-ph/0503124
title: Notes on Polarization Measurements
authors: A. Aiello, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503124
abstract: We review a few useful concepts about polarization measurements in the quantum domain. Using a perfectly general formalism, we show how to build the quantum counterpart of some classical quantities like Stokes parameters and Mueller matrices, which are well known in classical polarization-measurement theory.

id: quant-ph/0503125
title: Limits in the characteristic function description of non-Lindblad-type open quantum systems
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: Revised version. 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 024103 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503125
abstract: In this paper I investigate the usability of the characteristic functions for the description of the dynamics of open quantum systems focussing on non-Lindblad-type master equations. I consider, as an example, a non-Markovian generalized master equation containing a memory kernel which may lead to nonphysical time evolutions characterized by negative values of the density matrix diagonal elements [S.M. Barnett and S. Stenholm, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 64}, 033808 (2001)]. The main result of the paper is to demonstrate that there exist situations in which the symmetrically ordered characteristic function is perfectly well defined while the corresponding density matrix loses positivity. Therefore nonphysical situations may not show up in the characteristic function. As a consequence, the characteristic function cannot be considered an {\it alternative complete} description of the non-Lindblad dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0503126
title: Experimental One-Way Quantum Computing
authors: P.Walther, K.J.Resch, T.Rudolph, E.Schenck, H.Weinfurter, V.Vedral, M.Aspelmeyer, A.Zeilinger
comments: 36 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature 434, 169-176 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503126
abstract: Standard quantum computation is based on sequences of unitary quantum logic gates which process qubits. The one-way quantum computer proposed by Raussendorf and Briegel is entirely different. It has changed our understanding of the requirements for quantum computation and more generally how we think about quantum physics. This new model requires qubits to be initialized in a highly-entangled cluster state. From this point, the quantum computation proceeds by a sequence of single-qubit measurements with classical feedforward of their outcomes. Because of the essential role of measurement a one-way quantum computer is irreversible. In the one-way quantum computer the order and choices of measurements determine the algorithm computed. We have experimentally realized four-qubit cluster states encoded into the polarization state of four photons. We fully characterize the quantum state by implementing the first experimental four-qubit quantum state tomography. Using this cluster state we demonstrate the feasibility of one-way quantum computing through a universal set of one- and two-qubit operations. Finally, our implementation of Grover's search algorithm demonstrates that one-way quantum computation is ideally suited for such tasks.

id: quant-ph/0503127
title: Revealing virtual processes in the phase space
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: Minor changes according to referees' suggestions
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, S398 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503127
abstract: The short time dynamics of a quantum Brownian particle in a harmonic potential is studied in the phase space. An exact non-Markovian analytic approach to calculate the time evolution of the Wigner function is presented. The dynamics of the Wigner function of an initially squeezed state is analyzed. It is shown that virtual exchanges of energy between the particle and the reservoir, characterizing the non-Lindblad short time dynamics where system-reservoir correlations are not negligible, show up in the phase space.

id: quant-ph/0503128
title: Cavity state preparation using adiabatic transfer
authors: Jonas Larson, Erika Andersson
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503128
abstract: We show how to prepare a variety of cavity field states for multiple cavities. The state preparation technique used is related to the method of stimulated adiabatic Raman passage or STIRAP. The cavity modes are coupled by atoms, making it possible to transfer an arbitrary cavity field state from one cavity to another, and also to prepare non-trivial cavity field states. In particular, we show how to prepare entangled states of two or more cavities, such as an EPR state and a W state, as well as various entangled superpositions of coherent states in different cavities, including Schrodinger cat states. The theoretical considerations are supported by numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0503129
title: Characterization of combinatorially independent permutation separability criteria
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Michal Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, corrected proof of rule 4
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 12, 331 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503129
abstract: The so-called permutation separability criteria are simple operational conditions that are necessary for separability of mixed states of multipartite systems: (1) permute the indices of the density matrix and (2) check if the trace norm of at least one of the resulting operators is greater than one. If it is greater than one then the state is necessarily entangled. A shortcoming of the permutation separability criteria is that many permutations give rise to dependent separability criteria. Therefore, we introduce a necessary condition for two permutations to yield independent criteria called combinatorical independence. This condition basically means that the map corresponding to one permutation cannot be obtained by concatenating the map corresponding to the second permutation with a norm-preserving map. We characterize completely combinatorically independent criteria, and determine simple permutations that represent all independent criteria. The representatives can be visualized by means of a simple graphical notation. They are composed of three basic operations: partial transpose, and two types of so-called reshufflings. In particular, for a four-partite system all criteria except one are composed of partial transpose and only one type of reshuffling; the exceptional one requires the second type of reshuffling. Furthermore, we show how to obtain efficiently for every permutation a simple representative. This method allows to check easily if two permutations are combinatorically equivalent or not.

id: quant-ph/0503130
title: Simple proof of fault tolerance in the graph-state model
authors: Panos Aliferis, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, REVTeX4. (v4): Minor revisions and new title; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503130
abstract: We consider the problem of fault tolerance in the graph-state model of quantum computation. Using the notion of composable simulations, we provide a simple proof for the existence of an accuracy threshold for graph-state computation by invoking the threshold theorem derived for quantum circuit computation. Lower bounds for the threshold in the graph-state model are then obtained from known bounds in the circuit model under the same noise process.

id: quant-ph/0503131
title: Entanglement in the scattering process by local impurity
authors: Dong Yang, Shi-Jian Gu, Haibin Li
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503131
abstract: We study entanglement in the scattering processes by fixed impurity and Kondo impurity. The fixed impurity plays a role as spin state filter that is employed to concentrate entanglement between the scattering particle and the unscattering particle. One Kondo impurity can entangle two noninteracting scattering particles while one scattering particle can entangle two separate noninteracting Kondo impurities.

id: quant-ph/0503132
title: Entanglement manipulation by a local magnetic pulse
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 361, 39 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503132
abstract: A scheme for controlling the entanglement of a two-qubit system by a local magnetic pulse is proposed. We show that the entanglement of the two-qubit system can be increased by sacrificing the coherence in ancillary degree of freedom, which is induced by a local manipulation.

id: quant-ph/0503133
title: Direct versus measurement assisted bipartite entanglement in multi-qubit systems and their dynamical generation in spin systems
authors: Matyas Koniorczyk, Peter Rapcan, Vladimir Buzek
comments: (14 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503133
abstract: We consider multi-qubit systems and relate quantitatively the problems of generating cluster states with high value of concurrence of assistance, and that of generating states with maximal bipartite entanglement. We prove an upper bound for the concurrence of assistance. We consider dynamics of spin-1/2 systems that model qubits, with different couplings and possible presence of magnetic field to investigate the appearance of the discussed entanglement properties. We find that states with maximal bipartite entanglement can be generated by an XY Hamiltonian, and their generation can be controlled by the initial state of one of the spins. The same Hamiltonian is capable of creating states with high concurrence of assistance with suitably chosen initial state. We show that the production of graph states using the Ising Hamiltonian is controllable via a single-qubit rotation of one spin-1/2 subsystem in the initial multi-qubit state. We shown that the property of Ising dynamics to convert a product state basis into a special maximally entangled basis is temporally enhanced by the application of a suitable magnetic field. Similar basis transformations are found to be feasible in the case of isotropic XY couplings with magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0503134
title: Comment on "On the temperature dependence of the Casimir effect"
authors: V.B.Bezerra, R.S.Decca, E.Fischbach, B.Geyer, G.L.Klimchitskaya, D.E.Krause, D.Lpez, V.M.Mostepanenko, C.Romero
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, changed in accordance with the final published version
journal: Phys.Rev. E73 (2006) 028101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503134
abstract: Recently, Brevik et al. [Phys. Rev. E 71, 056101 (2005)] adduced arguments against the traditional approach to the thermal Casimir force between real metals and in favor of one of the alternative approaches. The latter assumes zero contribution from the transverse electric mode at zero frequency in qualitative disagreement with unity as given by the thermal quantum field theory for ideal metals. Those authors claim that their approach is consistent with experiments as well as with thermodynamics. We demonstrate that these conclusions are incorrect. We show specifically that their results are contradicted by four recent experiments and also violate the third law of thermodynamics (the Nernst heat theorem).

id: quant-ph/0503135
title: Entanglement correlations, Bell inequalities, and the concurrence
authors: Markus A. Cirone
comments: Updated version of quant-ph/0110139, with extension to mixed states. To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 339 (2005) 269-274
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503135
abstract: Probabilities of measurement outcomes of two-particle entangled states give a physically transparent interpretation of the concurrence and of the I-concurrence as entanglement measures. The (I)-concurrence can thus be measured experimentally. The tight connection between these measures and Bell inequalities is highlighted.

id: quant-ph/0503136
title: Quantum Cooperation of Two Insects
authors: Johann Summhammer
comments: New title and abstract, introduction for biologists, reference update
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503136
abstract: The physical concept of quantum entanglement is brought to the biological domain. We simulate the cooperation of two insects by hypothesizing that they share a large number of quantum entangled spin-1/2 particles. Each of them makes measurements on these particles to decide whether to execute certain actions. In the first example, two ants must push a pebble, which may be too heavy for one ant. In the second example, two distant butterflies must find each other. In both examples the individuals make odour-guided random choices of possible directions, followed by a quantum decision whether to push/fly or to wait. With quantum entanglement the two ants can push the pebble up to twice as far as independent ants, and the two butterflies may need as little as half of the flight path of independent butterflies to find each other.

id: quant-ph/0503137
title: Dirac oscillators and quasi-exactly solvable operators
authors: Y. Brihaye, A. Nininahazwe
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503137
abstract: The Dirac equation is considered in the background of potentials of several types, namely scalar and vector-potentials as well as "Dirac-oscillator" potential or some of its generalisations. We investigate the radial Dirac equation within a quite general spherically symmetric form for these potentials and we analyse some exactly and quasi exactly solvable properties of the underlying matricial linear operators.

id: quant-ph/0503138
title: No partial erasure of quantum information
authors: Arun K. Pati, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Expanded version, 7 pages, no figure, Latex 2e. (In version 2 we had added a corollary that shows that the `no-splitting' theorem for quantum information presented in quant-ph/0503168 is implied by our `no-partial erasure' theorem.)
journal: Physics Letters A 359, 31-36 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503138
abstract: In complete erasure any arbitrary pure quantum state is transformed to a fixed pure state by irreversible operation. Here we ask if the process of partial erasure of quantum information is possible by general quantum operations, where partial erasure refers to reducing the dimension of the parameter space that specifies the quantum state. Here we prove that quantum information stored in qubits and qudits cannot be partially erased, even by irreversible operations. The no-flipping theorem, which rules out the existence of a universal NOT gate for an arbitrary qubit, emerges as a corollary to this theorem. The `no partial erasure' theorem is shown to apply to spin and bosonic coherent states, with the latter result showing that the `no partial erasure' theorem applies to continuous variable quantum information schemes as well. The no partial erasure theorem suggests an integrity principle that quantum information is indivisible.

id: quant-ph/0503139
title: Approximate Quantum Error-Correcting Codes and Secret Sharing Schemes
authors: Claude Crepeau, Daniel Gottesman, Adam Smith
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Preliminary version in proceedings of "Advances in Cryptology -- EUROCRYPT 2005"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503139
abstract: It is a standard result in the theory of quantum error-correcting codes that no code of length n can fix more than n/4 arbitrary errors, regardless of the dimension of the coding and encoded Hilbert spaces. However, this bound only applies to codes which recover the message exactly. Naively, one might expect that correcting errors to very high fidelity would only allow small violations of this bound. This intuition is incorrect: in this paper we describe quantum error-correcting codes capable of correcting up to (n-1)/2 arbitrary errors with fidelity exponentially close to 1, at the price of increasing the size of the registers (i.e., the coding alphabet). This demonstrates a sharp distinction between exact and approximate quantum error correction. The codes have the property that any $t$ components reveal no information about the message, and so they can also be viewed as error-tolerant secret sharing schemes. The construction has several interesting implications for cryptography and quantum information theory. First, it suggests that secret sharing is a better classical analogue to quantum error correction than is classical error correction. Second, it highlights an error in a purported proof that verifiable quantum secret sharing (VQSS) is impossible when the number of cheaters t is n/4. More generally, the construction illustrates a difference between exact and approximate requirements in quantum cryptography and (yet again) the delicacy of security proofs and impossibility results in the quantum model.

id: quant-ph/0503140
title: Relations between cloning and the universal NOT from conservation laws
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 3 pages, almost equal to published version
journal: Phys Rev Lett 95, 010502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503140
abstract: We discuss certain relations between cloning and the NOT operation that can be derived from conservation laws alone. Those relations link the limitations on cloning and the NOT operation possibly imposed by {\em other} laws of Nature. Our result is quite general and holds both in classical and quantum-mechanical worlds, for both optimal and suboptimal operations, and for bosons as well as fermions.

id: quant-ph/0503141
title: A new local invariant for quantum gates
authors: Laura Koponen, Ville Bergholm, Martti M. Salomaa
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 6, 58 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503141
abstract: In this paper we study the properties of two-qubit gates. We review the most common parameterizations for the local equivalence classes of two-qubit gates and the connections between them. We then introduce a new discrete local invariant, namely the number of local degrees of freedom that a gate can bind. The value of this invariant is calculated analytically for all the local equivalence classes of two-qubit gates. We find that almost all two-qubit gates can bind the full six local degrees of freedom and are in this sense more effective than the controlled-NOT gate, which only can bind four local degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0503142
title: Quantum walks and orbital states of a Weyl particle
authors: Makoto Katori, Soichi Fujino, Norio Konno
comments: REVTeX4, 9 pages, 1 figure, v2: Minor corrections made for publication in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 012316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503142
abstract: The time-evolution equation of a one-dimensional quantum walker is exactly mapped to the three-dimensional Weyl equation for a zero-mass particle with spin 1/2, in which each wave number k of walker's wave function is mapped to a point \vec{q}(k) in the three-dimensional momentum space and \vec{q}(k) makes a planar orbit as k changes its value in [-\pi, \pi). The integration over k providing the real-space wave function for a quantum walker corresponds to considering an orbital state of a Weyl particle, which is defined as a superposition (curvilinear integration) of the energy-momentum eigenstates of a free Weyl equation along the orbit. Konno's novel distribution function of quantum-walker's pseudo-velocities in the long-time limit is fully controlled by the shape of the orbit and how the orbit is embedded in the three-dimensional momentum space. The family of orbital states can be regarded as a geometrical representation of the unitary group U(2) and the present study will propose a new group-theoretical point of view for quantum-walk problems.

id: quant-ph/0503143
title: Robust and fragile Werner states in the collective dephasing
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, RevTex4, Accepted by EPJ D
journal: EUROPEAN PHYSICAL JOURNAL D 41, 377 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503143
abstract: We investigate the concurrence and Bell violation of the standard Werner state or Werner-like states in the presence of collective dephasing. It is shown that the standard Werner state and certain kinds of Werner-like states are robust against the collective dephasing, and some kinds of Werner-like states is fragile and becomes completely disentangled in a finite-time. The threshold time of complete disentanglement of the fragile Werner-like states is given. The influence of external driving field on the finite-time disentanglement of the standard Werner state or Werner-like states is discussed. Furthermore, we present a simple method to control the stationary state entanglement and Bell violation of two qubits. Finally, we show that the theoretical calculations of fidelity based on the initial Werner state assumption well agree with previous experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0503144
title: Constraints of the Dynamic Equations and Lagrangian required by Superposition of Field
authors: X. Sun, Z. Yang
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503144
abstract: A general form of the dynamical equations of field is obtained on the requirement this field is a superposable one; hence the constraint on the forms of the Lagrangians is acquired. It shows this requirement requires the continuous transformation group of the Lagrangians of field to be compact, and that All Lagrangians of elementary particles, such as leptons, quarks, photons and gluons, satisfy this requirement.The result of regarding this character as a general property of physical field is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0503145
title: Calculation of resonances in the Coulomb three-body system with two disintegration channels in the adiabatic hyperspherical approach
authors: D.I. Abramov, V.V. Gusev
comments: Latex, 11 pages with 5 figures and 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503145
abstract: The method of calculation of the resonance characteristics is developed for the metastable states of the Coulomb three-body (CTB) system with two disintegration channels. The energy dependence of K-matrix in the resonance region is calculated with the use of the stabilization method. Resonance position and partial widths are obtained by fitting the numerically calculated K(E)-matrix with the help of the generalized Breit-Wigner formula.

id: quant-ph/0503146
title: On Energy Expenditure per Unit of the Amount of Information
authors: A.Granik
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503146
abstract: It is shown that for an equilibrium state of time-symmetric system of non-relativistic strings the energy per unit of information transfer (storage, processing) obeys the Bekenstein conjecture. The result is based on a theorem due to A.Kholevo relating the physical entropy and the amount of information. Interestingly, the energy in question is the difference between the ensemble average of the energy and the Helmholtz free energy.

id: quant-ph/0503147
title: Cosine and Sine Operators Related with Orthogonal Polynomial Sets on the Intervall [-1,1]
authors: Thomas Appl, Diethard H. Schiller
comments: 1 tex-file (24 pages), 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503147
abstract: The quantization of phase is still an open problem. In the approach of Susskind and Glogower so called cosine and sine operators play a fundamental role. Their eigenstates in the Fock representation are related with the Chebyshev polynomials of the second kind. Here we introduce more general cosine and sine operators whose eigenfunctions in the Fock basis are related in a similar way with arbitrary orthogonal polynomial sets on the intervall [-1,1]. To each polynomial set defined in terms of a weight function there corresponds a pair of cosine and sine operators. Depending on the symmetry of the weight function we distinguish generalized or extended operators. Their eigenstates are used to define cosine and sine representations and probability distributions. We consider also the inverse arccosine and arcsine operators and use their eigenstates to define cosine-phase and sine-phase distributions, respectively. Specific, numerical and graphical results are given for the classical orthogonal polynomials and for particular Fock and coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0503148
title: Cloning quantum entanglement in arbitrary dimensions
authors: E. Karpov, P. Navez, N. J. Cerf
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042314 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503148
abstract: We have found a quantum cloning machine that optimally duplicates the entanglement of a pair of $d$-dimensional quantum systems. It maximizes the entanglement of formation contained in the two copies of any maximally-entangled input state, while preserving the separability of unentangled input states. Moreover, it cannot increase the entanglement of formation of all isotropic states. For large $d$, the entanglement of formation of each clone tends to one half the entanglement of the input state, which corresponds to a classical behavior. Finally, we investigate a local entanglement cloner, which yields entangled clones with one fourth the input entanglement in the large-$d$ limit.

id: quant-ph/0503149
title: Non-locality and gauge freedom in Deutsch and Hayden's formulation of quantum mechanics
authors: David Wallace, Chris Timpson
comments: 3 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics 37(6), 2007, pp. 951-955
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503149
abstract: Deutsch and Hayden have proposed an alternative formulation of quantum mechanics which is completely local. We argue that their proposal must be understood as having a form of `gauge freedom' according to which mathematically distinct states are physically equivalent. Once this gauge freedom is taken into account, their formulation is no longer local.

id: quant-ph/0503150
title: Controllability of multi-partite quantum systems and selective excitation of quantum dots
authors: Sonia G Schirmer, Ivan C H Pullen, Allan I Solomon
comments: revised and expanded version, ca 12 pages IoP latex, 4 figures, to appear in J Opt B
journal: J. Opt. B 7, S293-S299 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503150
abstract: We consider the degrees of controllability of multi-partite quantum systems as well as necessary and sufficient criteria for each case. The results are applied to the problem of simultaneous control of an ensemble of quantum dots with a single laser pulse. Finally, we apply optimal control techniques to demonstrate selective excitation of individual dots for a simultaneously controllable ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0503151
title: A relational quantum computer using only two-qubit total spin measurement and an initial supply of highly mixed single qubit states
authors: Terry Rudolph, Shashank Soyuz Virmani
comments: TR apologises for yet again finding a coauthor with a ridiculous middle name [12]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503151
abstract: We prove that universal quantum computation is possible using only (i) the physically natural measurement on two qubits which distinguishes the singlet from the triplet subspace, and (ii) qubits prepared in almost any three different (potentially highly mixed) states. In some sense this measurement is a `more universal' dynamical element than a universal 2-qubit unitary gate, since the latter must be supplemented by measurement. Because of the rotational invariance of the measurement used, our scheme is robust to collective decoherence in a manner very different to previous proposals - in effect it is only ever sensitive to the relational properties of the qubits.

id: quant-ph/0503152
title: Quantifying Entanglement with Witness Operators
authors: Fernando Guadalupe Santos Lins Brandao
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. Replaced version containing missing paragraphs. Mistakes in sections III, VI and XIII corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503152
abstract: We present an unifying approach to the quantification of entanglement based on entanglement witnesses, which includes several already established entanglement measures such as the negativity, the concurrence and the robustness of entanglement. We then introduce an infinite family of new entanglement quantifiers, having as its limits the best separable approximation measure and the generalized robustness. Gaussian states, states with symmetry, states constrained to super-selection rules and states composed of indistinguishable particles are studied under the view of the witnessed entanglement. We derive new bounds to the fidelity of teleportation d_{min}, for the distillable entanglement E_{D} and for the entanglement of formation. A particular measure, the PPT-generalized robustness, stands out due to its easy calculability and provides sharper bounds to d_{min} and E_{D} than the negativity in most of states. We illustrate our approach studying thermodynamical properties of entanglement in the Heisenberg XXX and dimerized models.

id: quant-ph/0503153
title: Quantum process tomography of a single solid state qubit
authors: M. Howard, J. Twamley, C. Wittmann, T. Gaebel, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503153
abstract: We present an example of quantum process tomography performed on a single solid state qubit. The qubit used is two energy levels of the triplet state in the Nitrogen-Vacancy defect in Diamond. Quantum process tomography is applied to a qubit which has been allowed to decohere for three different time periods. In each case the process is found in terms of the $\chi$ matrix representation and the affine map representation. The discrepancy between experimentally estimated process and the closest physically valid process is noted.

id: quant-ph/0503154
title: A representation of complex rational numbers in quantum mechanics
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; paper revised to correct some errors and make it clearer, including a more balanced presentation for bosons and fermions
journal: Phys. Rev. A72, 032314 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503154
abstract: A representation of complex rational numbers in quantum mechanics is described that is not based on logical or physical qubits. It stems from noting that the zeros in a product qubit state do not contribute to the number. They serve only as place holders. The representation is based on the distribution of four types of systems on an integer lattice. The four types, labelled as positive real, negative real, positive imaginary, and negative imaginary, are represented by creation and annihilation operators acting on the system vacuum state. Complex rational string number states correspond to strings of creation operators acting on the vacuum. Various operators, including those for the basic arithmetic operations, are described. The representation used here is based on occupation number states and is given for bosons and fermions.

id: quant-ph/0503155
title: Short-time decoherence of Josephson charge qubits in Ohmic and 1/f noise environment
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica C 432 (2005) 231-238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503155
abstract: In this paper we investigate the short-time decoherence from Ohmic and 1/f noise of single Josephson charge qubit (JCQ). At first, we use the short-time approximation to obtain the dynamics of the open JCQ. Then we calculate the decoherence the measure of which is chosen as the maximum norm of the deviation density operator. It is shown that the decoherence from 1/f noise plays the central role. The total decoherence from Ohmic and 1/f noise is serious at present experiential conditions according to the DiVincenzo criterion.

id: quant-ph/0503156
title: Probing the light induced dipole-dipole interaction in momentum space
authors: R. L?w, R. Gati, J. Stuhler, T. Pfau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503156
abstract: We theoretically investigate the mechanical effect of the light-induced dipole-dipole interaction potential on the atoms in a Bose-Einstein condensate. We present numerical calculations on the magnitude and shape of the induced potentials for different experimentally accessible geometries. It is shown that the mechanical effect can be distinguished from the effect of incoherent scattering for an experimentally feasible setting.

id: quant-ph/0503157
title: Secure Communication Using Qubits
authors: Saied Hosseini-Khayat, Iman Marvian
comments: 13 pages, submitted to the the 25th Annual International Cryptology Conference (Crypto 2005), dated 14/02/2005
journal: The Sixth IEEE International Conference on Computer and Information Technology, 2006. Seoul, South Korea
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503157
abstract: A two-layer quantum protocol for secure transmission of data using qubits is presented. The protocol is an improvement over the BB84 QKD protocol. BB84, in conjunction with the one-time pad algorithm, has been shown to be unconditionally secure. However it suffers from two drawbacks: (1) Its security relies on the assumption that Alice's qubit source is perfect in the sense that it does not inadvertently emit multiple copies of the same qubit. A multi-qubit emission attack can be launched if this assumption is violated. (2) BB84 cannot transfer predetermined keys; the keys it can distribute are generated in the process. Our protocol does not have these drawbacks. As in BB84, our protocol requires an authenticated public channel so as to detect an intruder's interaction with the quantum channel, but unlike in symmetric-key cryptography, the confidentiality of transmitted data does not rely on a shared secret key.

id: quant-ph/0503158
title: Kochen-Specker theorem as a precondition for secure quantum key distribution
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: 4 pages, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012325 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503158
abstract: We show that (1) the violation of the Ekert 91 inequality is a sufficient condition for certification of the Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem, and (2) the violation of the Bennett-Brassard-Mermin 92 (BBM) inequality is, also, a sufficient condition for certification of the KS theorem. Therefore the success in each QKD protocol reveals the nonclassical feature of quantum theory, in the sense that the KS realism is violated. Further, it turned out that the Ekert inequality and the BBM inequality are depictured by distillable entanglement witness inequalities. Here, we connect the success in these two key distribution processes into the no-hidden-variables theorem and into witness on distillable entanglement. We also discuss the explicit difference between the KS realism and Bell's local realism in the Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0503159
title: Abstract algebra, projective geometry and time encoding of quantum information
authors: Michel R. P. Planat, Metod Saniga
comments: To appear in R. Buccheri, A.C. Elitzur and M. Saniga (eds.), "Endophysics, Time, Quantum and the Subjective," World Scientific, Singapore. 16 pages
journal: Endophysics, Time, Quantum and the Subjective (2005) pp. 409-426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503159
abstract: Algebraic geometrical concepts are playing an increasing role in quantum applications such as coding, cryptography, tomography and computing. We point out here the prominent role played by Galois fields viewed as cyclotomic extensions of the integers modulo a prime characteristic $p$. They can be used to generate efficient cyclic encoding, for transmitting secrete quantum keys, for quantum state recovery and for error correction in quantum computing. Finite projective planes and their generalization are the geometric counterpart to cyclotomic concepts, their coordinatization involves Galois fields, and they have been used repetitively for enciphering and coding. Finally the characters over Galois fields are fundamental for generating complete sets of mutually unbiased bases, a generic concept of quantum information processing and quantum entanglement. Gauss sums over Galois fields ensure minimum uncertainty under such protocols. Some Galois rings which are cyclotomic extensions of the integers modulo 4 are also becoming fashionable for their role in time encoding and mutual unbiasedness.

id: quant-ph/0503160
title: Entanglement in quantum catastrophes
authors: Clive Emary, Neill Lambert, Tobias Brandes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503160
abstract: We classify entanglement singularities for various two-mode bosonic systems in terms of catastrophe theory. Employing an abstract phase-space representation, we obtain exact results in limiting cases for the entropy in cusp, butterfly, and two-dimensional catastrophes. We furthermore use numerical results to extract the scaling of the entropy with the non-linearity parameter, and discuss the role of mixing entropies in more complex systems.

id: quant-ph/0503161
title: Globally controlled artificial semiconducting molecules as quantum computers
authors: Jerome Tribollet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503161
abstract: Quantum computers are expected to be considerably more efficient than classical computers for the execution of some specific tasks. The difficulty in the practical implementation of thoose computers is to build a microscopic quantum system that can be controlled at a larger mesoscopic scale. Here I show that vertical lines of donor atoms embedded in an appropriate Zinc Oxide semiconductor structure can constitute artificial molecules that are as many copy of the same quantum computer. In this scalable architecture, each unit of information is encoded onto the electronic spin of a donor. Contrary to most existing practical proposals, here the logical operations only require a global control of the spins by electromagnetic pulses. Ensemble measurements simplify the readout. With appropriate improvement of its growth and doping methods, Zinc Oxide could be a good semiconductor for the next generation of computers.

id: quant-ph/0503162
title: Transition From Quantum To Classical Mechanics As Information Localization
authors: A.Granik
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503162
abstract: Quantum parallelism implies a spread of information over the space in contradistinction to the classical mechanical situation where the information is "centered" on a fixed trajectory of a classical particle. This means that a quantum state becomes specified by more indefinite data. The above spread resembles, without being an exact analogy, a transfer of energy to smaller and smaller scales observed in the hydrodynamical turbulence. There, in spite of the presence of dissipation (in a form of kinematic viscosity), energy is still conserved. The analogy with the information spread in classical to quantum transition means that in this process the information is also conserved. To illustrate that, we show (using as an example a specific case of a coherent quantum oscillator) how the Shannon information density continuously changes in the above transition . In a more general scheme of things, such an analogy allows us to introduce a "dissipative" term (connected with the information spread) in the Hamilton-Jacobi equation and arrive in an elementary fashion at the equations of classical quantum mechanics (ranging from the Schr\"{o}dinger to Klein-Gordon equations). We also show that the principle of least action in quantum mechanics is actually the requirement for the energy to be bounded from below.

id: quant-ph/0503163
title: On decoherence in noncommutative plane with perpendicular magnetic field
authors: B. Dragovich, M. Dugic
comments: 12 AMSTex pages
journal: J.Phys.A38:6603-6612,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503163
abstract: In the last years noncommutative quantum mechanics has been investigated intensively. We consider the influence of magnetic field on decoherence of a system in the noncommutative quantum plane. Particularly, we point out a model in which the magnetic field allows {\it in situ} dynamical control of decoherence as well as, in principle, observation of noncommutativity.

id: quant-ph/0503164
title: Generic Bell inequalities for multipartite arbitrary dimensional systems
authors: W. Son, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060406 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503164
abstract: We present generic Bell inequalities for multipartite multi-dimensional systems. The inequalities that any local realistic theories must obey are violated by quantum mechanics for even-dimensional multipartite systems. A large set of variants are shown to naturally emerge from the generic Bell inequalities. We discuss particular variants of Bell inequalities, that are violated for all the systems including odd-dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0503165
title: Attosecond double-slit experiment
authors: F. Lindner, M. G. Schaetzel, H. Walther, A. Baltuska, E. Goulielmakis, F. Krausz, D. B. Milosevic, D. Bauer, W. Becker, G. G. Paulus
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503165
abstract: A new scheme for a double-slit experiment in the time domain is presented. Phase-stabilized few-cycle laser pulses open one to two windows (``slits'') of attosecond duration for photoionization. Fringes in the angle-resolved energy spectrum of varying visibility depending on the degree of which-way information are observed. A situation in which one and the same electron encounters a single and a double slit at the same time is discussed. The investigation of the fringes makes possible interferometry on the attosecond time scale. The number of visible fringes, for example, indicates that the slits are extended over about 500as.

id: quant-ph/0503166
title: On Dirac theory in the space with deformed Heisenberg algebra. Exact solutions
authors: I. O. Vakarchuk
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503166
abstract: The Dirac equation has been studied in which the Dirac matrices $\hat{\boldmath$\alpha$}, \hat\beta$ have space factors, respectively $f$ and $f_1$, dependent on the particle's space coordinates. The $f$ function deforms Heisenberg algebra for the coordinates and momenta operators, the function $f_1$ being treated as a dependence of the particle mass on its position. The properties of these functions in the transition to the Schr\"odinger equation are discussed. The exact solution of the Dirac equation for the particle motion in the Coulomnb field with a linear dependence of the $f$ function on the distance $r$ to the force centre and the inverse dependence on $r$ for the $f_1$ function has been found.

id: quant-ph/0503167
title: Phase-space reconstruction of an atomic chaotic system
authors: Hugo L. D. De Souza Cavalcante, Carlos Renato De Carvalho, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 5 figures, submitted to PRE
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 72, 3 (2005) 033814
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503167
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a single atom submitted to periodic pulses of a far-detuned standing wave generated by a high-finesse optical cavity, which is an atomic version of the well-known ``kicked rotor''. We show that the classical phase-space map can be ``reconstructed'' by monitoring the transmission of the cavity. We also studied the effect of spontaneous emission on the reconstruction, and put limits to the maximum acceptable spontaneous emission rate.

id: quant-ph/0503168
title: Quantum information cannot be split into complementary parts
authors: D.L. Zhou, B. Zeng, L. You
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 352, 41 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503168
abstract: We prove a new impossibility for quantum information (the no-splitting theorem): an unknown quantum bit (qubit) cannot be split into two complementary qubits. This impossibility, together with the no-cloning theorem, demonstrates that an unknown qubit state is a single entity, which cannot be cloned or split. This sheds new light on quantum computation and quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0503169
title: Purifying Quantum States: Quantum and Classical Algorithms
authors: Eric Dennis
comments: Ph.D. thesis accepted by UCSB on 9/2003. Finally got around to arxiving it
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503169
abstract: I give analytical estimates and numerical simulation results for the performance of Kitaev's 2d topological error-correcting codes. By providing methods for the execution of an encoded three-qubit Toffoli gate, I complete a universal gate set for these codes. I also examine the utility of Bohm's and Bohm-inspired interpretations of quantum mechanics for numerical solution of many-body dynamics and ``mechanism identification'' heuristics in discrete systems. Further, I show an unexpected quantitative correspondence between the previously known continuum of stochastic-Bohm trajectory theories on the one hand and extant path integral Monte Carlo methods on the other hand.

id: quant-ph/0503170
title: The Quantum Mechanics of Hyperion
authors: Nathan Wiebe, L.E. Ballentine
comments: 17 pages, 24 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503170
abstract: This paper is motivated by the suggestion [W. Zurek, Physica Scripta, T76, 186 (1998)] that the chaotic tumbling of the satellite Hyperion would become non-classical within 20 years, but for the effects of environmental decoherence. The dynamics of quantum and classical probability distributions are compared for a satellite rotating perpendicular to its orbital plane, driven by the gravitational gradient. The model is studied with and without environmental decoherence. Without decoherence, the maximum quantum-classical (QC) differences in its average angular momentum scale as hbar^{2/3} for chaotic states, and as hbar^2 for non-chaotic states, leading to negligible QC differences for a macroscopic object like Hyperion. The quantum probability distributions do not approach their classical limit smoothly, having an extremely fine oscillatory structure superimposed on the smooth classical background. For a macroscopic object, this oscillatory structure is too fine to be resolved by any realistic measurement. Either a small amount of smoothing (due to the finite resolution of the apparatus) or a very small amount of environmental decoherence is sufficient ensure the classical limit. Under decoherence, the QC differences in the probability distributions scale as (hbar^2/D)^{1/6}, where D is the momentum diffusion parameter. We conclude that decoherence is not essential to explain the classical behavior of macroscopic bodies.

id: quant-ph/0503171
title: Can the Salecker-Wigner clock be microscopic?
authors: Andor Frenkel
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503171
abstract: Half a century ago H. Salecker and E. P. Wigner examined the functioning of a quantum clock of very simple construction [1]. They raised the question whether such a clock can be microscopic or not, but no clear-cut answer has been reached in [1] (see also [2]). In this note it is shown that their clock can have a microscopic mass and size only if its accuracy is poor, but if the size is macroscopic, a decent accuracy can be achieved even if the mass is microscopic.

id: quant-ph/0503172
title: The Aharonov-Bohm Effect in the Momentum Space
authors: D. Dragoman, S. Bogdan
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503172
abstract: The Schrodinger formalism of quantum mechanics is used to demonstrate the existence of the Aharonov-Bohm effect in momentum space and set-ups for experimentally demonstrating it are proposed for either free or ballistic electrons.

id: quant-ph/0503173
title: Continuous optimal ensembles I: A geometrical characterization of robustly separable quantum states
authors: Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503173
abstract: A geometrical characterization of robustly separable (that is, remaining separable under sufficiently small variiations) mixed states of a bipartite quantum system is given. It is shown that the density matrix of any such state can be represented as a normal vector to a hypersurface in the Euclidean space of all self-adjoint operators in the state space of the whole system. The expression for this hypersurface is provided.

id: quant-ph/0503174
title: Simulation of many-qubit quantum computation with matrix product states
authors: M. C. Banuls, R. Orus, J. I. Latorre, A. Perez, P. Ruiz-Femenia
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022344 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503174
abstract: Matrix product states provide a natural entanglement basis to represent a quantum register and operate quantum gates on it. This scheme can be materialized to simulate a quantum adiabatic algorithm solving hard instances of a NP-Complete problem. Errors inherent to truncations of the exact action of interacting gates are controlled by the size of the matrices in the representation. The property of finding the right solution for an instance and the expected value of the energy are found to be remarkably robust against these errors. As a symbolic example, we simulate the algorithm solving a 100-qubit hard instance, that is, finding the correct product state out of ~ 10^30 possibilities. Accumulated statistics for up to 60 qubits point at a slow growth of the average minimum time to solve hard instances with highly-truncated simulations of adiabatic quantum evolution.

id: quant-ph/0503175
title: Gravitational field measurement with an equilibrium ensemble of cold atoms
authors: Igor Kulikov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503175
abstract: A new approach to the measurement of gravitational fields with an equilibrium ensemble of ultra-cold alkali atoms confined in a cell of volume $V$ is investigated. The proposed model of the gravitational sensor is based on a variation of the density profile of the ensemble due to changing of the gravitational field. For measurement the atomic density variations of the ensemble the electromagnetically induced transparency method is used.

id: quant-ph/0503176
title: Studies in the Theory of Quantum Games
authors: Azhar Iqbal
comments: PhD thesis, Quaid-i-Azam University, 2004, 6 figures, 173 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503176
abstract: Theory of quantum games is a new area of investigation that has gone through rapid development during the last few years. Initial motivation for playing games, in the quantum world, comes from the possibility of re-formulating quantum communication protocols, and algorithms, in terms of games between quantum and classical players. The possibility led to the view that quantum games have a potential to provide helpful insight into working of quantum algorithms, and even in finding new ones. This thesis analyzes and compares some interesting games when played classically and quantum mechanically. A large part of the thesis concerns investigations into a refinement notion of the Nash equilibrium concept. The refinement, called an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS), was originally introduced in 1970s by mathematical biologists to model an evolving population using techniques borrowed from game theory. Analysis is developed around a situation when quantization changes ESSs without affecting corresponding Nash equilibria. Effects of quantization on solution-concepts other than Nash equilibrium are presented and discussed. For this purpose the notions of value of coalition, backwards-induction outcome, and subgame-perfect outcome are selected. Repeated games are known to have different information structure than one-shot games. Investigation is presented into a possible way where quantization changes the outcome of a repeated game. Lastly, two new suggestions are put forward to play quantum versions of classical matrix games. The first one uses the association of De Broglie's waves, with travelling material objects, as a resource for playing a quantum game. The second suggestion concerns an EPR type setting exploiting directly the correlations in Bell's inequalities to play a bi-matrix game.

id: quant-ph/0503177
title: Evolution of pairwise entanglement in a coupled n-body system
authors: Carlos Pineda, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; RevTex4, Fixed typo in Eq. 3 and in concurrence definition
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73(1), 012305, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503177
abstract: We study the exact evolution of two non-interacting qubits, initially in a Bell state, in the presence of an environment, modeled by a kicked Ising spin chain. Dynamics of this model range from integrable to chaotic and we can handle numerics for a large number of qubits. We find that the entanglement (as measured by concurrence) of the two qubits has a close relation to the purity of the pair, and follows an analytic relation derived for Werner states. As a collateral result we find that an integrable environment causes quadratic decay of concurrence, while a chaotic environment causes linear decay.

id: quant-ph/0503178
title: Withdrawn
authors: 
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503178
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0503179
title: Lifting Bell inequalities
authors: Stefano Pironio
comments: Revtex, 8 pages. v2: minor revisions
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 062112 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503179
abstract: A Bell inequality defined for a specific experimental configuration can always be extended to a situation involving more observers, measurement settings or measurement outcomes. In this article, such "liftings" of Bell inequalities are studied. It is shown that if the original inequality defines a facet of the polytope of local joint outcome probabilities then the lifted one also defines a facet of the more complex polytope.

id: quant-ph/0503180
title: Quantum logic via optimal control in holographic dipole traps
authors: U. Dorner, T. Calarco, P. Zoller, A. Browaeys, P. Grangier
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503180
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum logic with neutral atoms stored in an array of holographic dipole traps where the positions of the atoms can be rearranged by using holographic optical tweezers. In particular, this allows for the transport of two atoms to the same well where an external control field is used to perform gate operations via the molecular interaction between the atoms. We show that optimal control techniques allow for the fast implementation of the gates with high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0503181
title: Atom Nano-lithography with Multi-layer Light Masks: Particle Optics Analysis
authors: R. Arun, I.Sh. Averbukh, T. Pfau
comments: 7 pages including 8 figures in Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 023417 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503181
abstract: We study the focusing of atoms by multiple layers of standing light waves in the context of atom lithography. In particular, atomic localization by a double-layer light mask is examined using the optimal squeezing approach. Operation of the focusing setup is analyzed both in the paraxial approximation and in the regime of nonlinear spatial squeezing for the thin-thin as well as thin-thick atom lens combinations. It is shown that the optimized double light mask may considerably reduce the imaging problems, improve the quality of focusing and enhance the contrast ratio of the deposited structures.

id: quant-ph/0503182
title: Representations of Spacetime Alternatives and Their Classical Limits
authors: August W. Bosse, James B. Hartle
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, Revtex4, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 022105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503182
abstract: Different quantum mechanical operators can correspond to the same classical quantity. Hermitian operators differing only by operator ordering of the canonical coordinates and momenta at one moment of time are the most familiar example. Classical spacetime alternatives that extend over time can also be represented by different quantum operators. For example, operators representing a particular value of the time average of a dynamical variable can be constructed in two ways: First, as the projection onto the value of the time averaged Heisenberg picture operator for the dynamical variable. Second, as the class operator defined by a sum over those histories of the dynamical variable that have the specified time-averaged value. We show both by explicit example and general argument that the predictions of these different representations agree in the classical limit and that sets of histories represented by them decohere in that limit.

id: quant-ph/0503183
title: Entanglement of Two Impurities through Electron Scattering
authors: A. T. Costa Jr, S. Bose, Y. Omar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 230501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503183
abstract: We study how two magnetic impurities embedded in a solid can be entangled by an injected electron scattering between them and by subsequent measurement of the electron's state. We start by investigating an ideal case where only the electronic spin interacts successively through the same unitary operation with the spins of the two impurities. In this case, high (but not maximal) entanglement can be generated with a significant success probability. We then consider a more realistic description which includes both the forward and back scattering amplitudes. In this scenario, we obtain the entanglement between the impurities as a function of the interaction strength of the electron-impurity coupling. We find that our scheme allows us to entangle the impurities maximally with a significant probability.

id: quant-ph/0503184
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum State Transfer with Partially Disembodied Transport
authors: Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 170501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503184
abstract: We propose a new protocol of implementing continuous-variable quantum state transfer using partially disembodied transport. This protocol may improve the fidelity at the expense of the introduction of a semi-quantum channel between the parties, in comparison with quantum teleportation using the same strength of entanglement. Depending on the amount of information destroyed in the measurement, this protocol may be regarded as a teleportation protocol (complete destruction of input state), or as a $1\to M$ cloning protocol (partial destruction), or as a direct transmission (no destruction). This scheme can be straightforwardly implemented with the experimentally accessible setup at present.

id: quant-ph/0503185
title: Signatures of chaotic and non-chaotic-like behaviour in a non-linear quantum oscillator through photon detection
authors: M. J. Everitt, T. D. Clark, P. B. Stiffell, J. F. Ralph, A. R. Bulsara, C. J. Harland
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys Rev E 72, 066209 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503185
abstract: The driven non-linear duffing osillator is a very good, and standard, example of a quantum mechanical system from which classical-like orbits can be recovered from unravellings of the master equation. In order to generated such trajectories in the phase space of this oscillator in this paper we use a the quantum jumps unravelling together with a suitable application of the correspondence principle. We analyse the measured readout by considering the power spectra of photon counts produced by the quantum jumps. Here we show that localisation of the wave packet from the measurement of the oscillator by the photon detector produces a concomitant structure in the power spectra of the measured output. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this spectral analysis can be used to distinguish between different modes of the underlying dynamics of the oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0503186
title: Quantum Theory for Generation of Nonclassical Photon Pairs by a Medium with Coherent Atomic Memory
authors: Narek Sisakyan, Yuri Malakyan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503186
abstract: We present a fully quantum mechanical treatment of recent experiments on creation of collective quantum memory and generation of non-classically correlated photon pairs from an atomic ensemble via the protocol of Duan et al. [Nature {\bf 414,} 413(2001)]. The temporal evolution of photon numbers, photon statistics and cross-correlation between the Stokes and anti-Stokes fields is found by solving the equation of motion for atomic spin-wave excitations. We consider a low-finesse cavity model with collectively enhanced signal-to-noise ratio, which remains still considerably large in the free-space limit. Our results describe analytically the dependence of quantum correlations on spin decoherence time and time-delay between the write and read lasers and reproduce the observed data very well including the generated pulse shapes, strong violation of Cauchy-Schwarz inequality and conditional generation of anti-Stokes single-photon pulse. The theory we developed may serve as a basic approach for quantum description of storage and retrieval of quantum information, especially when the statistical properties of non-classical pulses are studied.

id: quant-ph/0503187
title: Existence of Time Operator for a Singular Harmonic Oscillator
authors: V. Mikuta-Martinis, M.Martinis
comments: 7 pages, no figures, LaTex, submitted to Concepts of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503187
abstract: The time operator for a quantum singular oscillator of the Calogero-Sutherland type is constructed in terms of the generators of the SU(1,1) group. In the space spanned by the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian, the time operator is not self-adjoint. We show, that the time-energy uncertainty relation can be given the meaning within the Barut-Girardello coherent states defined for the singular oscillator.We have also shown the relationship with the time-of-arrival operator of Aharonov and Bohm.

id: quant-ph/0503188
title: Quantum computing of delocalization in small-world networks
authors: O. Giraud, B. Georgeot, D.L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, research done at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. E 72, 036203 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503188
abstract: We study a quantum small-world network with disorder and show that the system exhibits a delocalization transition. A quantum algorithm is built up which simulates the evolution operator of the model in a polynomial number of gates for exponential number of vertices in the network. The total computational gain is shown to depend on the parameters of the network and a larger than quadratic speed-up can be reached. We also investigate the robustness of the algorithm in presence of imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0503189
title: Generalizing Elitzur-Vaidman interaction free measurements
authors: Adonai S. Sant'Anna, Otavio Bueno
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503189
abstract: In the early 1990's A. Elitzur and L. Vaidman proposed an interaction free measurement (IFM) that allows researchers to find infinitely fragile objects without destroying them. But Elitzur-Vaidman IFM has been used only to determine the position of opaque objects. In this paper, we propose an extension of such a technique that allows measurement of classical electric and magnetic fields. Our main goal is to offer a framework for future investigations about the role of the measurement processes, expanding the physical properties that are measurable by means of IFM.

id: quant-ph/0503190
title: Decoherence in non integrable systems
authors: Mario Castagnino
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503190
abstract: Self-induced decoherence formalism and the corresponding classical limit are extended from quantum integrable systems to non-integrable ones.

id: quant-ph/0503191
title: The classical-statistical limit of quantum mechanics
authors: Mario Castagnino
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physica A, 335 (2004) 511-517
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503191
abstract: The classical-statistical limit of quantum mechanics is studied. It is proved that the limit $\hbar \to 0$ is the good limit for the operators algebra but it si not so for the state compact set. In the last case decoherence must be invoked to obtain the classical-statistical limit.

id: quant-ph/0503192
title: Experimental Quantum Key Distribution with Decoy States
authors: Yi Zhao, Bing Qi, Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Li Qian
comments: Revised Version, 4 pages, one figures, two-column format
journal: Physical Review Letters 96, 070502 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503192
abstract: To increase dramatically the distance and the secure key generation rate of quantum key distribution (QKD), the idea of quantum decoys--signals of different intensities--has recently been proposed. Here, we present the first experimental implementation of decoy state QKD. By making simple modifications to a commercial quantum key distribution system, we show that a secure key generation rate of 165bit/s, which is 1/4 of the theoretical limit, can be obtained over 15km of a Telecom fiber. We also show that with the same experimental parameters, not even a single bit of secure key can be extracted with a non-decoy-state protocol. Compared to building single photon sources, decoy state QKD is a much simpler method for increasing the distance and key generation rate of unconditionally secure QKD.

id: quant-ph/0503193
title: A simple formula for pooling knowledge about a quantum system
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 5 pages, Revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 044101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503193
abstract: When various observers obtain information in an independent fashion about a classical system, there is a simple rule which allows them to pool their knowledge, and this requires only the states-of-knowledge of the respective observers. Here we derive an equivalent quantum formula. While its realm of applicability is necessarily more limited, it does apply to a large class of measurements, and we show explicitly for a single qubit that it satisfies the intuitive notions of what it means to pool knowledge about a quantum system. This analysis also provides a physical interpretation for the trace of the product of two density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0503194
title: Cones of ball-ball separable elements
authors: Roland Hildebrand
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503194
abstract: Let B_1,B_2 be balls in finite-dimensional real vector spaces E_1,E_2, centered around unit length vectors v_1,v_2 and not containing zero. An element in the tensor product space E_1 \otimes E_2 is called B_1 \otimes B_2-separable if it is contained in the convex conic hull of elements of the form w_1 \otimes w_2, where w_1 \in B_1, w_2 \in B_2. We study the cone formed by the separable elements in E_1 \otimes E_2. We determine the largest faces of this cone via a description of the extreme rays of the dual cone, i.e. the cone of the corresponding positive linear maps. We compute the radius of the largest ball centered around v_1 \otimes v_2 that consists of separable elements. As an application we obtain lower bounds on the radius of the largest ball of separable unnormalized states around the identity matrix for a multi-qubit system. These bounds are approximately 12% better than the best previously known. Our results are extendible to the case where B_1,B_2 are solid ellipsoids.

id: quant-ph/0503195
title: Instability and entanglement of the ground state of the Dicke model
authors: Vladimir Buzek, Miguel Orszag, Marian Rosko
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503195
abstract: Using tools of quantum information theory we show that the ground state of the Dicke model exhibits an infinite sequence of instabilities (quantum-phase-like transitions). These transitions are characterized by abrupt changes of the bi-partite entanglement between atoms at critical values $\kappa_j$ of the atom-field coupling parameter $\kappa$ and are accompanied by discontinuities of the first derivative of the energy of the ground state. We show that in a weak-coupling limit ($\kappa_1\leq \kappa \leq \kappa_2$) the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters (CKW) inequalities are saturated which proves that for these values of the coupling no intrinsic multipartite entanglement (neither among the atoms nor between the atoms and the field) is generated by the atom-field interaction. We analyze also the atom-field entanglement and we show that in the strong-coupling limit the field is entangled with the atoms so that the von Neumann entropy of the atomic sample (that serves as a measure of the atom-field entanglement) takes the value $S_A={1/2}\ln (N+1)$. The entangling interaction with atoms leads to a highly sub-Poissonian photon statistics of the field mode.

id: quant-ph/0503196
title: Quantum Scattering in Strong Cylindrical Confinement
authors: Ji il Kim, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Peter Schmelcher
comments: First submission on 22 Dec.04, second on 24 Mar.04. Extended version at quant-ph/0506192
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503196
abstract: A Green's function formalism to analyze the scattering properties in confined geometries is developed. This includes scattering from a central field inside the guide created e.g. by impurities. For atomic collisions our approach applies to the case of parabolic confinement and, with certain restrictions, also to an anharmonic one. The coupling between the angular momentum phase shifts $\delta_l$ of a spherically symmetric scattering potential $V(r)$ due to the cylindrical confinement is analysed. Under these general conditions, a broad range of scattering energies covering many transversal excitations is considered and changes to the bound states of $V(r)$ are derived. For collisions between identical atoms, the boson-fermion and fermion-boson mappings are demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0503197
title: Analytic pulse design for selective population transfer in many-level quantum systems: optimizing the pulse duration
authors: Duje Bonacci
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503197
abstract: In the previous paper on this topic it was shown how, for a pulse of arbitrary shape and duration, the drive frequency can be analytically optimized to maximize the amplitude of the population oscillations between the selected two levels in a general many level quantum system. It was shown how the standard Rabi theory can be extended beyond the simple two-level systems. Now, in order to achieve the quickest and as complete as possible population transfer between two pre-selected levels, driving pulse should be tailored so that it produces only a single half-oscillation of the population. In this paper, this second (and final) step towards the controlled population transfer using modified (i.e. many level system) Rabi oscillations is discussed. The results presented herein can be regarded as an extension of the standard $\pi$-pulse theory - also strictly valid only in the two level systems - to the coherently driven population oscillations in general many level systems.

id: quant-ph/0503198
title: Non-Commutative Worlds -- A Summary
authors: Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures, LaTeX document
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 1439-1466
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503198
abstract: This paper summarizes the contents of the paper "Non-Commutative Worlds" by the author (published in New Journal of Physics Vol. 6, November 2004, pp. 2 - 46; quant-ph/0403012) and gives a new derivation of our generalization of electromagnetism in a non-commutative context. This generalization extends the Feynman-Dyson derivation and it admits discrete models. The methods of the present paper are diagrammatic. In this form, the theory is entirely a consequence of the choice of definition of space and time derivatives as commutators.

id: quant-ph/0503199
title: Simulation of a Heisenberg XY- chain and realization of a perfect state transfer algorithm using liquid nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Gui Lu Long, Wei Zhang, Zhiwei Deng, Wenzhang Liu, Zhiheng Lu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 012331(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503199
abstract: The three- spin chain with Heisenberg XY- interaction is simulated in a three- qubit nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. The evolution caused by the XY- interaction is decomposed into a series of single- spin rotations and the $J$- coupling evolutions between the neighboring spins. The perfect state transfer (PST) algorithm proposed by M. Christandl et al [Phys. Rev. Lett, 92, 187902(2004)] is realized in the XY- chain.

id: quant-ph/0503200
title: Decoherence in regular systems
authors: Marko Znidaric, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 11 pages, 2 PS figures; published version
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, 306-311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503200
abstract: We consider unitary evolution of finite bipartite quantum systems and study time dependence of purity for initial cat states -- coherent superpositions of Gaussian wave-packets. We derive explicit formula for purity in systems with nonzero time averaged coupling, a typical situation for systems where an uncoupled part of the Hamiltonian is Liouville integrable. Previous analytical studies have been limited to harmonic oscillator systems but with our theory we are able to derive analytical results for general integrable systems. Two regimes are clearly identified, at short times purity decays due to decoherence whereas at longer times it decays because of relaxation.

id: quant-ph/0503201
title: The GRA Beam-Splitter Experiments and Particle-Wave Duality of Light
authors: P.N.Kaloyerou
comments: 22 pages,4 figures, Latex, corrected typos and have replaced paragraphs 3, 4 an 5 with 5 new paragraphs (a rewriting of the same content). I have replaced the font with a larger font in figures 1,2 and 4. The paper is to be published in Journal of Physics A: Mathematics and General
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503201
abstract: Grangier, Roger and Aspect (GRA) performed a beam-splitter experiment to demonstrate the particle behaviour of light and a Mach-Zehnder interferometer experiment to demonstrate the wave behaviour of light. The distinguishing feature of these experiments is the use of a gating system to produce near ideal single photon states. With the demonstration of both wave and particle behaviour (in two mutually exclusive experiments) they claim to have demonstrated the dual particle-wave behaviour of light and hence to have confirmed Bohr's principle of complementarity. The demonstration of the wave behaviour of light is not in dispute. But we want to demonstrate, contrary to the claims of GRA, that their beam-splitter experiment does not conclusively confirm the particle behaviour of light, and hence does not confirm particle-wave duality, nor, more generally, does it confirm complementarity. Our demonstration consists of providing a detailed model based on the Causal Interpretation of Quantum Fields (CIEM), which does not involve the particle concept, of GRA's which-path experiment. We will also give a brief outline of a CIEM model for the second, interference, GRA experiment.

id: quant-ph/0503202
title: Theoretical Analyses of Quantum Counting against Decoherence Errors
authors: Jun Hasegawa, Fumitaka Yura
comments: 22 pages, 21 figures, submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503202
abstract: In this paper, we analyze the quantum counting under the decoherence, which can find the number of solutions satisfying a given oracle. We investigate probability distributions related to the first order term of the error rate on the quantum counting with the depolarizing channel. We also implement two circuits for the quantum counting -- the ascending-order circuit and the descending-order circuit -- by reversing ordering of application of controlled-Grover operations. By theoretical and numerical calculations for probability distributions, we reveal the difference of probability distributions on two circuits in the presence of decoherence and show that the ascending-order circuit is more robust against the decoherence than the descending-order circuit. This property of the robustness is applicable to the phase estimation such as the factoring.

id: quant-ph/0503203
title: An algebraic SU(1,1) solution for the relativistic hydrogen atom
authors: R. P. Martnez-y-Romero, H. N. N?ez-Ypez, A. L. Salas-Brito
comments: to appear in Physics Letters A (2005). We corrected a misprint in page 7, in the paragraph baggining with "With the value of ..." the ground state should be |\lambda, \lambda>, not |\lambda, \lambda+1>
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503203
abstract: The bound eigenfunctions and spectrum of a Dirac hydrogen atom are found taking advantage of the $SU(1, 1)$ Lie algebra in which the radial part of the problem can be expressed. For defining the algebra we need to add to the description an additional angular variable playing essentially the role of a phase. The operators spanning the algebra are used for defining ladder operators for the radial eigenfunctions of the relativistic hydrogen atom and for evaluating its energy spectrum. The status of the Johnson-Lippman operator in this algebra is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0503204
title: Entangling ability of a beam splitter in the presence of temporal which-path information
authors: J.L. van Velsen
comments: 8 pages including 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012334 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503204
abstract: We calculate the amount of polarization-entanglement induced by two-photon interference at a lossless beam splitter. Entanglement and its witness are quantified respectively by concurrence and the Bell-CHSH parameter. In the presence of a Mandel dip, the interplay of two kinds of which-path information -- temporal and polarization -- gives rise to the existence of entangled polarization-states that cannot violate the Bell-CHSH inequality.

id: quant-ph/0503205
title: A different kind of quantum search
authors: Lov K. Grover
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503205
abstract: The quantum search algorithm consists of an alternating sequence of selective inversions and diffusion type operations, as a result of which it can find a target state in an unsorted database of size N in only sqrt(N) queries. This paper shows that by replacing the selective inversions by selective phase shifts of Pi/3, the algorithm gets transformed into something similar to a classical search algorithm. Just like classical search algorithms this algorithm has a fixed point in state-space toward which it preferentially converges. In contrast, the original quantum search algorithm moves uniformly in a two-dimensional state space. This feature leads to robust search algorithms and also to conceptually new schemes for error correction.

id: quant-ph/0503206
title: Markovian feedback to control continuous variable entanglement
authors: Stefano Mancini
comments: 4 pages Revtex, new figures, added comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 010304(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503206
abstract: We present a model to realize quantum feedback control of continuous variable entanglement. It consists of two interacting bosonic modes subject to amplitude damping and achieving entangled Gaussian steady state. The possibility to greatly improve the degree of entanglement by means of Markovian (direct) feedback is then shown.

id: quant-ph/0503207
title: Decoherence of multi-dimensional entangled coherent states
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022308 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503207
abstract: For entangled states of light both the amount of entanglement and the sensitivity to noise generally increase with the number of photons in the state. The entanglement-sensitivity tradeoff is investigated for a particular set of states, multi-dimensional entangled coherent states. Those states possess an arbitrarily large amount of entanglement $E$ provided the number of photons is at least of order $2^{2E}$. We calculate how fast that entanglement decays due to photon absorption losses and how much entanglement is left. We find that for very small losses the amount of entanglement lost is equal to $2/\log(2)\approx 2.89$ ebits per absorbed photon, irrespective of the amount of pure-state entanglement $E$ one started with. In contrast, for larger losses it tends to be the remaining amount of entanglement that is independent of $E$. This may provide a useful strategy for creating states with a fixed amount of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0503208
title: Elliptical orbits in the Bloch sphere
authors: A. Mandilara, J. W. Clark, M. S. Byrd
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, few corrections, J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S1-S6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503208
abstract: As is well known, when an SU(2) operation acts on a two-level system, its Bloch vector rotates without change of magnitude. Considering a system composed of two two-level systems, it is proven that for a class of nonlocal interactions of the two subsystems including \sigma_i\otimes\sigma_j (with i,j \in {x,y,z}) and the Heisenberg interaction, the geometric description of the motion is particularly simple: each of the two Bloch vectors follows an elliptical orbit within the Bloch sphere. The utility of this result is demonstrated in two applications, the first of which bears on quantum control via quantum interfaces. By employing nonunitary control operations, we extend the idea of controllability to a set of points which are not necessarily connected by unitary transformations. The second application shows how the orbit of the coherence vector can be used to assess the entangling power of Heisenberg exchange interaction.

id: quant-ph/0503209
title: Influence of relaxation on propagation, storage and retrieving of light pulses in electromagnetically induced transparency medium
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan, Gayane Grigoryan
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503209
abstract: By solving the self-consistent system of Maxwell and density matrix equations to the first order with respect to nonadiabaticity, we obtain an analytical solution for the probe pulse propagation. The conditions for efficient storage of light are analyzed. The necessary conditions for optical propagation distance has been obtained.

id: quant-ph/0503210
title: Convergence Conditions for Random Quantum Circuits
authors: Joseph Emerson, Etera Livine, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages (revtex), comments welcome. v2: reference added, title changed; v3: published version, minor changes, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 060302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503210
abstract: Efficient methods for generating pseudo-randomly distributed unitary operators are needed for the practical application of Haar distributed random operators in quantum communication and noise estimation protocols. We develop a theoretical framework for analyzing pseudo-random ensembles generated through a random circuit composition. We prove that the measure over random circuits converges exponentially (with increasing circuit length) to the uniform (Haar) measure on the unitary group and describe how the rate of convergence may be calculated for specific applications.

id: quant-ph/0503211
title: Relativistic motion with linear dissipation
authors: G. Gonzalez
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503211
abstract: A general formalism for obtaining the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian for a one dimensional dissipative system is developed. The formalism is illustrated by applying it to the case of a relativistic particle with linear dissipation. The relativistic wave equation is solved for a free particle with linear dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0503212
title: On the Electric Charge Quantization from the Dirac-Aharonov-Bohm Potential
authors: F.A. Barone, J.A. Helayel-Neto
comments: Title changed, text restructured, added references, 3 revtex pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503212
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to show that, under certain restrictions, we can take a Dirac-Aharonov-Bohm potential as a pure gauge field. We argue that a modified quantization condition comes out for the electric charge that may open up the way for the understanding of fractional charges. One does not need any longer to rely on the existence of a magnetic monopole to justify electric charge quantization.

id: quant-ph/0503213
title: On the Coherent State Path Integral for Linear Systems
authors: C. G. Torre
comments: 15 pages, plain TeX
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 025004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503213
abstract: We present a computation of the coherent state path integral for a generic linear system using ``functional methods'' (as opposed to discrete time approaches). The Gaussian phase space path integral is formally given by a determinant built from a first-order differential operator with coherent state boundary conditions. We show how this determinant can be expressed in terms of the symplectic transformation generated by the (in general, time-dependent) quadratic Hamiltonian for the system. We briefly discuss the conditions under which the coherent state path integral for a linear system actually exists. A necessary -- but not sufficient -- condition for existence of the path integral is that the symplectic transformation generated by the Hamiltonian is (unitarily) implementable on the Fock space for the system.

id: quant-ph/0503214
title: Extended statistical modeling under symmetry; the link toward quantum mechanics
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: The paper has been withdrawn because it is outdated
journal: Annals of Statistics 2006, Vol. 34, No. 1, 42-77
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503214
abstract: We derive essential elements of quantum mechanics from a parametric structure extending that of traditional mathematical statistics. The basic setting is a set $\mathcal{A}$ of incompatible experiments, and a transformation group $G$ on the cartesian product $\Pi$ of the parameter spaces of these experiments. The set of possible parameters is constrained to lie in a subspace of $\Pi$, an orbit or a set of orbits of $G$. Each possible model is then connected to a parametric Hilbert space. The spaces of different experiments are linked unitarily, thus defining a common Hilbert space $\mathbf{H}$. A state is equivalent to a question together with an answer: the choice of an experiment $a\in\mathcal{A}$ plus a value for the corresponding parameter. Finally, probabilities are introduced through Born's formula, which is derived from a recent version of Gleason's theorem. This then leads to the usual formalism of elementary quantum mechanics in important special cases. The theory is illustrated by the example of a quantum particle with spin.

id: quant-ph/0503215
title: Neutron wave packet tomography
authors: G. Badurek, P. Facchi, Y. Hasegawa, Z. Hradil, S. Pascazio, H. Rauch, J. Rehacek, T. Yoneda
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73, 032110 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503215
abstract: A tomographic technique is introduced in order to determine the quantum state of the center of mass motion of neutrons. An experiment is proposed and numerically analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0503216
title: Calculating the hydrogen molecule ion using the two particle Schr"odinger equation
authors: D. Schmicker
comments: 4 pages, source code for the calculation available
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503216
abstract: We calculate the hydrogen molecule ion from the two particle Schr"odinger equation. Therefore a very simple two particle basis set is chosen. We suggest this ansatz to be used to solve the "two electron one phonon" three particle wave-function of a BCS superconductor. Possibly it can give hints for high temperature superconductors.

id: quant-ph/0503217
title: Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer with cavities: theory
authors: C. Olindo, M. A. Sagioro, C. H. Monken, S. Pdua, A. Delgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503217
abstract: We study the number of coincidences in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer exit whose arms have been supplemented with the addition of one or two optical cavities. The fourth-order correlation function at the beam-splitter exit is calculated. In the regime where the cavity length are larger than the one-photon coherence length, photon coalescence and anti-coalescence interference is observed. Feynman's path diagrams for the indistinguishable processes that lead to quantum interference are presented. As application for the Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer with two cavities, it is discussed the construction of an optical XOR gate.

id: quant-ph/0503218
title: Continuity bounds on the quantum relative entropy
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, J. Eisert
comments: 13 pages (ReVTeX), 3 figures, replaced with published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 102104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503218
abstract: The quantum relative entropy is frequently used as a distance, or distinguishability measure between two quantum states. In this paper we study the relation between this measure and a number of other measures used for that purpose, including the trace norm distance. More precisely, we derive lower and upper bounds on the relative entropy in terms of various distance measures for the difference of the states based on unitarily invariant norms. The upper bounds can be considered as statements of continuity of the relative entropy distance in the sense of Fannes. We employ methods from optimisation theory to obtain bounds that are as sharp as possible.

id: quant-ph/0503219
title: Violation of the entropic area law for Fermions
authors: Michael M. Wolf
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 010404 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503219
abstract: We investigate the scaling of the entanglement entropy in an infinite translational invariant Fermionic system of any spatial dimension. The states under consideration are ground states and excitations of tight-binding Hamiltonians with arbitrary interactions. We show that the entropy of a finite region typically scales with the area of the surface times a logarithmic correction. Thus, in contrast to analogous Bosonic systems, the entropic area law is violated for Fermions. The relation between the entanglement entropy and the structure of the Fermi surface is discussed, and it is proven, that the presented scaling law holds whenever the Fermi surface is finite. This is in particular true for all ground states of Hamiltonians with finite range interactions.

id: quant-ph/0503220
title: Statistical Properties of Quantum Graph Spectra
authors: Yu. Dabaghian
comments: 14 pages, 3 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503220
abstract: A general analytical approach to the statistical description of quantum graph spectra based on the exact periodic orbit expansions of quantum levels is discussed. The exact and approximate expressions obtained in \cite{Anima} for the probability distribution functions using the spectral hierarchy method are analyzed. In addition, the mechanism of appearance of the universal statistical properties of spectral fluctuations of quantum-chaotic systems is considered in terms of the semiclassical theory of periodic orbits.

id: quant-ph/0503221
title: Tensor products of convex sets and the volume of separable states on N qudits
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Stanislaw J. Szarek
comments: 15 pages; this version includes minor changes in exposition; no new results but some numerical constants improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 73, 022109 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503221
abstract: This note deals with estimating the volume of the set of separable mixed quantum states when the dimension of the state space grows to infinity. This has been studied recently for qubits; here we consider larger particles and conclude that, in all cases, the proportion of the states that are separable is super-exponentially small in the dimension of the set. We also show that the partial transpose criterion becomes imprecise when the dimension increases, and that the lower bound $6^{-N/2}$ on the (Hilbert-Schmidt) inradius of the set of separable states on N qubits obtained recently by Gurvits and Barnum is essentially optimal. We employ standard tools of classical convexity, high-dimensional probability and geometry of Banach spaces. One relatively non-standard point is a formal introduction of the concept of projective tensor products of convex bodies, and an initial study of this concept. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Mn, 03.65.Db, 02.40.Ft, 02.50.Cw MSC-class: 46B28, 47B10, 47L05, 52A38, 81P68

id: quant-ph/0503222
title: Quantum projection filter for a highly nonlinear model in cavity QED
authors: Ramon van Handel, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures. A version with high quality images can be found at this http URL
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S226-S236.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503222
abstract: Both in classical and quantum stochastic control theory a major role is played by the filtering equation, which recursively updates the information state of the system under observation. Unfortunately, the theory is plagued by infinite-dimensionality of the information state which severely limits its practical applicability, except in a few select cases (e.g. the linear Gaussian case.) One solution proposed in classical filtering theory is that of the projection filter. In this scheme, the filter is constrained to evolve in a finite-dimensional family of densities through orthogonal projection on the tangent space with respect to the Fisher metric. Here we apply this approach to the simple but highly nonlinear quantum model of optical phase bistability of a stongly coupled two-level atom in an optical cavity. We observe near-optimal performance of the quantum projection filter, demonstrating the utility of such an approach.

id: quant-ph/0503223
title: Inversion of Gamow's Formula and Inverse Scattering
authors: S.C. Gandhi, C.J. Efthimiou
comments: LaTeX, 6 figurs in eps format. New abstract; notation in last equation has been corrected
journal: American Journal of Physics 74 (2006) 638
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503223
abstract: We present a pedagogical description of the inversion of Gamow's tunnelling formula and we compare it with the corresponding classical problem. We also discuss the issue of uniqueness in the solution and the result is compared with that obtained by the method of Gel'fand and Levitan. We hope that the article will be a valuable source to students who have studied classical mechanics and have some familiarity with quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0503224
title: Resolution in rotation measurements
authors: Stephen M Barnett, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503224
abstract: The limiting resolution in optical interferometry is set by the number of photons used, with the functional dependence determined by the state of light that is prepared. We consider the problem of measuring the rotation of a beam of light about an optical axis and show how the limiting resolution depends on the total number of quanta of orbital angular momentum carried by the light beam.

id: quant-ph/0503225
title: Quantum Averages of Weak Values
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Alonso Botero
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, Revtex 4. Paper has been shortened. Section on large- sample measurements has been removed. The discussion on this topic has been deferred to a future publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052111 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503225
abstract: We re-examine the status of the weak value of a quantum mechanical observable as an objective physical concept, addressing its physical interpretation and general domain of applicability. We show that the weak value can be regarded as a \emph{definite} mechanical effect on a measuring probe specifically designed to minimize the back-reaction on the measured system. We then present a new framework for general measurement conditions (where the back-reaction on the system may not be negligible) in which the measurement outcomes can still be interpreted as \emph{quantum averages of weak values}. We show that in the classical limit, there is a direct correspondence between quantum averages of weak values and posterior expectation values of classical dynamical properties according to the classical inference framework.

id: quant-ph/0503226
title: Robust Hadamard gate for optical and ion trap holonomic quantum computers
authors: V.I. Kuvshinov, A.V. Kuzmin
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Physics Letters A vol.341, No.5-6 (2005) pp.450-453
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503226
abstract: We consider one possible implementation of Hadamard gate for optical and ion trap holonomic quantum computers. The expression for its fidelity determining the gate stability with respect to the errors in the single-mode squeezing parameter control is analytically derived. We demonstrate by means of this expression the cancellation of the squeezing control errors up to the fourth order on their magnitude.

id: quant-ph/0503227
title: Generating qudits with d=3,4 encoded on two-photon states
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Mataloni, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure. Minor changes. The title has been changed for publication on Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062337 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503227
abstract: We present an experimental method to engineer arbitrary pure states of qudits with d=3,4 using linear optics and a single nonlinear crystal.

id: quant-ph/0503228
title: Physics of Factorization
authors: M. Revzen, A. Mann, J. Zak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503228
abstract: The N distinct prime numbers that make up a composite number M allow $2^{N-1}$ bi partioning into two relatively prime factors. Each such pair defines a pair of conjugate representations. These pairs of conjugate representations, each of which spans the M dimensional space are the familiar complete sets of Zak transforms (J. Zak, Phys. Rev. Let.{\bf 19}, 1385 (1967)) which are the most natural representations for periodic systems. Here we show their relevance to factorizations. An example is provided for the manifestation of the factorization.

id: quant-ph/0503229
title: On the plasticity of nonlocal quantum correlations
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, revised
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics 55(5), 547-553 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503229
abstract: The quantum correlations of two or more entangled particles present the possibility of stronger-than-classical outcome coincidences. We investigate two-partite correlations of spin one, three-half and higher quanta in a state satisfying a uniqueness property in the sense that knowledge of an outcome of one particle observable entails the certainty that, if this observable were measured on the other particle(s) as well, the outcome of the measurement would be a unique function of the outcome of the measurement performed. We also investigate correlations of four spin one-half particles.

id: quant-ph/0503230
title: Programmable Quantum Networks with Pure States
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 12pt, 34 pages, 21 eps files, quality of ray-traced figures is reduced to make files smaller; it is slightly modified preprint version of invited chapter submitted to Nova Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503230
abstract: Modern classical computing devices, except of simplest calculators, have von Neumann architecture, i.e., a part of the memory is used for the program and a part for the data. It is likely, that analogues of such architecture are also desirable for the future applications in quantum computing, communications and control. It is also interesting for the modern theoretical research in the quantum information science and raises challenging questions about an experimental assessment of such a programmable models. Together with some progress in the given direction, such ideas encounter specific problems arising from the very essence of quantum laws. Currently are known two different ways to overcome such problems, sometime denoted as a stochastic and deterministic approach. The presented paper is devoted to the second one, that is also may be called the programmable quantum networks with pure states. In the paper are discussed basic principles and theoretical models that can be used for the design of such nano-devices, e.g., the conditional quantum dynamics, the Nielsen-Chuang "no-programming theorem, the idea of deterministic and stochastic quantum gates arrays. Both programmable quantum networks with finite registers and hybrid models with continuous quantum variables are considered. As a basic model for the universal programmable quantum network with pure states and finite program register is chosen a "Control-Shift" quantum processor architecture with three buses introduced in earlier works. It is shown also, that quantum cellular automata approach to the construction of an universal programmable quantum computer often may be considered as the particular case of such design.

id: quant-ph/0503231
title: Finite-time stochastic reduction models
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 4 Pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46, 082101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503231
abstract: A new energy-based stochastic extension of the Schrodinger equation for which the wave function collapses after the passage of a finite amount of time is proposed. An exact closed-form solution to the dynamical equation, valid for all finite-dimensional quantum systems, is presented and used to verify explicitly that reduction of the state vector to an energy eigenstate occurs. A time-change technique is introduced to construct a `clock' variable that relates the asymptotic and the finite-time collapse models by means of a nonlinear transformation.

id: quant-ph/0503232
title: Nonlocality of single fermions - branches that borrow particles
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503232
abstract: An experiment performed in 2002 by Sciarrino et al. provided a simple proof of the nonlocality of a single photon whose wave function is multi-branched. The difference between this experiment and others similar, is that the tester-particle used by Sciarrino to "feel" this nonlocality is another photon identical to the tested one. Such an experiment be can in principle performed with fermions too, and this is the case ivestigated in this article. The novel phenomenon revealed by Sciarrino's experiment, is the particle "borrowing". If a single particle is described by a two-branched wave function, then only one of these branches produces a detection at a time, the other ranch remains "silent". What happens in this experiment is that the silent branch "borrows" a particle from another source, if available in the neighborhood, and also produces a detection. To illustrate this feature more obviously, a modificaton of Sciarrino's experiment is proposed. Two sources of particles are made available in the neighborhood of the two branches. What then happens is that each branch takes and populates itself with a particle from whichever source is at hand.

id: quant-ph/0503233
title: Classical and Quantum Contents of Solvable Game Theory on Hilbert Space
authors: Taksu Cheon, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 4 Pages, REVTeX, 3 Figures, 1 Table. Abstract, introduction and conclusion are revised. For higher resolution figures, go to this http URL
journal: Physics Letters A 348 (2006) 147-152
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503233
abstract: A simple and general formulation of the quantum game theory is presented, accommodating all possible strategies in the Hilbert space for the first time. The theory is solvable for the two strategy quantum game, which is shown to be equivalent to a family of classical games supplemented by quantum interference. Our formulation gives a clear perspective to understand why and how quantum strategies outmaneuver classical strategies. It also reveals novel aspects of quantum games such as the stone-scissor-paper phase sub-game and the fluctuation-induced moderation.

id: quant-ph/0503234
title: Entanglement Decay Versus Energy Change: A Model
authors: Ting Yu
comments: 3.5 pages, a few small corrections are made, no conclusions are changed
journal: Phys. Lett. A 361, 287 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503234
abstract: We present a simple quantum open system to show quantitatively how entanglement decoherence is related to the energy transfer between the system of interest and its environment. Particularly, in the case of the exact entanglement decoherence of two qubits, we find an upper bound for the energy transfer between the two-qubit system and its environments.

id: quant-ph/0503235
title: Solvability and PT-symmetry in a double-well model with point interactions
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Vit Jakubsky
comments: 24 p., written for the special journal issue "Singular Interactions in Quantum Mechanics: Solvable Models". Will be also presented to the int. conference "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics III" (Instanbul, Koc University, June 20 - 22, 2005) this http URL
journal: J.Phys.A38:5041,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503235
abstract: We show that and how point interactions offer one of the most suitable guides towards a quantitative analysis of properties of certain specific non-Hermitian (usually called PT-symmetric) quantum-mechanical systems. A double-well model is chosen, an easy solvability of which clarifies the mechanisms of the unavoided level crossing and of the spontaneous PT-symmetry breaking. The latter phenomenon takes place at a certain natural boundary of the domain of the "acceptable" parameters of the model. Within this domain the model mediates a nice and compact explicit illustration of the not entirely standard probabilistic interpretation of the physical bound states in the very recently developed (so called PT symmetric or, in an alternative terminology, pseudo-Hermitian) new, fairly exciting and very quickly developing branch of Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0503236
title: On Self-Dual Quantum Codes, Graphs, and Boolean Functions
authors: Lars Eirik Danielsen
comments: Master's thesis. 105 pages, 33 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503236
abstract: A short introduction to quantum error correction is given, and it is shown that zero-dimensional quantum codes can be represented as self-dual additive codes over GF(4) and also as graphs. We show that graphs representing several such codes with high minimum distance can be described as nested regular graphs having minimum regular vertex degree and containing long cycles. Two graphs correspond to equivalent quantum codes if they are related by a sequence of local complementations. We use this operation to generate orbits of graphs, and thus classify all inequivalent self-dual additive codes over GF(4) of length up to 12, where previously only all codes of length up to 9 were known. We show that these codes can be interpreted as quadratic Boolean functions, and we define non-quadratic quantum codes, corresponding to Boolean functions of higher degree. We look at various cryptographic properties of Boolean functions, in particular the propagation criteria. The new aperiodic propagation criterion (APC) and the APC distance are then defined. We show that the distance of a zero-dimensional quantum code is equal to the APC distance of the corresponding Boolean function. Orbits of Boolean functions with respect to the {I,H,N}^n transform set are generated. We also study the peak-to-average power ratio with respect to the {I,H,N}^n transform set (PAR_IHN), and prove that PAR_IHN of a quadratic Boolean function is related to the size of the maximum independent set over the corresponding orbit of graphs. A construction technique for non-quadratic Boolean functions with low PAR_IHN is proposed. It is finally shown that both PAR_IHN and APC distance can be interpreted as partial entanglement measures.

id: quant-ph/0503237
title: Gaussian states in continuous variable quantum information
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: Lecture notes, 100 pages
journal: (Bibliopolis, Napoli, 2005) ISBN 88-7088-483-X
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503237
abstract: These notes originated out of a set of lectures in Quantum Optics and Quantum Information given by one of us (MGAP) at the University of Napoli and the University of Milano. A quite broad set of issues are covered, ranging from elementary concepts to current research topics, and from fundamental concepts to applications. A special emphasis has been given to the phase space analysis of quantum dynamics and to the role of Gaussian states in continuous variable quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0503238
title: Optimization of Partial Search
authors: Vladimir Korepin
comments: 5 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Gen. vol 38, pages L731-L738, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503238
abstract: Quantum Grover search algorithm can find a target item in a database faster than any classical algorithm. One can trade accuracy for speed and find a part of the database (a block) containing the target item even faster, this is partial search. A partial search algorithm was recently suggested by Grover and Radhakrishnan. Here we optimize it. Efficiency of the search algorithm is measured by number of queries to the oracle. The author suggests new version of Grover-Radhakrishnan algorithm which uses minimal number of queries to the oracle. The algorithm can run on the same hardware which is used for the usual Grover algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0503239
title: On Approximately Symmetric Informationally Complete Positive Operator-Valued Measures and Related Systems of Quantum States
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler, Igor Shparlinski, Arne Winterhof
comments: 29 pages, LaTeX
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 46:082104, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503239
abstract: We address the problem of constructing positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) in finite dimension $n$ consisting of $n^2$ operators of rank one which have an inner product close to uniform. This is motivated by the related question of constructing symmetric informationally complete POVMs (SIC-POVMs) for which the inner products are perfectly uniform. However, SIC-POVMs are notoriously hard to construct and despite some success of constructing them numerically, there is no analytic construction known. We present two constructions of approximate versions of SIC-POVMs, where a small deviation from uniformity of the inner products is allowed. The first construction is based on selecting vectors from a maximal collection of mutually unbiased bases and works whenever the dimension of the system is a prime power. The second construction is based on perturbing the matrix elements of a subset of mutually unbiased bases. Moreover, we construct vector systems in $\C^n$ which are almost orthogonal and which might turn out to be useful for quantum computation. Our constructions are based on results of analytic number theory.

id: quant-ph/0503240
title: A Scheme of Generating and Spatially Separating Two-Component Entangled Atom Lasers
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, Xin Liu, Ming-Sheng Zhan, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 8 pages, 3 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503240
abstract: Entanglement of remote atom lasers is obtained via quantum state transfer technique from lights to matter waves in a five-level $M$-type system. The considered atom-atom collisions can yield an effective Kerr susceptibility for this system and lead to the self- and cross- phase modulation between the two output atom lasers. This effect results in generation of entangled states of output fields. Particularly, under different conditions of space-dependent control fields, the entanglement of atom lasers and of atom-light fields can be obtained, respectively. Furthermore, based on the Bell-state measurement, an useful scheme is proposed to spatially separate the generated entangled atom lasers.

id: quant-ph/0503241
title: Stochastic simulations of conditional states of partially observed systems, quantum and classical
authors: Jay Gambetta, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 7, S250 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503241
abstract: In a partially observed quantum or classical system the information that we cannot access results in our description of the system becoming mixed even if we have perfect initial knowledge. That is, if the system is quantum the conditional state will be given by a state matrix $\rho_r(t)$ and if classical the conditional state will be given by a probability distribution $P_r(x,t)$ where $r$ is the result of the measurement. Thus to determine the evolution of this conditional state under continuous-in-time monitoring requires an expensive numerical calculation. In this paper we demonstrating a numerical technique based on linear measurement theory that allows us to determine the conditional state using only pure states. That is, our technique reduces the problem size by a factor of $N$, the number of basis states for the system. Furthermore we show that our method can be applied to joint classical and quantum systems as arises in modeling realistic measurement.

id: quant-ph/0503242
title: The Episodic Time Interpretation of Reality
authors: Daniel Klotzer
comments: 69 pages including 6 figures & 2 appendices; Main Paper is 39 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503242
abstract: A notably enhanced comprehension of the underlying meaning of quantum observations is achieved via a novel premise. Assessments, from first principles, are made of unexamined presumptions that lie at the heart of both conventional conceptions of the nature of physical existence and most interpretations of Quantum Mechanics. An alternative hypothesis, termed Episodic Time Inhabitation, is proposed to resolve major Quantum quandaries, including the EPR paradox. A logical argument gedanken experiment demonstrates that the conventional presumptions appear to create causal loops, and that Episodic Time Inhabitation avoids them. A physically realizable version of the gedanken experiment is outlined, and currently testable predictions for its outcome are made. Consequences of the experiment are summarized and ramifications of the hypothesis are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0503243
title: Scalable Noise Estimation with Random Unitary Operators
authors: Joseph Emerson, Robert Alicki, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 8 pages; v2: published version (typos corrected; reference added)
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S347-S352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503243
abstract: We describe a scalable stochastic method for the experimental measurement of generalized fidelities characterizing the accuracy of the implementation of a coherent quantum transformation. The method is based on the motion reversal of random unitary operators. In the simplest case our method enables direct estimation of the average gate fidelity. The more general fidelities are characterized by a universal exponential rate of fidelity loss. In all cases the measurable fidelity decrease is directly related to the strength of the noise affecting the implementation -- quantified by the trace of the superoperator describing the non--unitary dynamics. While the scalability of our stochastic protocol makes it most relevant in large Hilbert spaces (when quantum process tomography is infeasible), our method should be immediately useful for evaluating the degree of control that is achievable in any prototype quantum processing device. By varying over different experimental arrangements and error-correction strategies additional information about the noise can be determined.

id: cond-mat/0503016
title: Quasiparticle entanglement: redefinition of the vacuum and reduced density matrix approach
authors: P. Samuelsson, E.V. Sukhorukov, M. Buttiker
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics, Focused Issue on "Solid State Quantum Information". 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: New. J. Phys. 7, 176 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503016
abstract: A scattering approach to entanglement in mesoscopic conductors with independent fermionic quasiparticles is discussed. We focus on conductors in the tunneling limit, where a redefinition of the quasiparticle vacuum transforms the wavefunction from a manybody product state of noninteracting particles to a state describing entangled two-particle excitations out of the new vacuum. The approach is illustrated with two examples (i) a normal-superconducting system, where the transformation is made between Bogoliubov-de Gennes quasiparticles and Cooper pairs, and (ii) a normal system, where the transformation is made between electron quasiparticles and electron-hole pairs. This is compared to a scheme where an effective two-particle state is derived from the manybody scattering state by a reduced density matrix approach.

id: cond-mat/0503021
title: Analytic Relations between Localizable Entanglement and String Correlations in Spin Systems
authors: L. Campos Venuti, M. Roncaglia
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 207207 (2005).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503021
abstract: We study the relation between the recently defined localizable entanglement and generalized correlations in quantum spin systems. Differently from the current belief, the localizable entanglement is always given by the average of a generalized string. Using symmetry arguments we show that in most spin 1/2 and spin 1 systems the localizable entanglement reduces to the spin-spin or string correlations, respectively. We prove that a general class of spin 1 systems, which includes the Heisenberg model, can be used as perfect quantum channel. These conclusions are obtained in analytic form and confirm some results found previously on numerical grounds.

id: cond-mat/0503065
title: Bond Distortions in Armchair Type Single Wall Carbon Nanotubes
authors: N. Sunel, E. Rizaoglu, K. Harigaya, O. Ozsoy
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 338 (2005) 366-372
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503065
abstract: The energy band gap structure and stability of (3,3) and (10,10) nanotubes have been comparatively investigated in the frameworks of the traditional form of the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH) model and a toy model including the contributions of bonds of different types to the SSH Hamiltonian differently. Both models give the same energy band gap structure but bond length distortions in different characters for the nanotubes.

id: cond-mat/0503170
title: Thermal entanglement properties of small spin clusters
authors: Indrani Bose, Amit Tribedi
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022314 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503170
abstract: Exchange interactions in spin systems can give rise to quantum entanglement in the ground and thermal states of the systems. In this paper, we consider a spin tetramer, with spins of magnitude 1/2, in which the spins interact via nearest-neighbour, diagonal and four-spin interactions of strength J1, J2 and K respectively. The ground and thermal state entanglement properties of the tetramer are calculated analytically in the various limiting cases. Signatures of quantum phase transition (QPT) in terms of appropriate entanglement measures are obtained. The magnetic properties of a S = 1/2 AFM polyoxovanadate compound, V12, are well explained by spin tetramers with only nearest-neighbour exchange interactions. Treating the magnetic susceptibility chi as an entanglement witness (EW), an estimate of the lower bound of the critical entanglement temperature, T_c, above which the multipartite entanglement disappears in the experimental compound, is determined. A second EW based on energy provides an estimate of the entanglement temperature T_E, below which bipartite entanglement is certainly present in the system, is determined. The cases of the symmetric trimer and the tetrahedron are also considered.

id: cond-mat/0503187
title: Non-Abelian gauge potentials for ultra-cold atoms with degenerate dark states
authors: J. Ruseckas, G. Juzeliunas, P. Oehberg, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 010404 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503187
abstract: We show that the adiabatic motion of ultra-cold, multi-level atoms in spatially varying laser fields can give rise to effective non-Abelian gauge fields if degenerate adiabatic eigenstates of the atom-laser interaction exist. A pair of such degenerate dark states emerges e.g. if laser fields couple three internal states of an atom to a fourth common one under pairwise two--photon-resonance conditions. For this so-called tripod scheme we derive general conditions for truly non-Abelian gauge potentials and discuss special examples. In particular we show that using orthogonal laser beams with orbital angular momentum an effective magnetic field can be generated that has a monopole component.

id: cond-mat/0503235
title: Entanglement used to identify critical systems
authors: S. O. Skr?vseth, K. Olaussen
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 (2005) 022318
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503235
abstract: We promote use of the geometric entropy formula derived by Holzhey et. al. from conformal field theory, $S_\ell\sim ({c}/{3}) \log(\sin{\pi\ell}/{N})$, to identify critical regions in zero temperature 1D quantum systems. The method is demonstrated on a class of one-dimensional XY and $XYZ$ spin-1/2 chains, where the critical regions and their correponding central charges can be reproduced with quite modest computational efforts.

id: cond-mat/0503240
title: Finite-size scaling exponents in the interacting boson model
authors: S. Dusuel, J. Vidal, J. M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J. E. Garcia-Ramos
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. C 72, 011301 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503240
abstract: We investigate the finite-size scaling exponents for the critical point at the shape phase transition from U(5) (spherical) to O(6) (deformed $\gamma$-unstable) dynamical symmetries of the Interacting Boson Model, making use of the Holstein-Primakoff boson expansion and the continuous unitary transformation technique. We compute exactly the leading order correction to the ground state energy, the gap, the expectation value of the $d$-boson number in the ground state and the $E2$ transition probability from the ground state to the first excited state, and determine the corresponding finite-size scaling exponents.

id: cond-mat/0503258
title: A controllable nanomechanical memory element
authors: Robert L. Badzey, Guiti Zolfagharkhani, Alexei Gaidarzhy, Pritiraj Mohanty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503258
abstract: We report the realization of a completely controllable high-speed nanomechanical memory element fabricated from single-crystal silicon wafers. This element consists of a doubly-clamped suspended nanomechanical beam structure, which can be made to switch controllably between two stable and distinct states at a single frequency in the megahertz range. Because of their sub-micron size and high normal-mode frequencies, these nanomechanical memory elements offer the potential to rival the current state-of-the-art electronic data storage and processing.

id: cond-mat/0503259
title: Temperature dependence of a nanomechanical switch
authors: Robert L. Badzey, Guiti Zolfagharkhani, Alexei Gaidarzhy, Pritiraj Mohanty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503259
abstract: We present the effect of temperature on the switching characteristics of a bistable nonlinear nanomechanical beam. At MHz-range frequencies, we find that it is possible to controllably change the state of the system between two stable mechanical states defined by the hysteresis brought on by nonlinear excitation. We find that the introduction of increased temperature results in a loss of switching fidelity, and that temperature acts as an effective source of external noise on the dynamics of the system.

id: cond-mat/0503260
title: Evidence for Quantized Displacement in Macroscopic Nanomechanical Oscillators
authors: Alexei Gaidarzhy, Guiti Zolfagharkhani, Robert L. Badzey, Pritiraj Mohanty
comments: 4 pages, two-column format. Related papers available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 030402 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503260
abstract: We report the observation of discrete displacement of nanomechanical oscillators with gigahertz-range resonance frequencies at millikelvin temperatures. The oscillators are nanomachined single-crystal structures of silicon, designed to provide two distinct sets of coupled elements with very low and very high frequencies. With this novel design, femtometer-level displacement of the frequency-determining element is amplified into collective motion of the entire micron-sized structure. The observed discrete response possibly results from energy quantization at the onset of the quantum regime in these macroscopic nanomechanical oscillators.

id: cond-mat/0503266
title: Quantum Hall Effect In Bilayer Systems And The Noncommutative Plane: A Toy Model Approach
authors: B. Basu, Subir Ghosh
comments: Slightly expanded version, Eqs. (18) and (19) added, Conclusions unchanged, To appear in Phys.Lett.A
journal: Phys.Lett. A346 (2005) 133-140
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503266
abstract: We have presented a quantum mechanical toy model for the study of Coulomb interactions in Quantum Hall (QH) system. Inclusion of Coulomb interaction is essential for the study of {\it{bilayer}} QH system and our model can simulate it, in the compound state, in a perturbative framework. We also show that in the noncommutative plane, the Coulomb interaction is modified at a higher order in the noncommutativity parameter $\theta$, and only if $\theta$ varies from layer to layer in the QH system.

id: cond-mat/0503378
title: Quantum Phases of the Extended Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian: Possibility of a Supersolid State of Cold Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: V.W. Scarola, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures Refernces Added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 033003 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503378
abstract: Cold atom optical lattices typically simulate zero-range Hubbard models. We discuss the theoretical possibility of using excited states of optical lattices to generate extended range Hubbard models. We find that bosons confined to higher bands of optical lattices allow for a rich phase diagram, including the supersolid phase. Using Gutzwiller, mean field theory we establish the parameter regime necessary to maintain metastable states generated by an extended Bose-Hubbard model.

id: cond-mat/0503393
title: Evolution of Entanglement Entropy in One-Dimensional Systems
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0504:P04010,2005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503393
abstract: We study the unitary time evolution of the entropy of entanglement of a one-dimensional system between the degrees of freedom in an interval of length l and its complement, starting from a pure state which is not an eigenstate of the hamiltonian. We use path integral methods of quantum field theory as well as explicit computations for the transverse Ising spin chain. In both cases, there is a maximum speed v of propagation of signals. In general the entanglement entropy increases linearly with time $t$ up to t=l/2v, after which it saturates at a value proportional to l, the coefficient depending on the initial state. This behavior may be understood as a consequence of causality.

id: cond-mat/0503492
title: Singlet-triplet splitting, correlation and entanglement of two electrons in quantum dot molecules
authors: Lixin He, Gabriel Bester, Alex Zunger
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 195307 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503492
abstract: Starting with an accurate pseudopotential description of the single-particle states, and following by configuration-interaction treatment of correlated electrons in vertically coupled, self-assembled InAs/GaAs quantum dot-molecules, we show how simpler, popularly-practiced approximations, depict the basic physical characteristics including the singlet-triplet splitting, degree of entanglement (DOE) and correlation. The mean-field-like single-configuration approaches such as Hartree-Fock and local spin density, lacking correlation, incorrectly identify the ground state symmetry and give inaccurate values for the singlet-triplet splitting and the DOE. The Hubbard model gives qualitatively correct results for the ground state symmetry and singlet-triplet splitting, but produces significant errors in the DOE because it ignores the fact that the strain is asymmetric even if the dots within a molecule are identical. Finally, the Heisenberg model gives qualitatively correct ground state symmetry and singlet-triplet splitting only for rather large inter-dot separations, but it greatly overestimates the DOE as a consequence of ignoring the electron double occupancy effect.

id: cond-mat/0503502
title: Comment on the "Comment by Schwab, Blencowe, Roukes, Cleland, Girvin, Milburn, and Ekinci: quant-ph/0503018"
authors: A. Gaidarzhy, G. Zolfagharkhani, R.L. Badzey, P. Mohanty
comments: minor changes made
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503502
abstract: We show that arguments in the comment by Schwab et al. quant-ph/0503018 on our recent work are invalid.

id: cond-mat/0503511
title: Dynamics of a Quantum Phase Transition
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek, Uwe Dorner, Peter Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Replaced by revised version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.95:105701,2005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503511
abstract: We present two approaches to the dynamics of a quench-induced phase transition in quantum Ising model. The first one retraces steps of the standard approach to thermodynamic second order phase transitions in the quantum setting. The second one is purely quantum, based on the Landau-Zener formula for transition probabilities in avoided level crossings. We show that the two approaches yield compatible results for the scaling of the defect density with the quench rate. We exhibit similarities between them, and comment on the insights they give into dynamics of quantum phase transitions.

id: cond-mat/0503549
title: Heat conductivity in small quantum systems: Kubo formula in Liouville space
authors: Mathias Michel, Jochen Gemmer, Guenter Mahler
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 42, 555-559 (2004)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503549
abstract: We consider chains consisting of several identical subsystems weakly coupled by various types of next neighbor interactions. At both ends the chain is coupled to a respective heat bath with different temperature modeled by a Lindblad formalism. The temperature gradient introduced by this environment is then treated as an external perturbation. We propose a method to evaluate the heat current and the local temperature profile of the resulting stationary state as well as the heat conductivity in such systems. This method is similar to Kubo techniques used e.g. for electrical transport but extended here to the Liouville space.

id: cond-mat/0503550
title: Fourier's Law confirmed for a class of small quantum systems
authors: Mathias Michel, Michael Hartmann, Jochen Gemmer, Guenter Mahler
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 34, 325-330 (2003)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503550
abstract: Within the Lindblad formalism we consider an interacting spin chain coupled locally to heat baths. We investigate the dependence of the energy transport on the type of interaction in the system as well as on the overall interaction strength. For a large class of couplings we find a normal heat conduction and confirm Fourier's Law. In a fully quantum mechanical approach linear transport behavior appears to be generic even for small quantum systems.

id: cond-mat/0503581
title: Quantum backreaction in dilute Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Ralf Schtzhold, Michael Uhlmann, Yan Xu, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 8 pages of RevTex4; extended discussion with additional sections, to be published in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D72:105005,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503581
abstract: For many physical systems which can be approximated by a classical background field plus small (linearized) quantum fluctuations, a fundamental question concerns the correct description of the backreaction of the quantum fluctuations onto the dynamics of the classical background. We investigate this problem for the example of dilute atomic/molecular Bose-Einstein condensates, for which the microscopic dynamical behavior is under control. It turns out that the effective-action technique does not yield the correct result in general and that the knowledge of the pseudo-energy-momentum tensor ${<\hat T_{\mu\nu}>}$ is not sufficient to describe quantum backreaction.

id: cond-mat/0503600
title: Single-site entanglement at superconductor-insulator transition in the Hirsch model
authors: Alberto Anfossi, Cristian Degli Esposti Boschi, Arianna Montorsi, Fabio Ortolani
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev B 73, 085113 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503600
abstract: We investigate the transition to the insulating state in the one-dimensional Hubbard model with bond-charge interaction x (Hirsch model), at half-filling and T=0. By means of the density-matrix renormalization group algorithm the charge gap closure is examined by both standard finite size scaling analysis and looking at singularities in the derivatives of single-site entanglement. The results of the two techniques show that a quantum phase transition takes place at a finite Coulomb interaction u_c(x) for x>0.5. The region 0<u<u_c turns out to have a superconducting nature, at least for not too large x>x_c.

id: cond-mat/0503676
title: Transfer of entanglement from electrons to photons by optical selection rules
authors: M. Titov, B. Trauzettel, B. Michaelis, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 6 pages; contribution for the focus issue of New Journal of Physics on "Solid State Quantum Information"; revised in response to referee reports
journal: New Journal of Physics 7, 186 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503676
abstract: The entanglement transfer from electrons localized in a pair of quantum dots to circularly polarized photons is governed by optical selection rules, enforced by conservation of angular momentum. We point out that the transfer can not be achieved by means of unitary evolution unless the angular momentum of the two initial qubit states differs by 2 units. In particular, for spin-entangled electrons the difference in angular momentum is 1 unit -- so the transfer fails. Nevertheless, the transfer can be successfully completed if the unitary evolution is followed by a measurement of the angular momentum of each quantum dot and post-processing of the photons using the measured values as input.

id: cond-mat/0503684
title: Canonical quantization of classical systems with generalized entropies
authors: A.M. Scarfone
comments: 11 pages, no figures, RevTeX4, accepted on Rep. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503684
abstract: We present, in the framework of the canonical quantization, a class of nonlinear Schroedinger equations with a complex nonlinearity describing, in the mean field approximation, systems of collectively interacting particles. The quantum evolution equation is obtained starting from the study of a N-body classical system where the underlined nonlinear kinetics is governed by a kinetic interaction principle (KIP) recently proposed [G. Kaniadakis: Physica A 296 (2001), 405--425]. The KIP, both imposes the form of the generalized entropy associated to the classical system, and determines the Fokker-Planck equation describing the kinetic evolution of the system towards equilibrium. Keywords: Nonlinear Schroedinger equation, Nonlinear kinetics, Generalized entropy.

id: cond-mat/0503706
title: Casimir-like force arising from quantum fluctuations in a slow-moving dilute Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. C. Roberts, Y. Pomeau
comments: v3: revised discussion of toroidal geometry; replotted figure; minor editorial changes; quantitative and qualitative conclusions remain unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 145303 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0503706
abstract: We calculate a force due to zero-temperature quantum fluctuations on a stationary object in a moving superfluid flow. We model the object by a localized potential varying only in the flow direction and model the flow by a three-dimensional weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature. We show that this force exists for any arbitrarily small flow velocity and discuss the implications for the stability of superfluid flow.

id: gr-qc/0503038
title: Deformed dispersion relations and the Hanbury--Brown--Twiss Effect
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: Accepted in General Relativity and Gravitation
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 37 (2005) 1405-1410
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503038
abstract: In the present work we analyze the possibility of detecting some deformed dispersion relations, emerging in some quantum--gravity models, resorting to the so--called Hanbury--Brown--Twiss effect. It will be proved that in some scenarios the possibilities are not pessimistic. Forsooth, for some values of the corresponding parameters the aforementioned effect could render interesting outcomes.

id: gr-qc/0503046
title: Quantum Measurements and the kappa--Poincare Group
authors: Abel Camacho, A. Camacho-Galvan
comments: Accepted in General Relativity and Gravitation. Dedicated to Alberto Garcia on the occasion of his 60th. birthday
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav. 37 (2005) 651-657
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503046
abstract: The possible description of the vacuum of quantum gravity through the so called kappa--Poincare group is analyzed considering some of the consequences of this symmetry in the path integral formulation of nonrelativistic quantum theory. This study is carried out with two cases, firstly, a free particle, and finally, the situation of a particle immersed in a homogeneous gravitational field. It will be shown that the kappa--Poincare group implies the loss of some of the basic properties associated to Feynman's path integral. For instance, loss of the group characteristic related to the time dependence of the evolution operator, or the breakdown of the composition law for amplitudes of events occurring successively in time. Additionally some similarities between the present idea and the so called restricted path integral formalism will be underlined. These analogies advocate the claim that if the kappa--Poincare group contains some of the physical information of the quantum gravity vacuum, then this vacuum could entail decoherence. This last result will also allow us to consider the possibility of analyzing the continuous measurement problem of quantum theory from a group--theoretical point of view, but now taking into account the kappa--Poincare symmetries.

id: gr-qc/0503060
title: On three quantization methods for particle on hyperboloid
authors: Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Marc Lachieze-Rey, Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 22 pages, no figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503060
abstract: We compare the respective efficiencies of three quantization methods (group theoretical, coherent state and geometric) by quantizing the dynamics of a free massive particle in two-dimensional de Sitter space. For each case we consider the realization of the principal series representation of $SO_0(1,2) $ group and its two-fold covering SU(1,1). We demonstrate that standard technique for finding an irreducible representation within the geometric quantization scheme fails. For consistency we recall our earlier results concerning the other two methods, make some improvements and generalizations.

id: gr-qc/0503094
title: Relating Quantum Information to Charged Black Holes
authors: Xian-Hui Ge, You-Gen Shen
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D14:1321,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503094
abstract: Quantum non-cloning theorem and a thought experiment are discussed for charged black holes whose global structure exhibits an event and a Cauchy horizon. We take Reissner-Norstr\"{o}m black holes and two-dimensional dilaton black holes as concrete examples. The results show that the quantum non-cloning theorem and the black hole complementarity are far from consistent inside the inner horizon. The relevance of this work to non-local measurements is briefly discussed.

id: gr-qc/0503114
title: Continuous distribution of frequencies and deformed dispersion relations
authors: Abel Camacho
comments: Accepted in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 22 (2005) 2101-2106
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503114
abstract: The possibilities that, in the realm of the detection of the so--called deformed dispersion relation, a light source with a continuous distribution of frequencies offers is discussed. It will be proved that the presence of finite coherence length entails the emergence of a new term in the interference pattern. This is a novel trait, which renders a new possibility in the quest for bounds associated with these deformed dispersion relations.

id: gr-qc/0503116
title: Quantum Mechanics without spacetime V - Why a quantum theory of gravity should be non-linear-
authors: T.P.Singh, Sashideep Gutti, Rakesh Tibrewala
comments: slightly expanded version; clarifying comments added; conclusions unchanged; 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503116
abstract: If there exists a formulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to a background classical spacetime manifold, it then follows as a consequence, (upon making one plausible assumption), that a quantum description of gravity should be necessarily non-linear. This is true independent of the mathematical structure used for describing such a formulation of quantum mechanics. A specific model which exhibits this non-linearity is constructed, using the language of noncommutative geometry. We derive a non-linear Schrodinger equation for the quantum dynamics of a particle; this equation reduces to the standard linear Schrodinger equation when the mass of the particle is much smaller than Planck mass. It turns out that the non-linear equation found by us is very similar to a non-linear Schrodinger equation found by Doebner and Goldin in 1992 from considerations of unitary representaions of the infinite-dimensional group of diffeomorphisms in three spatial dimensions. Our analysis suggests that the diffusion constant introduced by Doebner and Goldin depends on the mass of the particle, and that this constant tends to zero in the limit in which the particle mass is much smaller than Planck mass, so that in this limit the non-linear theory reduces to standard linear quantum mechanics. A similar effective non-linear Schrodinger equation was also found for the quantum dynamics of a system of D0-branes, by Mavromatos and Szabo.

id: hep-th/0503034
title: Nonassociativity, Dirac monopoles and Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov
comments: Revised version. Typos corrected. References added
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys., 04, 717 (2007)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503034
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect for the singular string associated with the Dirac monopole carrying an arbitrary magnetic charge is studied. It is shown that the emerging difficulties in explanation of the AB effect may be removed by introducing nonassociative path-dependent wave functions. This provides the absence of the AB effect for the Dirac string of magnetic monopole with an arbitrary magnetic charge.

id: hep-th/0503040
title: Infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group and Dirac's monopole problem
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Fermin Aceves de la Cruz
comments: JHEP style. Extended version of hep-th/0403146. Revised version, title and some notations are changed. References and Appendix B are added
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 49, 013505 ?2008?
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503040
abstract: Within the context of infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group the Dirac monopole problem is studied in details. Irreducible infinite-dimensional representations, being realized in the indefinite metric Hilbert space, are given by linear unbounded operators in infinite-dimensional topological spaces, supplied with a weak topology and associated weak convergence. We argue that an arbitrary magnetic charge is allowed, and the Dirac quantization condition can be replaced by a generalized quantization rule yielding a new quantum number, the so-called topological spin, which is related to the weight of the Dirac string.

id: hep-th/0503069
title: Determinism and a supersymmetric classical model of quantum fields
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX. Based on talk at DICE2004, Piombino (Italy), September 1-4, 2004. -- To appear in Brazilian Journal of Physics
journal: Braz.J.Phys. 35, 2A (2005) 343
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503069
abstract: A quantum field theory is described which is a supersymmetric classical model. -- Supersymmetry generators of the system are used to split its Liouville operator into two contributions, with positive and negative spectrum, respectively. The unstable negative part is eliminated by a positivity constraint on physical states, which is invariant under the classical Hamiltonian flow. In this way, the classical Liouville equation becomes a functional Schroedinger equation of a genuine quantum field theory. Thus, 't Hooft's proposal to reconstruct quantum theory as emergent from an underlying deterministic system, is realized here for a field theory. Quantization is intimately related to the constraint, which selects the part of Hilbert space where the Hamilton operator is positive. This is seen as dynamical symmetry breaking in a suitably extended model, depending on a mass scale which discriminates classical dynamics beneath from emergent quantum mechanical behaviour.

id: hep-th/0503087
title: Waves on Noncommutative Spacetimes
authors: A. P. Balachandran, Kumar S. Gupta, S. Kurkcuoglu
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, LaTeX, added references, corrected typos
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 025021
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503087
abstract: Waves on ``commutative'' spacetimes like R^d are elements of the commutative algebra C^0(R^d) of functions on R^d. When C^0(R^d) is deformed to a noncommutative algebra {\cal A}_\theta (R^d) with deformation parameter \theta ({\cal A}_0 (R^d) = C^0(R^d)), waves being its elements, are no longer complex-valued functions on R^d. Rules for their interpretation, such as measurement of their intensity, and energy, thus need to be stated. We address this task here. We then apply the rules to interference and diffraction for d \leq 4 and with time-space noncommutativity. Novel phenomena are encountered. Thus when the time of observation T is so brief that T \leq 2 \theta w, where w is the frequency of incident waves, no interference can be observed. For larger times, the interference pattern is deformed and depends on \frac{\theta w}{T}. It approaches the commutative pattern only when \frac{\theta w}{T} goes to 0. As an application, we discuss interference of star light due to cosmic strings.

id: hep-th/0503158
title: The Casimir Effect and the Quantum Vacuum
authors: R. L. Jaffe
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, uses aip class and the package floatftm to float text around figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 021301
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503158
abstract: In discussions of the cosmological constant, the Casimir effect is often invoked as decisive evidence that the zero point energies of quantum fields are "real''. On the contrary, Casimir effects can be formulated and Casimir forces can be computed without reference to zero point energies. They are relativistic, quantum forces between charges and currents. The Casimir force (per unit area) between parallel plates vanishes as \alpha, the fine structure constant, goes to zero, and the standard result, which appears to be independent of \alpha, corresponds to the \alpha\to\infty limit.

id: hep-th/0503174
title: Universal properties of conformal quantum many-body systems
authors: S. Meljanac, A. Samsarov
comments: 9 pages, no figures, LaTex, the formula (23) is changed into the correct form without affecting the final result
journal: Phys.Lett.B613:221-225,2005; Erratum-ibid.B620:200,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0503174
abstract: Universal properties of many-body systems in conformal quantum mechanics in arbitrary dimensions are presented. Specially, a general structure of discrete energy spectra and eigenstates is found. Finally, a simple construction of a universal time operator conjugated to a conformal Hermitian or a $ PT-$ invariant Hamiltonian is proposed.

id: math-ph/0503013
title: The quantum fidelity for the time-dependent singular quantum oscillator
authors: M. Combescure
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 47 (2006) 032102
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0503013
abstract: In this paper we perform an exact study of ``Quantum Fidelity'' (also called Loschmidt Echo) for the time-periodic quantum Harmonic Oscillator of Hamiltonian : $$ \hat H\_{g}(t):=\frac{P^2}{2}+ f(t)\frac{Q^2}{2}+\frac{g^2}{Q^2} $$ when compared with the quantum evolution induced by $\hat H\_{0}(t)$ ($g=0$), in the case where $f$ is a $T$-periodic function and $g$ a real constant. The reference (initial) state is taken to be an arbitrary ``generalized coherent state'' in the sense of Perelomov. We show that, starting with a quadratic decrease in time in the neighborhood of $t=0$, this quantum fidelity may recur to its initial value 1 at an infinite sequence of times {$t\_{k}$}. We discuss the result when the classical motion induced by Hamiltonian $\hat H\_{0}(t)$ is assumed to be stable versus unstable. A beautiful relationship between the quantum and the classical fidelity is also demonstrated.

id: math-ph/0503040
title: Alternative structures and bi-Hamiltonian systems on a Hilbert space
authors: G. Marmo, G. Scolarici, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 11 pages
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 3813-3822
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0503040
abstract: We discuss transformations generated by dynamical quantum systems which are bi-unitary, i.e. unitary with respect to a pair of Hermitian structures on an infinite-dimensional complex Hilbert space. We introduce the notion of Hermitian structures in generic relative position. We provide few necessary and sufficient conditions for two Hermitian structures to be in generic relative position to better illustrate the relevance of this notion. The group of bi-unitary transformations is considered in both the generic and non-generic case. Finally, we generalize the analysis to real Hilbert spaces and extend to infinite dimensions results already available in the framework of finite-dimensional linear bi-Hamiltonian systems.

id: math/0503453
title: Weakly complete axiomatization of exogenous quantum propositional logic
authors: P. Mateus, A. Sernadas
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0503453
abstract: A weakly complete finitary axiomatization for EQPL (exogenous quantum propositional logic) is presented. The proof is carried out using a non trivial extension of the Fagin-Halpern-Megiddo technique together with three Henkin style completions.

id: nucl-th/0503055
title: An Approach To Potential Scattering
authors: B. Gonul, M. Kocak
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 1983-1990
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0503055
abstract: Recently developed time-independent bound-state perturbation theory is extended to treat the scattering domain. The changes in the partial wave phase shifts are derived explicitly and the results are compared with those of other methods.

id: physics/0503055
title: Optimal superluminal systems
authors: Bruno Macke, Bernard Sgard, Franck Wielonsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0503055
abstract: We demonstrate that significant effects in the "superluminal propagation"of light-pulses cannot be observed without involving systems whose gain explodes outside the pulse spectrum. We explicitly determine the minimum norm of the gain to attain given superluminal effects and the transfer function of the corresponding optimal system. The gain-norms which would be required with the most efficient systems considered up to now (dispersive media, photonic barriers) to attain the same effects are shown to exceed the minimum by several orders of magnitude. We finally estimate the largest superluminal advances which could be attained in a realistic experiment.

id: physics/0503235
title: Werner Heisenberg (1901-1976)
authors: Ivan Todorov
comments: Lecture at a Conference, dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the re-establishment of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Sofia, Bulgaria, October 2003. Reference added. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0503235
abstract: A brief review of Heisenberg's life and work: participating in the youth movement in the aftermath of World War I, creating quantum mechanics, conflict with "deutsche Physik", involvement in "Hitler's Uranium Project", last illusions. Problems and dilemmas for scientists under a dictatorship - East and West.

id: physics/0503196
title: Scattering of Dirac particles from non-local separable potentials: the eigenchannel approach
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: Revtex, 9 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review C 75, 064002 (2007)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0503196
abstract: An application of the new formulation of the eigenchannel method [R. Szmytkowski, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) {\bf 311}, 503 (2004)] to quantum scattering of Dirac particles from non-local separable potentials is presented. Eigenchannel vectors, related directly to eigenchannels, are defined as eigenvectors of a certain weighted eigenvalue problem. Moreover, negative cotangents of eigenphase-shifts are introduced as eigenvalues of that spectral problem. Eigenchannel spinor as well as bispinor harmonics are expressed throughout the eigenchannel vectors. Finally, the expressions for the bispinor as well as matrix scattering amplitudes and total cross section are derived in terms of eigenchannels and eigenphase-shifts. An illustrative example is also provided.

id: gr-qc/0503110
title: The leader operators of the $(d+1)$-dimensional relativistic rotating oscillators
authors: Ion I. Cot?escu, Ion I. Cot?escu Jr., Nicolina Pop
comments: 11 pages
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A20 (2005) 1251-1259
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0503110
abstract: The main pairs of leader operators of the quantum models of relativistic rotating oscillators in arbitrary dimensions are derived. To this end one exploits the fact that these models generate P\"{o}schl-Teller radial problems with remarkable properties of supersymmetry and shape invariance.

