id: quant-ph/0504001
title: Calculation of Hydrogenic Bethe Logarithms for Rydberg States
authors: Ulrich D. Jentschura, Peter J. Mohr
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A72 (2005) 012110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504001
abstract: We describe the calculation of hydrogenic (one-loop) Bethe logarithms for all states with principal quantum numbers n <= 200. While, in principle, the calculation of the Bethe logarithm is a rather easy computational problem involving only the nonrelativistic (Schroedinger) theory of the hydrogen atom, certain calculational difficulties affect highly excited states, and in particular states for which the principal quantum number is much larger than the orbital angular momentum quantum number. Two evaluation methods are contrasted. One of these is based on the calculation of the principal value of a specific integral over a virtual photon energy. The other method relies directly on the spectral representation of the Schroedinger-Coulomb propagator. Selected numerical results are presented. The full set of values is available at quant-ph/0504002.

id: quant-ph/0504002
title: Bethe Logarithms for Rydberg States: Numerical Values for n <= 200
authors: Ulrich D. Jentschura, Peter J. Mohr
comments: 220 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504002
abstract: This document provides reference data for all Bethe logarithms of hydrogenic bound states with principal quantum numbers n <= 200.

id: quant-ph/0504003
title: Eavesdropping without quantum memory
authors: H. Bechmann-Pasquinucci
comments: 9 pages LaTeX, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504003
abstract: In quantum cryptography the optimal eavesdropping strategy requires that the eavesdropper uses quantum memories in order to optimize her information. What happens if the eavesdropper has no quantum memory? It is shown that the best strategy is actually to adopt the simple intercept/resend strategy.

id: quant-ph/0504004
title: No-Switching Quantum Key Distribution using Broadband Modulated Coherent Light
authors: Andrew M. Lance, Thomas Symul, Vikram Sharma, Christian Weedbrook, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 180503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504004
abstract: We realize an end-to-end no-switching quantum key distribution protocol using continuous-wave coherent light. We encode weak broadband Gaussian modulations onto the amplitude and phase quadratures of light beams at the Shannon's information limit. Our no-switching protocol achieves high secret key rate via a post-selection protocol that utilizes both quadrature information simultaneously. We establish a secret key rate of 25 Mbits/s for a lossless channel and 1 kbit/s, per 17 MHz of detected bandwidth, for 90% channel loss. Since our scheme is truly broadband, it can potentially deliver orders of magnitude higher key rates by extending the encoding bandwidth with higher-end telecommunication technology.

id: quant-ph/0504005
title: Spin squeezing inequalities and entanglement of $N$ qubit states
authors: J. Korbicz, J.I. Cirac, M. Lewenstein
comments: formula (24) corrected, minor changes, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 120502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504005
abstract: We derive spin squeezing inequalities that generalize the concept of the spin squeezing parameter and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for genuine 2-, or 3- qubit entanglement for symmetric states, and sufficient condition for general states of $N$ qubits. Our inequalities have a clear physical interpretation as entanglement witnesses, can be relatively easy measured, and are given by complex, but {\it elementary} expressions.

id: quant-ph/0504006
title: On the KK system as two-kaons system
authors: Jaroslav Hruby
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504006
abstract: The time evolution of the KK system as a two-qubit system is given. The effect which is interpreted as CP violation in neutral kaon decays is explained via violation of quantum correlations during time evolution of the KK system as two-kaons system and description is via Yang-Baxterization and unitary time dependent R-matrices to con- struct Hamiltonian, determining the time evolution of two-kaons sys- tem. The nonseparability ideas and criterion can be extended on all mixing state-antistate system and all CP violation cases in particle physics.

id: quant-ph/0504007
title: Probabilistic Model--Checking of Quantum Protocols
authors: Simon Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan, Nikolaos Papanikolaou
comments: 15 pages + 2 page appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504007
abstract: We establish fundamental and general techniques for formal verification of quantum protocols. Quantum protocols are novel communication schemes involving the use of quantum-mechanical phenomena for representation, storage and transmission of data. As opposed to quantum computers, quantum communication systems can and have been implemented using present-day technology; therefore, the ability to model and analyse such systems rigorously is of primary importance. While current analyses of quantum protocols use a traditional mathematical approach and require considerable understanding of the underlying physics, we argue that automated verification techniques provide an elegant alternative. We demonstrate these techniques through the use of PRISM, a probabilistic model-checking tool. Our approach is conceptually simpler than existing proofs, and allows us to disambiguate protocol definitions and assess their properties. It also facilitates detailed analyses of actual implemented systems. We illustrate our techniques by modelling a selection of quantum protocols (namely superdense coding, quantum teleportation, and quantum error correction) and verifying their basic correctness properties. Our results provide a foundation for further work on modelling and analysing larger systems such as those used for quantum cryptography, in which basic protocols are used as components.

id: quant-ph/0504008
title: Communication complexity of remote state preparation with entanglement
authors: Rahul Jain
comments: 4 pages, no figure, ver3: Version to appear in Quantum information and computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504008
abstract: We consider the problem of remote state preparation recently studied in several papers. We study the communication complexity of this problem, in the presence of entanglement and in the scenario of single use of the channel.

id: quant-ph/0504009
title: Representations of Monomiality Principle with Sheffer-type Polynomials and Boson Normal Ordering
authors: P Blasiak, G Dattoli, A Horzela, K A Penson
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 352, 7-12 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504009
abstract: We construct explicit representations of the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra [P,M]=1 in terms of ladder operators acting in the space of Sheffer-type polynomials. Thus we establish a link between the monomiality principle and the umbral calculus. We use certain operator identities which allow one to evaluate explicitly special boson matrix elements between the coherent states. This yields a general demonstration of boson normal ordering of operator functions linear in either creation or annihilation operators. We indicate possible applications of these methods in other fields.

id: quant-ph/0504010
title: Quantum Games and Programmable Quantum Systems
authors: Edward W. Piotrowski, Jan Sladkowski
comments: Some obvious errors are corrected. References to significant previous results by other authors are inserted and made more explicit in section 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504010
abstract: Attention to the very physical aspects of information characterizes the current research in quantum computation, quantum cryptography and quantum communication. In most of the cases quantum description of the system provides advantages over the classical approach. Game theory, the study of decision making in conflict situation has already been extended to the quantum domain. We would like to review the latest development in quantum game theory that is relevant to information processing. We will begin by illustrating the general idea of a quantum game and methods of gaining an advantage over "classical opponent". Then we review the most important game theoretical aspects of quantum information processing. On grounds of the discussed material, we reason about possible future development of quantum game theory and its impact on information processing and the emerging information society. The idea of quantum artificial intelligence is explained.

id: quant-ph/0504011
title: Hidden Variables and the Large-Scale Structure of Spacetime
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 30 pages. Minor changes. To be published in: "Absolute Simultaneity", eds. W. L. Craig and Q. Smith (Routledge, London, 2005)
journal: "Einstein, Relativity and Absolute Simultaneity", eds. W. L. Craig and Q. Smith (Routledge, London, 2008), pp. 125--155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504011
abstract: We discuss how to embed quantum nonlocality in an approximately classical spacetime background, a question which must be answered irrespective of any underlying microscopic theory of spacetime. We argue that, in deterministic hidden-variables theories, the choice of spacetime kinematics should be dictated by the properties of generic non-equilibrium states, which allow nonlocal signalling. Such signalling provides an operational definition of absolute simultaneity, which may naturally be associated with a preferred foliation of classical spacetime. The argument applies to any deterministic hidden-variables theory, and to both flat and curved spacetime backgrounds. We include some critical discussion of Einstein's 1905 'operational' approach to relativity, and compare it with that of Poincare.

id: quant-ph/0504012
title: Quantum search algorithms
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 12 pages, short survey on selected topics for SIGACT News Complexity Column, published in June 2004
journal: SIGACT News, 35 (2):22-35, 2004.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504012
abstract: We review some of quantum algorithms for search problems: Grover's search algorithm, its generalization to amplitude amplification, the applications of amplitude amplification to various problems and the recent quantum algorithms based on quantum walks.

id: quant-ph/0504013
title: Quantum entanglement and wedge product
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 6 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in the Light of New Technology, edited by S. Ishioka and K. Fujikawa (World Scientific, Singapore, 2006), pp. 42-45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504013
abstract: In this paper, I will derive a measure of entanglement that coincides with the generalized concurrence for a general pure bi-and three-partite state based on wedge product. I will show that a further generalization of this idea to a general pure multipartite state with more than three subsystems will fail to quantify entanglement, but it defines the set of separable state for such composite state.

id: quant-ph/0504014
title: Analytic Representation of Finite Quantum Systems
authors: S. Zhang, A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 8349-8363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504014
abstract: A transform between functions in R and functions in Zd is used to define the analogue of number and coherent states in the context of finite d-dimensional quantum systems. The coherent states are used to define an analytic representation in terms of theta functions. All states are represented by entire functions with growth of order 2, which have exactly d zeros in each cell. The analytic function of a state is constructed from its zeros. Results about the completeness of finite sets of coherent states within a cell are derived.

id: quant-ph/0504015
title: Phase space methods for particles on a circle
authors: S. Zhang, A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 44 (2003) 5084-5094
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504015
abstract: The phase space $S\times Z$ for a particle on a circle is considered. Displacement operators in this phase space are introduced and their properties are studied. Wigner and Weyl functions in this context are also considered and their physical interpretation and properties are discussed. All results are compared and contrasted with the corresponding ones for the harmonic oscillator in the $R \times R$ phase space.

id: quant-ph/0504016
title: Optimal Time-Reversal of Multi-phase Equatorial States
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 7 pages, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062311 (2005) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504016
abstract: Even though the time-reversal is unphysical (it corresponds to the complex conjugation of the density matrix), for some restricted set of states it can be achieved unitarily, typically when there is a common de-phasing in a n-level system. However, in the presence of multiple phases (i. e. a different de-phasing for each element of an orthogonal basis occurs) the time reversal is no longer physically possible. In this paper we derive the channel which optimally approaches in fidelity the time-reversal of multi-phase equatorial states in arbitrary (finite) dimension. We show that, in contrast to the customary case of the Universal-NOT on qubits (or the universal conjugation in arbitrary dimension), the optimal phase covariant time-reversal for equatorial states is a nonclassical channel, which cannot be achieved via a measurement/preparation procedure. Unitary realizations of the optimal time-reversal channel are given with minimal ancillary dimension, exploiting the simplex structure of the optimal maps.

id: quant-ph/0504017
title: An Operator-Based Exact Treatment of Open Quantum Systems
authors: S. Nicolosi
comments: To appear on Open Systems and Information Dynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504017
abstract: "Quantum mechanics must be regarded as open systems. On one hand, this is due to the fact that, like in classical physics, any realistic system is subjected to a coupling to an uncontrollable environment which influences it in a non-negligible way. The theory of open quantum systems thus plays a major role in many applications of quantum physics since perfect isolation of quantum system is not possible and since a complete microscopic description or control of the environment degrees of freedom is not feasible or only partially so" [1]. Practical considerations therefore force one to seek for a simpler, effectively probabilistic description in terms of an open system. There is a close physical and mathematical connection between the evolution of an open system, the state changes induced by quantum measurements, and the classical notion of a stochastic process. The paper provides a bibliographic review of this interrelations, it shows the mathematical equivalence between markovian master equation and generalized piecewise deterministic processes [1] and it introduces the open system in an open observed environment model.

id: quant-ph/0504018
title: Comment on the Ghost State in the Lee Model
authors: Kazuyasu Shigemoto
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504018
abstract: We examine the ghost state in the Lee model, and give the physically meaningful interpretatation for norm of the ghost state. According to this interpretation, the semi-positivity of the norm is guaranteed.

id: quant-ph/0504019
title: Hidden measurements, hidden variables and the volume representation of transition probabilities
authors: Todd A. Oliynyk
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure
journal: Found. Phys. 35 (2005), 85-107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504019
abstract: We construct, for any finite dimension $n$, a new hidden measurement model for quantum mechanics based on representing quantum transition probabilities by the volume of regions in projective Hilbert space. For $n=2$ our model is equivalent to the Aerts sphere model and serves as a generalization of it for dimensions $n \geq 3$. We also show how to construct a hidden variables scheme based on hidden measurements and we discuss how joint distributions arise in our hidden variables scheme and their relationship with the results of Fine.

id: quant-ph/0504020
title: Decoherence and localization in the double well model
authors: Gabriela Barreto Lemos, M. F. Santos, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. O. Terra Cunha, M. C. Nemes
comments: submitted to PLA. 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504020
abstract: We use a spin-1/2 model to analyze tunnelling in a double well system coupled to an external reservoir. We consider different noise sources such as fluctuations on the height and central position of the barrier and propose an experiment to observe these effects in trapped ions or atoms.

id: quant-ph/0504021
title: Numerical Simulations of a Possible Hypercomputational Quantum Algorithm
authors: Andr¨¦s Sicard, Juan Ospina, Mario V¨¦lez
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, uses icannga05.sty
journal: In "Adaptive and Natural Computing Algorithms. Proc. of the International Conference in Coimbra, Portugal". Bernardete Ribeiro et al. (eds.). SpringerWienNewYork, 2005. p. 272--275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504021
abstract: The hypercomputers compute functions or numbers, or more generally solve problems or carry out tasks, that cannot be computed or solved by a Turing machine. Several numerical simulations of a possible hypercomputational algorithm based on quantum computations previously constructed by the authors are presented. The hypercomputability of our algorithm is based on the fact that this algorithm could solve a classically non-computable decision problem, Hilbert's tenth problem. The numerical simulations were realized for three types of Diophantine equations: with and without solutions in non-negative integers, and without solutions by way of various traditional mathematical packages.

id: quant-ph/0504022
title: Coherent analysis of quantum optical sideband modes
authors: E. H. Huntington, G. N. Milford, C. Robilliard, T. C. Ralph
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504022
abstract: We demonstrate a device that allows for the coherent analysis of a pair of optical frequency sidebands in an arbitrary basis. We show that our device is quantum noise limited and hence applications for this scheme may be found in discrete and continuous variable optical quantum information experiments.

id: quant-ph/0504023
title: On a parametrically extended entanglement-measure due to Tsallis relative entropy
authors: Shigeru Furuichi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504023
abstract: In the previous paper \cite{FYK}, we mainly studied the mathematical properties of Tsallis relative entropy with respect to the density operators. As an application of it, we adopt a parametrically extended entanglement-measure due to Tsallis relative entropy in order to measure the degree of entanglement. Then we study its properies with respect to the parameter $q$ appearing in Tsallis entropies. In addition, the relation between it and the relative entropy of entanglement is studied.

id: quant-ph/0504024
title: Quantum Timing and Synchronization Problems
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, vol. 18, Nos, 4-5 (2004) 623-631
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504024
abstract: Feynman's model of a quantum computer provides an example of a continuous-time quantum walk. Its clocking mechanism is an excitation of a basically linear chain of spins with occasional controlled jumps which allow for motion on a planar graph. The spreading of the wave packet poses limitations on the probability of ever completing the $s$ elementary steps of a computation: an additional amount of storage space $\delta$ is needed in order to achieve an assigned completion probability. In this note we study the END instruction, viewed as a measurement of the position of the clocking excitation: a $\pi$-pulse indefinitely freezes the contents of the input/output register, with a probability depending only on the ratio $\delta/s$.

id: quant-ph/0504025
title: Representation theory and Wigner-Racah algebra of the SU(2) group in a noncanonical basis
authors: M. R. Kibler
comments: To be presented at ICSSUR'05 (9th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations, France, 2-6 May 2005). Dedicated to Professor Josef Paldus on the occasion of his 70th birthday. To be published in Collection of Czechoslovak Chemical Communications
journal: Dans Collection of Czechoslovak Chemical Communications: a Special Issue in honor of Professor Josef Paldus, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences (Ed.) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504025
abstract: The Lie algebra su(2) of the classical group SU(2) is built from two commuting quon algebras for which the deformation parameter is a common root of unity. This construction leads to (i) a not very well-known polar decomposition of the ladder generators of the SU(2) group, in terms of a unitary operator and a Hermitean operator, and (ii) a nonstandard quantization scheme, alternative to the usual quantization scheme correponding to the diagonalization of the Casimir of su(2) and of the z-generator. The representation theory of the SU(2) group can be developed in this nonstandard scheme. The key ideas for developing the Wigner-Racah algebra of the SU(2) group in the nonstandard scheme are given. In particular, some properties of the coupling and recoupling coefficients as well as the Wigner-Eckart theorem in the nonstandard scheme are examined in great detail.

id: quant-ph/0504026
title: Noiseless method for checking the Peres separability criterion by local operations and classical communication
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Shu-Shen Li, Hou-Zhi Zheng
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 72, 052320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504026
abstract: We present a method for checking Peres separability criterion in an arbitrary bipartite quantum state $\rho_{AB}$ within local operations and classical communication scenario. The method does not require the prior state reconstruction and the structural physical approximation. The main task for the two observers, Alice and Bob, is to estimate some specific functions. After getting these functions, they can determine the minimal eigenvalue of $\rho^{T_{B}}_{AB}$, which serves as an entanglement indicator in lower dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0504027
title: Reduction of Magnetic Noise in Atom Chips by Material Optimization
authors: V. Dikovsky, Y. Japha, C. Henkel, R. Folman
comments: 25 pages with 9 figures eps
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504027
abstract: We discuss the contribution of the material type in metal wires to the electromagnetic fluctuations in magnetic microtraps close to the surface of an atom chip. We show that significant reduction of the magnetic noise can be achieved by replacing the pure noble metal wires with their dilute alloys. The alloy composition provides an additional degree of freedom which enables a controlled reduction of both magnetic noise and resistivity if the atom chip is cooled. In addition, we provide a careful re-analysis of the magnetically induced trap loss observed by Yu-Ju Lin et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 050404 (2004)] and find good agreement with an improved theory.

id: quant-ph/0504028
title: A new approximation method for time-dependent problems in quantum mechanics
authors: Paolo Amore, Alfredo Aranda, Francisco M. Fernandez, Hugh Jones
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, accepted on Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 340, 87-93 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504028
abstract: We propose an approximate solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation using the method of stationary states combined with a variational matrix method for finding the energies and eigenstates. We illustrate the effectiveness of the method by applying it to the time development of the wave-function in the quantum-mechanical version of the inflationary slow-roll transition.

id: quant-ph/0504029
title: Chaotic Tunneling in a Laser Field
authors: V.L. Golo, Yu.S.Volkov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504029
abstract: We study the driven tunneling of a one-dimensional charged particle confined to a rectangular double-well. The numerical simulation of the Schr\"odinger equation based on the Cranck-Nicholson finite-difference scheme, shows that the modulation of the amplitude of the external field may result in the parametric resonance. The latter is accompanied by the breakdown of the quasi-periodic motion characteristic of the usual driven tunneling, and the emergence of an irregular dynamics. We describe the above breakdown with the occupation probability for the ground state of the unperturbed system, and make the visualization of the irregular dynamics with the help of Shaw-Takens' reconstruction of the state-space. Both approaches agree as to the values of the resonant frequency for the parametric excitation. Our results indicate that the shape of the laser pulse could be essential for generating chaotic tunneling.

id: quant-ph/0504030
title: On the Consequences of Retaining the General Validity of Locality in Physical Theory
authors: W. De Baere
comments: revtex, 11 pages
journal: Found. Phys. 35, 33-56 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504030
abstract: The empirical validity of the locality (LOC) principle of relativity is used to argue in favour of a local hidden variable theory (HVT) for individual quantum processes. It is shown that such a HVT may reproduce the statistical predictions of quantum mechanics (QM), provided the reproducibility of initial hidden variable states is limited. This means that in a HVT limits should be set to the validity of the notion of counterfactual definiteness (CFD). This is supported by the empirical evidence that past, present, and future are basically distinct. Our argumentation is contrasted with a recent one by Stapp resulting in the opposite conclusion, i.e. nonlocality or the existence of faster-than-light influences. We argue that Stapp's argumentation still depends in an implicit, but crucial, way on both the notions of hidden variables and of CFD. In addition, some implications of our results for the debate between Bohr and Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0504031
title: Renninger's Thought Experiment: Implications for Quantum Ontology and for Quantum Mechanic's Interpretation
authors: W. De Baere
comments: revtex, 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504031
abstract: It is argued that the conclusions obtained by Renninger (Zeitschrift fur Physik 136, 251 (1953)), by means of an interferometer thought experiment, have important implications for a number of still ongoing discussions about quantum mechanics (QM). To these belong the ontology underlying QM, Bohr's complementarity principle, the significance of QM's wave function, the "elements of reality" introduced by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR), and Bohm's version of QM (BQM). A slightly extended setup is used to make a physical prediction at variance with the mathematical prediction of QM. An english translation of Renninger's paper, which was originally published in german language, follows the present paper. This should facilitate access to that remarkable, apparently overlooked and forgotten, paper.

id: quant-ph/0504032
title: Conditional transfer of quantum correlation in the intensity of twin beams
authors: Yun Zhang, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Katsuyuki Kasai
comments: 5 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504032
abstract: A conditional protocol of transferring quantum-correlation in continuous variable regime was experimentally demonstrated. The quantum-correlation in two pairs of twin beams, each characterized by intensity-difference squeezing of 7.0 dB, was transferred to two initially independent idler beams. The quantum-correlation transfer resulted in intensity-difference squeezing of 4.0 dB between two idler beams. The dependence of preparation probability and transfer fidellity on the selection bandwidth was also studied.

id: quant-ph/0504033
title: Higher order perturbation theory for decoherence in Grover's algorithm
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 18 pages, Latex2e, 5 eps figures; v2: comments about precision of approximation with higher order polynomials added; v3: minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042305 (2005); Phys. Rev. A 72, 049902(E) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504033
abstract: In this paper, we study decoherence in Grover's quantum search algorithm using a perturbative method. We assume that each two-state system (qubit) that belongs to a register suffers a phase flip error (\sigma_{z} error) with probability p independently at every step in the algorithm, where $0\leq p\leq 1$. Considering an n-qubit density operator to which Grover's iterative operation is applied M times, we expand it in powers of 2Mnp and derive its matrix element order by order under the large-n limit. [In this large-n limit, we assume p is small enough, so that 2Mnp can take any real positive value or zero. We regard $x\equiv 2Mnp(\geq 0)$ as a perturbative parameter.] We obtain recurrence relations between terms in the perturbative expansion. By these relations, we compute higher orders of the perturbation efficiently, so that we extend the range of the perturbative parameter that provides a reliable analysis. Calculating the matrix element numerically by this method, we derive the maximum value of the perturbative parameter x at which the algorithm finds a correct item with a given threshold of probability P_{th} or more. (We refer to this maximum value of x as x_{c}, a critical point of x.) We obtain a curve of x_{c} as a function of P_{th} by repeating this numerical calculation for many points of P_{th} and find the following facts: a tangent of the obtained curve at P_{th}=1 is given by x=(8/5)(1-P_{th}), and we have x_{c}>-(8/5)\log_{e}P_{th} near P_{th}=0.

id: quant-ph/0504034
title: Continuous optimal ensembles II. Reducing the separability condition to numerical equations
authors: Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504034
abstract: A density operator of a bipartite quantum system is called robustly separable if it has a neighborhood of separable operators. Given a bipartite density matrix, its property to be robustly separable is reduced, using the continuous ensemble method, to a finite number of numerical equations. The solution of this system exists for any robustly separable density operator and provides its representation by a continuous mixture of pure product states.

id: quant-ph/0504035
title: Change of decoherence scenario and appearance of localization due to reservoir anharmonicity
authors: Pawe? Machnikowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; moderate changes; auxiliary material added; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 140405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504035
abstract: Although coupling to a super-Ohmic bosonic reservoir leads only to partial dephasing on short time scales, exponential decay of coherence appears in the Markovian limit (for long times) if anharmonicity of the reservoir is taken into account. This effect not only qualitatively changes the decoherence scenario but also leads to localization processes in which superpositions of spatially separated states dephase with a rate that depends on the distance between the localized states. As an example of the latter process, we study the decay of coherence of an electron state delocalized over two semiconductor quantum dots due to anharmonicity of phonon modes.

id: quant-ph/0504036
title: Universality of Measurements on Quantum Markets
authors: Ireneusz Pakula, Edward W. Piotrowski, Jan Sladkowski
comments: 13 pages; References to significant previous results by other authors are inserted and made more explicit in section 4. References are updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504036
abstract: We reason about possible future development of quantum game theory and its impact on information processing and the emerging information society. Two of the authors have recently proposed a quantum description of financial market in terms of quantum game theory. These "new games" cannot by themselves create extraordinary profits or multiplication of goods, but they may cause the dynamism of transaction which would result in more effective markets and capital flow into hands of the most efficient traders. We focus upon the problem of universality of measurement in quantum market games. Quantum-like approach to market description proves to be an important theoretical tool for investigation of computability problems in economics or game theory even if never implemented in real markets.

id: quant-ph/0504037
title: Semiclassical propagation of coherent states using complex and real trajectories
authors: M. Novaes, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504037
abstract: We study the semiclassical propagation of coherent states in $d$ dimensions, which in general involves complex classical dynamics. Several simple approximations are derived that depend only on real classical trajectories, among them the thawed Gaussian approximation (TGA). Apart from the TGA, all other possibilities are able to reproduce interference and tunnelling effects, and involve propagating a set of classical initial conditions compatible with the quantum uncertainties. The accuracy of the results is verified in two dimensions for the scattering by an attractive potential, for a bound nonlinear system, for motion inside a circular billiard and for a system involving tunnelling.

id: quant-ph/0504038
title: Hydrogen atom in phase space: The Wigner representation
authors: L. Praxmeyer, J. Mostowski, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: 8 pages (including figures)
journal: Journal of Physics A 39, 14143, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504038
abstract: We have found an effective method of calculating the Wigner function, being a quantum analogue of joint probability distribution of position and momentum, for bound states of nonrelativistic hydrogen atom. The formal similarity between the eigenfunctions of nonrelativistic hydrogen atom in the momentum representation and Klein-Gordon propagators has allowed the calculation of the Wigner function for an arbitrary bound state of the hydrogen atom. These Wigner functions for some low lying states are depicted and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0504039
title: Observing Quantum Vacuum Lensing in Magnetized Neutron Star Binary System
authors: Arnaud Dupays, C¨¦cile Robilliard, Carlo Rizzo, Giovanni F. Bignami
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. in press
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 94 (2005) 161101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504039
abstract: In this letter we study the propagation of light in the neighbourhood of magnetised neutron stars. Thanks to the optical properties of quantum vacuum in the presence of a magnetic field, light emitted by background astronomical objects is deviated giving rise to a phenomenon of the same kind as the gravitational one. We give a quantitative estimation of this effect and we discuss the possibility of its observation. We show that this effect could be detected monitoring the evolution of the recently discovered double neutron star system J0737-3039.

id: quant-ph/0504040
title: Nonlocal Measurements in the Time-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Lev Vaidman, Izhar Nevo
comments: 4 pages 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504040
abstract: Although nondemolition, reliable, and instantaneous quantum measurements of some nonlocal variables are impossible, demolition reliable instantaneous measurements are possible for all variables. It is shown that this is correct also in the framework of the time-symmetric quantum formalism, i.e. nonlocal variables of composite quantum systems with quantum states evolving both forward and backward in time are measurable in a demolition way. The result follows from the possibility to reverse with certainty the time direction of a backward evolving quantum state. Demolition measurements of nonlocal backward evolving quantum states require remarkably small resources. This is so because the combined operation of time reversal and teleportation of a local backward evolving quantum state requires only a single quantum channel and no transmission of classical information.

id: quant-ph/0504041
title: Towards efficient algorithm deciding separability of distributed quantum states
authors: Piotr Badziag, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504041
abstract: It is pointed out that separability problem for arbitrary multi-partite states can be fully solved by a finite size, elementary recursive algorithm. In the worse case scenario, the underlying numerical procedure, may grow doubly exponentially with the state's rank. Nevertheless, we argue that for generic states, analysis of concurrence matrices essentially reduces the task of solving separability problem in $m \times n$ dimensions to solving a set of linear equations in about $\binom{mn+D-1}{D}$ variables, where $D$ decreases with $mn$ and for large $mn$ it should not exceed 4. Moreover, the same method is also applicable to multipartite states where it is at least equally efficient.

id: quant-ph/0504042
title: Entanglement in coined quantum walks on regular graphs
authors: Ivens Carneiro, Meng Loo, Xibai Xu, Mathieu Girerd, Viv Kendon, Peter L. Knight
comments: 23 pages, many eps embedded figures; v2 published version: better quality figures on journal website (open access) at this http URL; v3 corrects errors in fig 2 and related text (thanks to Annette Gattner and Mostafa Annabestani)
journal: New J. Phys. 7 (2005) 156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504042
abstract: Quantum walks, both discrete (coined) and continuous time, form the basis of several recent quantum algorithms. Here we use numerical simulations to study the properties of discrete, coined quantum walks. We investigate the variation in the entanglement between the coin and the position of the particle by calculating the entropy of the reduced density matrix of the coin. We consider both dynamical evolution and asymptotic limits for coins of dimensions from two to eight on regular graphs. For low coin dimensions, quantum walks which spread faster (as measured by the mean square deviation of their distribution from uniform) also exhibit faster convergence towards the asymptotic value of the entanglement between the coin and particle's position. For high-dimensional coins, the DFT coin operator is more efficient at spreading than the Grover coin. We study the entanglement of the coin on regular finite graphs such as cycles, and also show that on complete bipartite graphs, a quantum walk with a Grover coin is always periodic with period four. We generalize the 'glued trees' graph used by Childs et al (2003 Proc. STOC, pp 5968) to higher branching rate (fan out) and verify that the scaling with branching rate and with tree depth is polynomial.

id: quant-ph/0504043
title: Comment on "On the Electric Charge Quantization from the Aharonov-Bohm Potential"
authors: R. MacKenzie, H. Paquette, J. Pinel, P.-L. Roussel
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504043
abstract: In the paper quant-ph/0503212, Barone and Halayel-Neto (BH) claim that charge quantization in quantum mechanics can be proven without the need for the existence of magnetic monopoles. In this paper it is argued that their claim is untrue.

id: quant-ph/0504044
title: Quantum Symmetries and Cartan Decompositions in Arbitrary Dimensions
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro, Francesca Albertini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504044
abstract: We investigate the relation between Cartan decompositions of the unitary group and discrete quantum symmetries. To every Cartan decomposition there corresponds a quantum symmetry which is the identity when applied twice. As an application, we describe a new and general method to obtain Cartan decompositions of the unitary group of evolutions of multipartite systems from Cartan decompositions on the single subsystems. The resulting decomposition, which we call of the odd-even type, contains, as a special case, the concurrence canonical decomposition (CCD) presented in the context of entanglement theory. The CCD is therefore extended from the case of a multipartite system of n qubits to the case where the component subsystems have arbitrary dimension.

id: quant-ph/0504045
title: Slow Light amplification in a non-inverted gain medium
authors: Filippo Caruso, Ivan Herrera, Saverio Bartalini, Francesco Cataliotti
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures. To be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhysics Letters 69, 938-944 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504045
abstract: We investigate the propagation of a coherent probe light pulse through a three-level atomic medium (in the $\Lambda$--configuration) in the presence of a pump laser under the conditions for gain without inversion. When the carrier frequency of the probe pulse and the pump laser are in a Raman configuration, we show that it is possible to amplify a slow propagating pulse. We also analyze the regime in which the probe pulse is slightly detuned from resonance where we observe anomalous light propagation.

id: quant-ph/0504046
title: Adiabatic Approximation for weakly open systems
authors: Patrik Thunstr?m, Johan ?berg, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: New material added, references added and updated, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504046
abstract: We generalize the adiabatic approximation to the case of open quantum systems, in the joint limit of slow change and weak open system disturbances. We show that the approximation is ``physically reasonable'' as under wide conditions it leads to a completely positive evolution, if the original master equation can be written on a time-dependent Lindblad form. We demonstrate the approximation for a non-Abelian holonomic implementation of the Hadamard gate, disturbed by a decoherence process. We compare the resulting approximate evolution with numerical simulations of the exact equation.

id: quant-ph/0504047
title: 't Hooft's quantum determinism -- path integral viewpoint
authors: Massimo Blasone, Petr Jizba, Hagen Kleinert
comments: Presented at Second International Workshop DICE2004, From Decoherence and Emergent Classicality to Emergent Quantum Mechanics Piombino (Tuscany), September 1-4, 2004, 6 pages, accepted to Braz.J.Phys
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 35 (2005) 497
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504047
abstract: We present a path integral formulation of 't Hooft's derivation of quantum from classical physics. Our approach is based on two concepts: Faddeev-Jackiw's treatment of constrained systems and Gozzi's path integral formulation of classical mechanics. This treatment is compared with our earlier one [quant-ph/0409021] based on Dirac-Bergmann's method.

id: quant-ph/0504048
title: Minimax quantum state discrimination
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Massimiliano Federico Sacchi, Jonas Kahn
comments: 5 pages, no figures; the title is changed. Some improvements. Corollary 1 has been corrected (now Remark 1). Phys. Rev. A in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032310 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504048
abstract: We derive the optimal measurement for quantum state discrimination without a priori probabilities, i.e. in a minimax strategy instead of the usually considered Bayesian one. We consider both minimal-error and unambiguous discrimination problems, and provide the relation between the optimal measurements according to the two schemes. We show that there are instances in which the minimum risk cannot be achieved by an orthogonal measurement, and this is a common feature of the minimax estimation strategy.

id: quant-ph/0504049
title: Quantum entanglement in states generated by bilocal group algebras
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Radu Ionicioiu, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 9 pages, no figs; updated to the published version
journal: Phys.Rev. A 72, 012324 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504049
abstract: Given a finite group G with a bilocal representation, we investigate the bipartite entanglement in the state constructed from the group algebra of G acting on a separable reference state. We find an upper bound for the von Neumann entropy for a bipartition (A,B) of a quantum system and conditions to saturate it. We show that these states can be interpreted as ground states of generic Hamiltonians or as the physical states in a quantum gauge theory and that under specific conditions their geometric entropy satisfies the entropic area law. If G is a group of spin flips acting on a set of qubits, these states are locally equivalent to 2-colorable (i.e., bipartite) graph states and they include GHZ, cluster states etc. Examples include an application to qudits and a calculation of the n-tangle for 2-colorable graph states.

id: quant-ph/0504050
title: The complexity of quantum spin systems on a two-dimensional square lattice
authors: Roberto Oliveira, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures; v2 has 23 pages, 12 figures and some additional results in an appendix. The presentation in v3 is changed considerably. v4 has various corrections and an improved presentation. v5 has an additional correction. v6 is close to final, sigh. v6 uses qic.sty and is to appear in QIC
journal: Quant. Inf, Comp. Vol. 8, No. 10, pp. 0900-0924 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504050
abstract: The problem 2-LOCAL HAMILTONIAN has been shown to be complete for the quantum computational class QMA, see quant-ph/0406180. In this paper we show that this important problem remains QMA-complete when the interactions of the 2-local Hamiltonian are between qubits on a two-dimensional (2-D) square lattice. Our results are partially derived with novel perturbation gadgets that employ mediator qubits which allow us to manipulate k-local interactions. As a side result, we obtain that quantum adiabatic computation using 2-local interactions restricted to a 2-D square lattice is equivalent to the circuit model of quantum computation. Our perturbation method also shows how any stabilizer space associated with a k-local stabilizer (for constant k) can be generated as an approximate ground-space of a 2-local Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0504051
title: Dynamics of Two Qubits: Decoherence and an Entanglement Optimization Protocol
authors: Cesar A. Rodriguez, Anil Shaji, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Changed the format and added one whole section. Title slightly changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504051
abstract: The evolution of two qubits coupled by a general nonlocal interaction is studied in two distinct regimes. In the first regime the purity of the individual qubits is interchanged through the entanglement shared by the two. We illustrate how this can be a mechanism for decoherence. In the second regime, the interaction entangles two initially pure qubits. The dynamical maps for the reduced unitary evolution of both initially simply separable and not-simply-separable states are found. We outline a protocol for optimizing the entanglement generation subject to constraints.

id: quant-ph/0504052
title: Entangling power of quantum chaotic evolutions via operator entanglement
authors: Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 4 pages, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504052
abstract: We study operator entanglement of the quantum chaotic evolutions. This study shows that properties of the operator entanglement production are qualitatively similar to the properties reported in literature about the pure state entanglement production. This similarity establishes that the operator entanglement quantifies {\it intrinsic} entangling power of an operator. The term `intrinsic' suggests that this measure is independent of any specific choice of initial states.

id: quant-ph/0504053
title: Strong-field approximation for intense-laser atom processes: the choice of gauge
authors: D. Bauer, D. B. Milosevic, W. Becker
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504053
abstract: The strong-field approximation can be and has been applied in both length gauge and velocity gauge with quantitatively conflicting answers. For ionization of negative ions with a ground state of odd parity, the predictions of the two gauges differ qualitatively: in the envelope of the angular-resolved energy spectrum, dips in one gauge correspond to humps in the other. We show that the length-gauge SFA matches the exact numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0504054
title: Error tolerance in an NMR Implementation of Grover's Fixed-Point Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Li Xiao, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 5 Pages RevTex4 including three figures. Changes made at request of referees; now in press at Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032326 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504054
abstract: We describe an implementation of Grover's fixed-point quantum search algorithm on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer, searching for either one or two matching items in an unsorted database of four items. In this new algorithm the target state (an equally weighted superposition of the matching states) is a fixed point of the recursive search operator, and so the algorithm always moves towards the desired state. The effects of systematic errors in the implementation are briefly explored.

id: quant-ph/0504055
title: On the upper bound of the electronic kinetic energy in terms of density functionals
authors: L. Delle Site
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 7893-7899
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504055
abstract: We propose a simple density functional expression for the upper bound of the kinetic energy for electronic systems. Such a functional is valid in the limit of slowly varying density, its validity outside this regime is discussed by making a comparison with upper bounds obtained in previous work. The advantages of the functional proposed for applications to realistic systems is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0504056
title: Quantum transducers: Integrating Transmission Lines and Nanomechanical Resonators via Charge Qubits
authors: C. P. Sun, L. F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022318 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504056
abstract: We propose a mechanism to interface a transmission line resonator (TLR) with a nano-mechanical resonator (NAMR) by commonly coupling them to a charge qubit, a Cooper pair box with a controllable gate voltage. Integrated in this quantum transducer or simple quantum network, the charge qubit plays the role of a controllable quantum node coherently exchanging quantum information between the TLR and NAMR. With such an interface, a maser-like process is predicted to create a quasi-classical state of the NAMR by controlling a single-mode classical current in the TLR. Alternatively, a "Cooper pair" coherent output through the transmission line can be driven by a single-mode classical oscillation of the NAMR.

id: quant-ph/0504057
title: Identifying two-photon high-dimensional entanglement in transverse patterns
authors: Gui-Fang Dang, Li-Ping Deng, Kaige Wang
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504057
abstract: We propose a scheme to explore two-photon high-dimensional entanglement associated with a transverse pattern by means of two-photon interference in a beamsplitter. We find that the topological symmetry of the angular spectrum of the two-photon state governs the nature of the two-photon interference. We prove that the anti-coalescence interference is the signature of two-photon entanglement. On the basis of this feature, we propose a special Mach-Zehnder interferometer incorporated with two spiral phase plates which can change the interference from a coalescence to an anti-coalescence type only for a two-photon entangled state. The scheme is simple and straightforward compared with the test for a Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0504058
title: On the uncertainty relations and quantum measurements: conventionalities, shortcomings, reconsiderations
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 44 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504058
abstract: Unsolved controversies about uncertainty relations and quantum measurements still persists nowadays. They originate around the shortcomings regarding the conventional interpretation of uncertainty relations. Here we show that the respective shortcomings disclose veridic and unavoidable facts which require the abandonment of the mentioned interpretation. So the primitive uncertainty relations appear as being either thought fictions or fluctuations formulae. Subsequently we reveal that the conventional approaches of quantum measurements are grounded on incorrect premises. We propose a new approach in which : (i) the quantum observables are considered as generalized stochastic variables, (ii) the view is focused only on the pre-existent state of the measured system, without any interest for the collapse of the respective state, (iii) a measurement is described as an input-output transformation which modify the probability density and current but preserve the expressions of the operators. The measuring uncertainties are evaluated as changes in the probabilistic estimators of observables. Related to different observables we do not find reasons of principle neither for uncertainties-connections nor for measuring compatibility/incompatibility.

id: quant-ph/0504059
title: Quantum Key Ditribution Based on Quantum Intensity Correlation of Twin Beams
authors: Xiaojun Jia, Xiaolong Su, Qing Pan, Kunchi Peng, Changde Xie
comments: submitted to journal on March 22,2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504059
abstract: A new and simple quantum key distribution scheme based on the quantum intensity correlation of optical twin beams and the directly local measurements of intensity noise of single optical beam is presented and experimentally demonstrated. Using the twin beams with the quantum intensity correlation of 5dB the effective bit rate of $2\times 10^7bits/s$ is completed. The noncloning of quantum systems and the sensitivity of the existing correlations to losses provide the physical mechamism for the security against eavesdropping. In the presented scheme the signal modulation and homodyne detection are not needed.

id: quant-ph/0504060
title: On relations between stable and Zeno dynamics in a leaky graph decay model
authors: Pavel Exner, Takashi Ichinose, Sylwia Kondej
comments: LaTeX2e, birkart style, 14 pages, written for Proceedings of the Conference "Operator Theory and Mathematical Physics" (Bedlewo, July 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504060
abstract: We use a caricature model of a system consisting of a quantum wire and a finite number of quantum dots, to discuss relation between the Zeno dynamics and the stable one which governs time evolution of the dot states in the absence of the wire. We analyze the weak coupling case and argue that the two time evolutions can differ significantly only at times comparable with the lifetime of the unstable system undisturbed by perpetual measurement.

id: quant-ph/0504061
title: Exact solutions for a universal set of quantum gates on a family of iso-spectral spin chains
authors: V. Karimipour, N. Majd
comments: 1 figure, Latex, 8 pages, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 052305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504061
abstract: We find exact solutions for a universal set of quantum gates on a scalable candidate for quantum computers, namely an array of two level systems. The gates are constructed by a combination of dynamical and geometrical (non-Abelian) phases. Previously these gates have been constructed mostly on non-scalable systems and by numerical searches among the loops in the manifold of control parameters of the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0504062
title: Pure-state single-photon wave-packet generation by parametric down conversion in a distributed microcavity
authors: M. G. Raymer, Jaewoo Noh, K. Banaszek, I.A. Walmsley
comments: submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504062
abstract: We propose an optical parametric down conversion (PDC) scheme that does not suffer a trade-off between the state-purity of single-photon wave-packets and the rate of packet production. This is accomplished by modifying the PDC process by using a microcavity to engineer the density of states of the optical field at the PDC frequencies. The high-finesse cavity mode occupies a spectral interval much narrower than the bandwidth of the pulsed pump laser field, suppressing the spectral correlation, or entanglement, between signal and idler photons. Spectral filtering of the field occurs prior to photon creation rather than afterward as in most other schemes. Operator-Maxwell equations are solved to find the Schmidt-mode decomposition of the two-photon states produced. Greater than 99% pure-state packet production is predicted to be achievable.

id: quant-ph/0504063
title: Geometric Effects and Computation in Spin Networks
authors: Alastair Kay, Marie Ericsson
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 143 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504063
abstract: When initially introduced, a Hamiltonian that realises perfect transfer of a quantum state was found to be analogous to an x-rotation of a large spin. In this paper we extend the analogy further to demonstrate geometric effects by performing rotations on the spin. Such effects can be used to determine properties of the chain, such as its length, in a robust manner. Alternatively, they can form the basis of a spin network quantum computer. We demonstrate a universal set of gates in such a system by both dynamical and geometrical means.

id: quant-ph/0504064
title: Solvable Quantum Two-Body Problem:Entanglement
authors: ML Glasser, LM Nieto
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504064
abstract: A simple one dimensional model is introduced describing a two particle "atom" approaching a point at which the interaction between the particles is lost. The wave function is obtained analytically and analyzed to display the entangled nature of the subsequent state.

id: quant-ph/0504065
title: Quadratic pseudosupersymmetry in two-level systems
authors: Boris F Samsonov, V V Shamshutdinova
comments: 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 4715--4725
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504065
abstract: Using the intertwining relation we construct a pseudosuperpartner for a (non-Hermitian) Dirac-like Hamiltonian describing a two-level system interacting in the rotating wave approximation with the electric component of an electromagnetic field. The two pseudosuperpartners and pseudosupersymmetry generators close a quadratic pseudosuperalgebra. A class of time dependent electric fields for which the equation of motion for a two level system placed in this field can be solved exactly is obtained. New interesting phenomenon is observed. There exists such a time-dependent detuning of the field frequency from the resonance value that the probability to populate the excited level ceases to oscillate and becomes a monotonically growing function of time tending to 3/4. It is shown that near this fixed excitation regime the probability exhibits two kinds of oscillations. The oscillations with a small amplitude and a frequency close to the Rabi frequency (fast oscillations) take place at the background of the ones with a big amplitude and a small frequency (slow oscillations). During the period of slow oscillations the minimal value of the probability to populate the excited level may exceed 1/2 suggesting for an ensemble of such two-level atoms the possibility to acquire the inverse population and exhibit lasing properties.

id: quant-ph/0504066
title: Quantum and Fisher Information from the Husimi and Related Distributions
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures, slight revisions, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 022104 (2006) (17 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504066
abstract: The two principal/immediate influences -- which we seek to interrelate here -- upon the undertaking of this study are papers of Zyczkowski and Slomczy\'nski (J. Phys. A 34, 6689 [2001]) and of Petz and Sudar (J. Math. Phys. 37, 2262 [1996]). In the former work, a metric (the Monge one, specifically) over generalized Husimi distributions was employed to define a distance between two arbitrary density matrices. In the Petz-Sudar work (completing a program of Chentsov), the quantum analogue of the (classically unique) Fisher information (montone) metric of a probability simplex was extended to define an uncountable infinitude of Riemannian (also monotone) metrics on the set of positive definite density matrices. We pose here the questions of what is the specific/unique Fisher information metric for the (classically-defined) Husimi distributions and how does it relate to the infinitude of (quantum) metrics over the density matrices of Petz and Sudar? We find a highly proximate (small relative entropy) relationship between the probability distribution (the quantum Jeffreys' prior) that yields quantum universal data compression, and that which (following Clarke and Barron) gives its classical counterpart. We also investigate the Fisher information metrics corresponding to the escort Husimi, positive-P and certain Gaussian probability distributions, as well as, in some sense, the discrete Wigner pseudoprobability. The comparative noninformativity of prior probability distributions -- recently studied by Srednicki (Phys. Rev. A 71, 052107 [2005]) -- formed by normalizing the volume elements of the various information metrics, is also discussed in our context.

id: quant-ph/0504067
title: Explicit Multiregister Measurements for Hidden Subgroup Problems
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504067
abstract: We present an explicit measurement in the Fourier basis that solves an important case of the Hidden Subgroup Problem, including the case to which Graph Isomorphism reduces. This entangled measurement uses $k=\log_2 |G|$ registers, and each of the $2^k$ subsets of the registers contributes some information. While this does not, in general, yield an efficient algorithm, it generalizes the relationship between Subset Sum and the HSP in the dihedral group, and sheds some light on how quantum algorithms for Graph Isomorphism might work.

id: quant-ph/0504068
title: Spin as the Basis for Quantum Mechanics: A New Semiclassical Model for Electron Spin
authors: Alan M. Kadin
comments: 9 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504068
abstract: A simple real-space model for the free-electron wavefunction with spin is proposed, based on coherent vortices on the scale of h/mc, rotating at mc^2/h. This reproduces the proper values for electron spin and magnetic moment. Transformation to a moving reference frame turns this into a wave with the de Broglie wavelength. The mapping of the real two-dimensional vector phasor to the complex plane satisfies the Schrodinger equation. This suggests a fundamental role for spin in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0504069
title: Outcoupling from a Bose-Einstein condensate with squeezed light to produce entangled atom laser beams
authors: S. A. Haine, J. J. Hope
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504069
abstract: We examine the properties of an atom laser produced by outcoupling from a Bose-Einstein condensate with squeezed light. We model the multimode dynamics of the output field and show that a significant amount of squeezing can be transfered from an optical mode to a propagating atom laser beam. We use this to demonstrate that two-mode squeezing can be used to produce twin atom laser beams with continuous variable entanglement in amplitude and phase.

id: quant-ph/0504070
title: Preserving Quantum States : A Super-Zeno Effect
authors: Deepak Dhar, Lov K. Grover, Shasanka M. Roy
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, rewritten for clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504070
abstract: We construct an algorithm for suppressing the transitions of a quantum mechanical system, initially prepared in a subspace P of the full Hilbert space of the system, to outside this subspace by subjecting it to a sequence of unequally spaced short-duration pulses. Each pulse multiplies the amplitude of the vectors in the subspace by -1. The number of pulses required by the algorithm to limit the leakage probability to $\epsilon$ in time $T$ increases as $T \exp[ \sqrt{\log(T^2/\epsilon)}]$, compared to $T^2 \epsilon^{-1}$ in the standard quantum Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0504071
title: There is Neither Classical Bug with a Superluminal Shadow Nor Quantum Absolute Collapse Nor (Subquantum) Superluminal Hidden Variable
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Milan Predojevic, Miodrag Krmar, Milan Radovanovic
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504071
abstract: In this work we analyse critically Griffiths's example of the classical superluminal motion of a bug shadow. Griffiths considers that this example is conceptually very close to quantum nonlocality or superluminality,i.e. quantum breaking of the famous Bell inequality. Or, generally, he suggests implicitly an absolute asymmetric duality (subluminality vs. superluminality) principle in any fundamental physical theory.It, he hopes, can be used for a natural interpretation of the quantum mechanics too. But we explain that such Griffiths's interpretation retires implicitly but significantly from usual, Copenhagen interpretation of the standard quantum mechanical formalism. Within Copenhagen interpretation basic complementarity principle represents, in fact, a dynamical symmetry principle (including its spontaneous breaking, i.e. effective hiding by measurement). Similarly, in other fundamental physical theories instead of Griffiths's absolute asymmetric duality principle there is a dynamical symmetry (including its spontaneous breaking, i.e. effective hiding in some of these theories) principle. Finally, we show that Griffiths's example of the bug shadow superluminal motion is definitely incorrect (it sharply contradicts the remarkable Roemer's determination of the speed of light by coming late of Jupiter's first moon shadow).

id: quant-ph/0504072
title: Multi-Partite Entanglement Inequalities via Spin Vector Geometry
authors: Gabriel A. Durkin, Christoph Simon
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables, 1 figure. A truncated version is published in Physical Review Letters, volume 95 issue 18, 180402 (October 2005)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 180402 (October 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504072
abstract: We introduce inequalities for multi-partite entanglement, derived from the geometry of spin vectors. The criteria are constructed iteratively from cross and dot products between the spins of individual subsystems, each of which may have arbitrary dimension. For qubit ensembles the maximum violation for our inequalities is larger than that for the Mermin-Klyshko Bell inequalities, and the maximally violating states are different from Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. Our inequalities are violated by certain bound entangled states for which no Bell-type violation has yet been found.

id: quant-ph/0504073
title: Distinguishability, classical information of quantum operations
authors: Dong Yang
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504073
abstract: A basic property of distinguishability is that it is non-increasing under further quantum operations. Following this, we generalize two measures of distinguishability of pure states--fidelity and von Neumann entropy, to mixed states as self-consistent measures. Then we extend these two measures to quantum operations. The information-theoretic point of the generalized Holevo quantity of an ensemble of quantum operations is constructed. Preferably it is an additive measure. The exact formula for SU(2) ensemble is presented. With the aid of the formula, we show Jozsa-Schlienz paradox that states as a whole are less distinguishable while all pairwise are more distinguishable in an ensemble of quantum states, also occurs in an ensemble of quantum operations, even in the minimal dimensional case SU(2) ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0504074
title: On the quantum spectrum of isochronous potentials
authors: J. Dorignac
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504074
abstract: In this paper, the quantum spectrum of isochronous potentials is investigated. Given that the frequency of the classical motion in such potentials is energy-independent, it is natural to expect their quantum spectra to be equispaced. However, as it has already been shown in some specific examples, this property is not always true. To gain some general insight into this problem, a WKB analysis of the spectrum, valid for any analytic potential, is performed and the first semiclassical corrections to its regular spacing are calculated. We illustrate the results on the two-parameter family of isochronous potentials derived in [1], which includes the harmonic oscillator, the asymmetric parabolic well, the radial harmonic oscillator and Urabe's potential as special limiting cases. In addition, some new analytical expressions for families of isochronous potentials and their corresponding spectra are derived by means of the above-mentioned method.

id: quant-ph/0504075
title: Quantum Information and the PCP Theorem
authors: Ran Raz
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504075
abstract: We show how to encode $2^n$ (classical) bits $a_1,...,a_{2^n}$ by a single quantum state $|\Psi>$ of size O(n) qubits, such that: for any constant $k$ and any $i_1,...,i_k \in \{1,...,2^n\}$, the values of the bits $a_{i_1},...,a_{i_k}$ can be retrieved from $|\Psi>$ by a one-round Arthur-Merlin interactive protocol of size polynomial in $n$. This shows how to go around Holevo-Nayak's Theorem, using Arthur-Merlin proofs. We use the new representation to prove the following results: 1) Interactive proofs with quantum advice: We show that the class $QIP/qpoly$ contains ALL languages. That is, for any language $L$ (even non-recursive), the membership $x \in L$ (for $x$ of length $n$) can be proved by a polynomial-size quantum interactive proof, where the verifier is a polynomial-size quantum circuit with working space initiated with some quantum state $|\Psi_{L,n} >$ (depending only on $L$ and $n$). Moreover, the interactive proof that we give is of only one round, and the messages communicated are classical. 2) PCP with only one query: We show that the membership $x \in SAT$ (for $x$ of length $n$) can be proved by a logarithmic-size quantum state $|\Psi >$, together with a polynomial-size classical proof consisting of blocks of length $polylog(n)$ bits each, such that after measuring the state $|\Psi >$ the verifier only needs to read {\bf one} block of the classical proof. While the first result is a straight forward consequence of the new representation, the second requires an additional machinery of quantum low-degree-test that may be interesting in its own right.

id: quant-ph/0504076
title: Long-lived qubit memory using atomic ions
authors: C. Langer, R. Ozeri, J. D. Jost, J. Chiaverini, B. DeMarco, A. Ben-Kish, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, D. B. Hume, W. M. Itano, D. Leibfried, R. Reichle, T. Rosenband, T. Schaetz, P. O. Schmidt, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504076
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a robust quantum memory using a magnetic-field-independent hyperfine transition in 9Be+ atomic ion qubits at a magnetic field B ~= 0.01194 T. We observe that the single physical qubit memory coherence time is greater than 10 seconds, an improvement of approximately five orders of magnitude from previous experiments with 9Be+. We also observe long coherence times of decoherence-free subspace logical qubits comprising two entangled physical qubits and discuss the merits of each type of qubit.

id: quant-ph/0504077
title: Theoretical study of polarization tracking in satellite quantum key distribution
authors: Jing Ma, Guangyu Zhang, Yiwen Rong, Liying Tan
comments: 9pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504077
abstract: The BB84 and B92 protocols based on polarization coding are usually used in free-space quantum key distribution. Polarization tracking technique is one of the key techniques in the satellite quantum key distribution. Because the photon polarization state will be changed as a result of the satellite movement, both the transmitter and receiver need to have the ability to track the polarization orientation variation to accomplish the quantum cryptography protocols. In this paper, the polarization tracking principles are analyzed based on Faraday effect and the half-wave plate. The transforms of six photon polarization states in three conjugative bases are given and the quantum key coding principles based on the polarization tracking are analyzed for the BB84 and B92 protocols.

id: quant-ph/0504078
title: Possibility, Impossibility and Cheat-Sensitivity of Quantum Bit String Commitment
authors: Harry Buhrman, Matthias Christandl, Patrick Hayden, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 10 pages, RevTex, 2 figure. v2: title change, cheat-sensitivity added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504078
abstract: Unconditionally secure non-relativistic bit commitment is known to be impossible in both the classical and the quantum worlds. But when committing to a string of n bits at once, how far can we stretch the quantum limits? In this paper, we introduce a framework for quantum schemes where Alice commits a string of n bits to Bob in such a way that she can only cheat on a bits and Bob can learn at most b bits of information before the reveal phase. Our results are two-fold: we show by an explicit construction that in the traditional approach, where the reveal and guess probabilities form the security criteria, no good schemes can exist: a+b is at least n. If, however, we use a more liberal criterion of security, the accessible information, we construct schemes where a=4log n+O(1) and b=4, which is impossible classically. We furthermore present a cheat-sensitive quantum bit string commitment protocol for which we give an explicit tradeoff between Bob's ability to gain information about the committed string, and the probability of him being detected cheating.

id: quant-ph/0504079
title: Relations between Entanglement Witnesses and Bell Inequalities
authors: P. Hyllus, O. Guehne, D. Bruss, M. Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012321 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504079
abstract: Bell inequalities, considered within quantum mechanics, can be regarded as non-optimal witness operators. We discuss the relationship between such Bell witnesses and general entanglement witnesses in detail for the Bell inequality derived by Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt (CHSH). We derive bounds on how much an optimal witness has to be shifted by adding the identity operator to make it positive on all states admitting a local hidden variable model. In the opposite direction, we obtain tight bounds for the maximal proportion of the identity operator that can be subtracted from such a CHSH witness, while preserving the witness properties. Finally, we investigate the structure of CHSH witnesses directly by relating their diagonalized form to optimal witnesses of two different classes.

id: quant-ph/0504080
title: Mode transformations and entanglement relativity in bipartite gaussian states
authors: Emanuele Ciancio, Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: LaTeX 7 pages, 7 figures. Many typos (sorry) fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504080
abstract: A proper choice of subsystems for a system of identical particles e.g., bosons, is provided by second-quantized modes i.e.,creation/annihilation operators. Here we investigate how the entanglement properties of bipartite gaussian states of bosons change when modes are changed by means of unitary, number conserving, Bogolioubov transformations. This set of "virtual" bi-partitions is then finite-dimensionally parametrized and one can quantitatively address relevant questions such as the determination of the minimal and maximal available entanglement. In particular, we show that in the class of bipartite gaussian states there are states which remain separable for every possible modes redefinition, while do not exist states which remain entangled for every possible modes redefinition

id: quant-ph/0504081
title: Comment on "Entangled-Photon Imaging of a Pure Phase Object"
authors: M. Bache, A. Gatti, E. Brambilla, D. Magatti, F. Ferri, L.A. Lugiato
comments: Comment on A.F. Abouraddy, P.R. Stone, A.V. Sergienko, B.E.A. Saleh, and M.C. Teich, ``Entangled-Photon Imaging of a Pure Phase Object,'' Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 213903 (2004). Unpublished (rejected by Physical Review Letters), but for a publication holding main points see A. Gatti, M. Bache, D. Magatti, E. Brambilla, F. Ferri, and L.A. Lugiato "Coherent imaging with pseudo-thermal incoherent light", Journal of Modern Optics 53, 739-760 (2006), quant-ph/0504082. 1 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504081
abstract: Comment on A.F. Abouraddy, P.R. Stone, A.V. Sergienko, B.E.A. Saleh, and M.C. Teich, ``Entangled-Photon Imaging of a Pure Phase Object,'' Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 213903 (2004). Unpublished (rejected by Physical Review Letters), but for a publication holding main points see A. Gatti, M. Bache, D. Magatti, E. Brambilla, F. Ferri, and L.A. Lugiato "Coherent imaging with pseudo-thermal incoherent light", Journal of Modern Optics 53, 739-760 (2006), quant-ph/0504082.

id: quant-ph/0504082
title: Coherent imaging with pseudo-thermal incoherent light
authors: A. Gatti, M. Bache, D. Magatti, E. Brambilla, F. Ferri, L.A. Lugiato
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, to appear in J. Mod. Opt
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 53, 739-760 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504082
abstract: We investigate experimentally fundamental properties of coherent ghost imaging using spatially incoherent beams generated from a pseudo-thermal source. A complementarity between the coherence of the beams and the correlation between them is demonstrated by showing a complementarity between ghost diffraction and ordinary diffraction patterns. In order for the ghost imaging scheme to work it is therefore crucial to have incoherent beams. The visibility of the information is shown for the ghost image to become better as the object size relative to the speckle size is decreased, and therefore a remarkable tradeoff between resolution and visibility exists. The experimental conclusions are backed up by both theory and numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0504083
title: From optimal measurement to efficient quantum algorithms for the hidden subgroup problem over semidirect product groups
authors: Dave Bacon, Andrew M. Childs, Wim van Dam
comments: 18 pages; v2: updated references on optimal measurement
journal: Proc. 46th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2005), pp. 469-478
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504083
abstract: We approach the hidden subgroup problem by performing the so-called pretty good measurement on hidden subgroup states. For various groups that can be expressed as the semidirect product of an abelian group and a cyclic group, we show that the pretty good measurement is optimal and that its probability of success and unitary implementation are closely related to an average-case algebraic problem. By solving this problem, we find efficient quantum algorithms for a number of nonabelian hidden subgroup problems, including some for which no efficient algorithm was previously known: certain metacyclic groups as well as all groups of the form (Z_p)^r X| Z_p for fixed r (including the Heisenberg group, r=2). In particular, our results show that entangled measurements across multiple copies of hidden subgroup states can be useful for efficiently solving the nonabelian HSP.

id: quant-ph/0504084
title: Generating optimal states for a homodyne Bell test
authors: Sonja Daffer, Peter L. Knight
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032509 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504084
abstract: We present a protocol that produces a conditionally prepared state that can be used for a Bell test based on homodyne detection. Based on the results of Munro [PRA 1999], the state is near-optimal for Bell-inequality violations based on quadrature-phase homodyne measurements that use correlated photon-number states. The scheme utilizes the Gaussian entanglement distillation protocol of Eisert et. al. [Annals of Phys. 2004] and uses only beam splitters and photodetection to conditionally prepare a non-Gaussian state from a source of two-mode squeezed states with low squeezing parameter, permitting a loophole-free test of Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0504085
title: (Almost) tight bounds for randomized and quantum Local Search on hypercubes and grids
authors: Shengyu Zhang
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. v2: introduction rewritten, references added. v3: a line for grant added. v4: upper bound section rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504085
abstract: The Local Search problem, which finds a local minimum of a black-box function on a given graph, is of both practical and theoretical importance to many areas in computer science and natural sciences. In this paper, we show that for the Boolean hypercube $\B^n$, the randomized query complexity of Local Search is $\Theta(2^{n/2}n^{1/2})$ and the quantum query complexity is $\Theta(2^{n/3}n^{1/6})$. We also show that for the constant dimensional grid $[N^{1/d}]^d$, the randomized query complexity is $\Theta(N^{1/2})$ for $d \geq 4$ and the quantum query complexity is $\Theta(N^{1/3})$ for $d \geq 6$. New lower bounds for lower dimensional grids are also given. These improve the previous results by Aaronson [STOC'04], and Santha and Szegedy [STOC'04]. Finally we show for $[N^{1/2}]^2$ a new upper bound of $O(N^{1/4}(\log\log N)^{3/2})$ on the quantum query complexity, which implies that Local Search on grids exhibits different properties at low dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0504086
title: Detection of Macroscopic Entanglement by Correlation of Local Observables
authors: Akira Shimizu, Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: This is the published version. (4 pages, no figures.)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504086
abstract: We propose a correlation of local observables on many sites in macroscopic quantum systems. By measuring the correlation one can detect, if any, superposition of macroscopically distinct states, which we call macroscopic entanglement, in arbitrary quantum states that are (effectively) homogeneous. Using this property, we also propose an index of macroscopic entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0504087
title: Quantum multiparty communication complexity and circuit lower bounds
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504087
abstract: We define a quantum model for multiparty communication complexity and prove a simulation theorem between the classical and quantum models. As a result of our simulation, we show that if the quantum k-party communication complexity of a function f is $\Omega(n/2^k)$, then its classical k-party communication is $\Omega(n/2^{k/2})$. Finding such an f would allow us to prove strong classical lower bounds for (k>log n) players and hence resolve a main open question about symmetric circuits. Furthermore, we prove that for the Generalized Inner Product (GIP) function, the quantum model is exponentially more efficient than the classical one. This provides the first exponential separation for a total function between any quantum and public coin randomized communication model.

id: quant-ph/0504088
title: Conversational (dialogue) model of quantum transitions
authors: Pavel Kurakin, George Malinetskii, Howard Bloom
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, reported at 11th International Conference on Composites and Nano Materials (ICCE - 11, 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504088
abstract: We introduce an original model of quantum phenomena, a model that provides a picture of a "deep structure", an "underlying pattern" of quantum dynamics. We propose that the source of a particle and all of that particle's possible detectors "talk" before the particle is finally observed by just one detector. These talks do not take place in physical time. They occur in what we call "hidden time". Talks are spatially organized in such a way that the model reproduces standard quantum probability amplitudes. This is most obviously seen if one uses R. Feynman's formulation of quantum theory. We prefer the "physical level" of mathematical strictness in describing our model. The model was initially designed without any background except R. Feynman's many - paths approach. But it later became apparent that the suggested mechanism is highly generalizable, and may apply to a wide spectrum of self - organized systems, including living systems. Stories about such systems are attached in appendices.

id: quant-ph/0504089
title: Hidden variables and hidden time in quantum theory
authors: Pavel V. Kurakin
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504089
abstract: Bell's theorem proves only that hidden variables evolving in true physical time can't exist; still the theorem's meaning is usually interpreted intolerably wide. The concept of hidden time (and, in general, hidden space-time) is introduced. Such concept provides a whole new class of physical theories, fully compatible with current knowledge, but giving new tremendous possibilities. Those theories do not violate Bell's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0504090
title: Generation of Werner states and preservation of entnglement in a noisy environment
authors: L. Jakobczyk, A. Jamroz
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, content changed, references added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 347, 180(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504090
abstract: We study the influence of noisy environment on the evolution of two-atomic system in the presence of collective damping. Generation of Werner states as asymptotic states of evolution is described. We also show that for some initial states the amount of entanglement is preserved during the evolution.

id: quant-ph/0504091
title: On the Matrix Representation of Quantum Operations
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu, Kazuo Nakamura
comments: 11 pages, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504091
abstract: This paper considers two frequently used matrix representations -- what we call the $\chi$- and $\mathcal{S}$-matrices -- of a quantum operation and their applications. The matrices defined with respect to an arbitrary operator basis, that is, the orthonormal basis for the space of linear operators on the state space are considered for a general operation acting on a single or two \textit{d}-level quantum system (qudit). We show that the two matrices are given by the expansion coefficients of the Liouville superoperator as well as the associated bijective, positive operator on the doubled-space defined with respect to two types of induced operator basis having different tensor product structures, i.e., Kronecker products of the relevant operator basis and dyadic products of the associated bipartite state basis. The explicit conversion formulas between the two matrices are established as a computable matrix multiplication. Extention to more qudits case is trivial. Several applications of these matrices and the conversion formulas in quantum information science and technology are presented.

id: quant-ph/0504092
title: "Measurement" by neuronal tunneling: Implications of Born's rule
authors: L. Polley
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504092
abstract: A non-collapse scenario for ``conscious'' selection of a term from a superposition was proposed in quant-ph/0309166: thermally assisted tunneling of neuronal pore molecules. But ``observers'' consisting of only two neurons appear to be at odds with Born's rule. In the present paper, an observer is assumed to possess a large number of auxilliary properties irrelevant for the result of the measurement. Born's rule then reduces to postulating that, prior to the result becoming conscious, irrelevant properties are in an entangled state with maximum likelihood, in the sense that phase-equivalent entanglements cover a maximal fraction of the unit sphere (leading to equal-amplitude superpositions).

id: quant-ph/0504093
title: Codes for Key Generation in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Fang-Wei Fu, Harald Niederreiter, Chaoping Xing
comments: IJQI format, 13 pages, 1 table
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 3 (2005) 97-110 (supplement issue)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504093
abstract: As an alternative to the usual key generation by two-way communication in schemes for quantum cryptography, we consider codes for key generation by one-way communication. We study codes that could be applied to the raw key sequences that are ideally obtained in recently proposed scenarios for quantum key distribution, which can be regarded as communication through symmetric four-letter channels.

id: quant-ph/0504094
title: Theory of a single-atom laser including light forces
authors: Thomas Salzburger, Peter Domokos, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504094
abstract: We study a single incoherently pumped atom moving within an optical high-Q resonator in the strong coupling regime. Using a semiclassical description for the atom and field dynamics, we derive a closed system of differential equations to describe this coupled atom-field dynamics. For sufficiently strong pumping the system starts lasing when the atom gets close to a field antinode, and the associated light forces provide for self-trapping of the atom. For a cavity mode blue detuned with respect to the atomic transition frequency this is combined with cavity induced motional cooling allowing for long term steady-state operation of such a laser. The analytical results for temperature and field statistics agree well with our earlier predictions based on Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We find sub-Doppler temperatures that decrease with gain and coupling strength and can even go beyond the limit of passive cavity cooling. Besides demonstrating the importance of light forces in single-atom lasers, this result also gives strong evidence to enhance laser cooling through stimulated emission in resonators.

id: quant-ph/0504095
title: Infinite number of conditions for local mixed state manipulations
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 72, 022323 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504095
abstract: It is shown that a finite number of conditions are {\em not} sufficient to determine the locality of transformations between two probability distributions of pure states as well as the locality of transformations between two $d\times d$ mixed states with $d\geq 4$. As an example, an infinite, but minimal, set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a local procedure that converts one probability distribution of two pure pair of qubits into another one is found.

id: quant-ph/0504096
title: Theory of slow-light solitons
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko, A.R. Bishop
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504096
abstract: In the framework of the nonlinear $\Lambda$-model we investigate propagation of solitons in atomic vapors and Bose-Einstein condensates. We show how the complicated nonlinear interplay between fast solitons and slow-light solitons in the $\Lambda$-type media points to the possibility to create optical gates and, thus, to control the optical transparency of the $\Lambda$-type media. We provide an exact analytic description of decelerating, stopping and re-accelerating of slow-light solitons in atomic media in the nonadiabatic regime. Dynamical control over slow-light solitons is realized via a controlling field generated by an auxiliary laser. For a rather general time dependence of the field; we find the dynamics of the slow-light soliton inside the medium. We provide an analytical description for the nonlinear dependence of the velocity of the signal on the controlling field. If the background field is turned off at some moment of time, the signal stops. We find the location and shape of the spatially localized memory bit imprinted into the medium. We discuss physically interesting features of our solution, which are in a good agreement with recent experiments.

id: quant-ph/0504097
title: Cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 15 pages, resubmitted version accepted to Rev. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504097
abstract: This article is a short introduction to and review of the cluster-state model of quantum computation, in which coherent quantum information processing is accomplished via a sequence of single-qubit measurements applied to a fixed quantum state known as a cluster state. We also discuss a few novel properties of the model, including a proof that the cluster state cannot occur as the exact ground state of any naturally occurring physical system, and a proof that measurements on any quantum state which is linearly prepared in one dimension can be efficiently simulated on a classical computer, and thus are not candidates for use as a substrate for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0504098
title: A Subtlety of the Schr?dinger Picture Dynamics
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Minor amendments, typos corrected, to appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: Rept.Math.Phys. 56 (2005) 153-160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504098
abstract: We address a mathematical and physical status of exotic (like e.g. fractal) wave packets and their quantum dynamics. To this end, we extend the formal meaning of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation beyond the domain of the Hamiltonian. The dynamical importance of the finite mean energy condition is elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0504099
title: Optimal Quantum Feedback Control for Canonical Observables
authors: John Gough
comments: 11 pages, no figures (revised version: typographical errors corrected, references added)
journal: Quantum Stochastics and Information: Statistics, Filtering & Control, pp. 262-279 Eds. M. Guta and V.P. Belavkin, World Scientific 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504099
abstract: We show that the stochastic Schrodinger equation for the filtered state of a system, with linear free dynamics, undergoing continual non-demolition measurement or either position or momentum, or both together, can be solved explicitly within a class of Gaussian states which we call extended coherent states. The asymptotic limit yields a class of relaxed states which we describe explicitly. Bellman's principle is then applied directly to optimal feedback control of such dynamical systems and the Hamilton Jacobi Bellman equation for the minimum cost is derived. The situation of quadratic performance criteria is treated as the important special case and solved exactly for the class of relaxed states.

id: quant-ph/0504100
title: Decompositions of general quantum gates
authors: M. Mottonen, J. J. Vartiainen
comments: A chapter of a book Quantum Computing: New Research
journal: Ch. 7 in Trends in Quantum Computing Research (NOVA Publishers, New York), 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504100
abstract: Quantum algorithms may be described by sequences of unitary transformations called quantum gates and measurements applied to the quantum register of n quantum bits, qubits. A collection of quantum gates is called universal if it can be used to construct any n-qubit gate. In 1995, the universality of the set of one-qubit gates and controlled NOT gate was shown by Barenco et al. using QR decomposition of unitary matrices. Almost ten years later the decomposition was improved to include essentially fewer elementary gates. In addition, the cosine-sine matrix decomposition was applied to efficiently implement decompositions of general quantum gates. In this chapter, we review the different types of general gate decompositions and slightly improve the best known gate count for the controlled NOT gates to (23/48)4^n in the leading order. In physical realizations, the interaction strength between the qubits can decrease strongly as a function of their distance. Therefore, we also discuss decompositions with the restriction to nearest-neighbor interactions in a linear chain of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0504101
title: Hypercomputability of quantum adiabatic processes: Fact versus Prejudices
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures. Invited paper for a special issue of the Journal of Applied Mathematics and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504101
abstract: We give an overview of a quantum adiabatic algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem, including some discussions on its fundamental aspects and the emphasis on the probabilistic correctness of its findings. For the purpose of illustration, the numerical simulation results of some simple Diophantine equations are presented. We also discuss some prejudicial misunderstandings as well as some plausible difficulties faced by the algorithm in its physical implementation.

id: quant-ph/0504102
title: Complex numbers and symmetries in quantum mechanics, and a nonlinear superposition principle for Wigner functions
authors: A.J. Bracken
comments: 14 pages. Latex_2e file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504102
abstract: Complex numbers appear in the Hilbert space formulation of quantum mechanics, but not in the formulation in phase space. Quantum symmetries are described by complex, unitary or antiunitary operators defining ray representations in Hilbert space, whereas in phase space they are described by real, true representations. Equivalence of the formulations requires that the former representations can be obtained from the latter and vice versa. Examples are given. Equivalence of the two formulations also requires that complex superpositions of state vectors can be described in the phase space formulation, and it is shown that this leads to a nonlinear superposition principle for orthogonal, pure-state Wigner functions. It is concluded that the use of complex numbers in quantum mechanics can be regarded as a computational device to simplify calculations, as in all other applications of mathematics to physical phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0504103
title: Electron-nuclear entanglement in the cold lithium gas
authors: Guo-Qiang Zhu, Jun-Wen Mao, You-Quan Li
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504103
abstract: We study the ground-state entanglement and thermal entanglement in the hyperfine interaction of the lithium atom. We give the relationship between the entanglement and both temperature and external magnetic fields.

id: quant-ph/0504104
title: Statistical Properties of a Quantum Cellular Automaton
authors: Norio Inui, Shuichi Inokuchi, Yoshihiro Mizoguchi, Norio Konno
comments: 20 pages,4 fgures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504104
abstract: We study a quantum cellular automaton (QCA) whose time-evolution is defined from global transition function of classical cellular automata (CA). In order to investigate natural transformations from CA to QCA, the present QCA includes CA with Wolfram's rule 150 and 105 as special cases. We firstly compute the time-evolution of the QCA and examine its statistical properties. As a basic statistical value, the probability of finding an active cell averaged over a spatial-temporal space is introduced, and the difference between CA and QCA is considered. In addition, it is shown that statistical properties in QCA are related to the classical trajectory in the configuration space.

id: quant-ph/0504105
title: Wave function collapse implies divergence of average displacement
authors: A. Marchewka, Z. Schuss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504105
abstract: We show that propagating a truncated discontinuous wave function by Schr\"odinger's equation, as asserted by the collapse axiom, gives rise to non-existence of the average displacement of the particle on the line. It also implies that there is no Zeno effect. On the other hand, if the truncation is done so that the reduced wave function is continuous, the average coordinate is finite and there is a Zeno effect. Therefore the collapse axiom of measurement needs to be revised.

id: quant-ph/0504106
title: Levy Flights over Quantum Paths
authors: Nick Laskin
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504106
abstract: An impact of integration over the paths of the Levy flights on the quantum mechanical kernel has been studied. Analytical expression for a free particle kernel has been obtained in terms of the Fox H-function. A new equation for the kernel of a partical in the box has been found. New general results include the well known quantum formulae for a free particle kernel and particle in box kernel.

id: quant-ph/0504107
title: Extended Cahill and Glauber formalism for finite dimensional spaces II. Applications in quantum tomography and quantum teleportation
authors: M.A. Marchiolli, M. Ruzzi, D. Galetti
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, sequel of quant-ph/0503054 (J. Phys. A, v.38, pp. 6239 (2005)). To appear in PRA v. 72 (3), 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504107
abstract: By means of a new mod(N)-invariant operator basis, s-parametrized phase-space functions associated with bounded operators in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space are introduced in the context of the extended Cahill-Glauber formalism, and their properties are discussed in details. The discrete Glauber-Sudarshan, Wigner, and Husimi functions emerge from this formalism as specific cases of s-parametrized phase-space functions where, in particular, a hierarchical process among them is promptly established. In addition, a phase-space description of quantum tomography and quantum teleportation is presented and new results are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0504108
title: An Algebraic Approach to Linear-Optical Schemes for Deterministic Quantum Computing
authors: P. Aniello, R. Coen Cagli
comments: new version with minor modifications
journal: J.Opt.B Quant.Semiclass.Opt. 7 (2005) S711-S720
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504108
abstract: Linear-Optical Passive (LOP) devices and photon counters are sufficient to implement universal quantum computation with single photons, and particular schemes have already been proposed. In this paper we discuss the link between the algebraic structure of LOP transformations and quantum computing. We first show how to decompose the Fock space of N optical modes in finite-dimensional subspaces that are suitable for encoding strings of qubits and invariant under LOP transformations (these subspaces are related to the spaces of irreducible unitary representations of U(N)). Next we show how to design in algorithmic fashion LOP circuits which implement any quantum circuit deterministically. We also present some simple examples, such as the circuits implementing a CNOT gate and a Bell-State Generator/Analyzer.

id: quant-ph/0504109
title: Foundations of Probability and Physics-3: Preface of Proceedings and Round Table on Quantum Foundations and Computing
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: AIP Conference Proceedings, v. 750: Foundations of Probability and Physics-3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504109
abstract: This preprint contains a detailed Preface to Proceedinngs of the International Conference ``Foundations of Probability and Physics-3'' held in V\"axj\"o, Sweden, 7-12 June 2004; table of contents and round table. The main theme of the round table was {\it ``Fundamental problems in quantum mechanics, probabilistic description of reality, and quantum information.''} The topics that were specifically discussed were that of Quantum Cryptography, Quantum computing, and Quantum Macroscopic Structures. For each of these topics, the participants were asked to discuss which are the crucial Quantum features required among the following : violation of Bell's inequality, Entanglement, Complementarity, and Interference of Probabilities. Finally, the connection between Mental states and Quantum states was discussed.

id: quant-ph/0504110
title: On a Density-of-States Approach to Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Guy Potvin
comments: 6 pages, no figures, revtex4, added references and more detailed exposition
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504110
abstract: We propose the idea that in Bohmian mechanics the wavefunction is related to a density of states and explore some of its consequences. Specifically, it allows a maximum-entropy interpretation of quantum probabilities, which creates a stronger link between it and statistical mechanics. The proposed approach also allows a range of extensions of the guidance condition in Bohmian mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0504111
title: Efficient Graph State Construction Under the Barrett and Kok Scheme
authors: Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures. Small refinements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 056302 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504111
abstract: Recently Barrett and Kok (BK) proposed an elegant method for entangling separated matter qubits. They outlined a strategy for using their entangling operation (EO) to build graph states, the resource for one-way quantum computing. However by viewing their EO as a graph fusion event, one perceives that each successful event introduces an ideal redundant graph edge, which growth strategies should exploit. For example, if each EO succeeds with probability p=0.4 then a highly connected graph can be formed with an overhead of only about ten EO attempts per graph edge. The BK scheme then becomes competitive with the more elaborate entanglement procedures designed to permit p to approach unity.

id: quant-ph/0504112
title: Entanglement distribution by an arbitrarily inept delivery service
authors: S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman, D. T. Pope
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. v2 includes minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 022330 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504112
abstract: We consider the scenario where a company C manufactures in bulk pure entangled pairs of particles, each pair intended for a distinct pair of distant customers. Unfortunately, its delivery service is inept - the probability that any given customer pair receives its intended particles is S, and the customers cannot detect whether an error has occurred. Remarkably, no matter how small S is, it is still possible for C to distribute entanglement by starting with non-maximally entangled pairs. We determine the maximum entanglement distributable for a given S, and also determine the ability of the parties to perform nonlocal tasks with the qubits they receive.

id: quant-ph/0504113
title: A relation between fidelity and quantum adiabatic evolution
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504113
abstract: Recently, some quantum algorithms have been implemented by quantum adiabatic evolutions. In this paper, we discuss the accurate relation between the running time and the distance of the initial state and the final state of a kind of quantum adiabatic evolutions. We show that this relation can be generalized to the case of mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0504114
title: On the Original Proof by Reductio ad Absurdum of the Hohenberg-Kohn Theorem for Many-Electron Coulomb Systems
authors: Eugene S. Kryachko
comments: 14 pages. Int. J. Quantum Chem. to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504114
abstract: It is shown that, for isolated many-electron Coulomb systems with Coulombic external potentials, the usual reductio ad absurdum proof of the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem is unsatisfactory since the to-be-refuted assumption made about the one-electron densities and the assumption about the external potentials are not compatible with the Kato cusp condition. The theorem is, however, provable by more sophisticated means and it is shown here that the Kato cusp condition actually leads to a satisfactory proof.

id: quant-ph/0504115
title: Logical analysis of the Bohr Complementarity Principle in Afshar's experiment under the NAFL interpretation
authors: Radhakrishnan Srinivasan
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure. Ref. [7] updated. Typo corrected
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 8, Issue 3 (2010) pp. 465-491
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504115
abstract: The NAFL (non-Aristotelian finitary logic) interpretation of quantum mechanics requires that no `physical' reality can be ascribed to the wave nature of the photon. The NAFL theory QM, formalizing quantum mechanics, treats the superposed state ($S$) of a single photon taking two or more different paths at the same time as a logical contradiction that is formally unprovable in QM. Nevertheless, in a nonclassical NAFL model for QM in which the law of noncontradiction fails, $S$ has a meaningful metamathematical interpretation that the classical path information for the photon is not available. It is argued that the existence of an interference pattern does not logically amount to a proof of the self-interference of a single photon. This fact, when coupled with the temporal nature of NAFL truth, implies the logical validity of the retroactive assertion of the path information (and the logical superfluousness of the grid) in Afshar's experiment. The Bohr complementarity principle, when properly interpreted with the time dependence of logical truth taken into account, holds in Afshar's experiment. NAFL supports, but not demands, a metalogical reality for the particle nature of the photon even when the semantics of QM requires the state $S$.

id: quant-ph/0504116
title: Quantum walks on directed graphs
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 10 pages, some xypic figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 7, no. 1 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504116
abstract: We consider the definition of quantum walks on directed graphs. Call a directed graph reversible if, for each pair of vertices (i, j), if i is connected to j then there is a path from j to i. We show that reversibility is a necessary and sufficient condition for a directed graph to allow the notion of a discrete-time quantum walk, and discuss some implications of this condition. We present a method for defining a "partially quantum" walk on directed graphs that are not reversible.

id: quant-ph/0504117
title: Fast simulation of stabilizer circuits using a graph state representation
authors: Simon Anders, Hans J. Briegel
comments: v2: significantly improved presentation; accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022334 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504117
abstract: According to the Gottesman-Knill theorem, a class of quantum circuits, namely the so-called stabilizer circuits, can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer. We introduce a new algorithm for this task, which is based on the graph-state formalism. It shows significant improvement in comparison to an existing algorithm, given by Gottesman and Aaronson, in terms of speed and of the number of qubits the simulator can handle. We also present an implementation.

id: quant-ph/0504118
title: Quantum Heat Engine With Multi-Level Quantum Systems
authors: H. T. Quan, P. Zhang, C. P. Sun
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 72, 056110 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504118
abstract: By reformulating the first law of thermodynamics in the fashion of quantum-mechanical operators on the parameter manifold, we propose a universal class of quantum heat engines (QHE) using the multi-level quantum system as the working substance. We obtain a general expression of work for the thermodynamic cycle with two thermodynamic adiabatic processes, which are microscopically quantum adiabatic processes. We also classify the conditions for a 3-level QHE to extract positive work from a heat bath. Our result is counter-intuitively different from that of a 2-level system. As a more realistic illustration, a 3-level atom system with dark state configuration manipulated by classical light is used to demonstrate our central idea.

id: quant-ph/0504119
title: Bidirectional quantum secret sharing and secret splitting with polarized single photons
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou, Gui Lu Long
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Physics Letters A 337 (2005) 329-334
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504119
abstract: In this Letter, we present quantum secret sharing and secret splitting protocols with single photons running forth and back between the participating parties. The protocol has a high intrinsic efficiency, namely all photons except those chosen for eavesdropping check could be used for sharing secret. The participants need not to announce the measuring bases at most of the time and this reduces the classical information exchanged largely.

id: quant-ph/0504120
title: An efficient quantum secret sharing scheme with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Pairs
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 7 pages 2 figures. The revised version of the paper published in Physics Letters A 340 (2005) 43-50. A way for preventing the dishonest agent from eavesdropping with a fake signal is presented
journal: Physics Letters A 340 (2005) 43-50
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504120
abstract: An efficient quantum secret sharing scheme is proposed. In this scheme, the particles in an entangled pair group form two particle sequences. One sequence is sent to Bob and the other is sent to Charlie after rearranging the particle orders. Bob and Charlie make coding unitary operations and send the particles back. Alice makes Bell-basis measurement to read their coding operations.

id: quant-ph/0504121
title: Common Cause and Contextual Realization of Bell Correlation
authors: A. Shafiee, R. Maleeh, M. Golshani
comments: 17 pages, 4 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504121
abstract: Considering the common cause principle, we construct a local-contextual hidden-variable model for the Bohm version of EPR experiment. Our proposed model can reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics. It can be also extended to classical examples in which similar correlations may be revealed.

id: quant-ph/0504122
title: Comment on "A linear optics implementation of weak values in Hardy's paradox"
authors: J.S. Lundeen, K.J. Resch, A.M. Steinberg
comments: To be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504122
abstract: A recent experimental proposal by Ahnert and Payne [S.E. Ahnert and M.C. Payne, Phys. Rev. A 70, 042102 (2004)] outlines a method to measure the weak value predictions of Aharonov in Hardy's paradox. This proposal contains flaws such as the state preparation method and the procedure for carrying out the requisite weak measurements. We identify previously published solutions to some of the flaws.

id: quant-ph/0504123
title: Irrotational Momentum Fluctuations Conditioning the Quantum Nature of Physical Processes
authors: Stephan I. Tzenov
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504123
abstract: Starting from a simple classical framework and employing some stochastic concepts, the basic ingredients of the quantum formalism are recovered. It has been shown that the traditional axiomatic structure of quantum mechanics can be rebuilt, so that the quantum mechanical framework resembles to a large extent that of the classical statistical mechanics. The main assumption used here is the existence of a random irrotational component in the classical momentum. Various basic elements of the quantum formalism (calculation of expectation values, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, the correspondence principle) are recovered by applying traditional techniques, borrowed from classical statistical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0504124
title: Quantum-classical correspondence via a deformed kinetic operator
authors: Ricardo A. Mosna, Ian P. Hamilton, Luigi Delle Site
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 38, 3869-3878 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504124
abstract: We propose an approach to the quantum-classical correspondence based on a deformation of the momentum and kinetic operators of quantum mechanics. Making use of the factorization method, we construct classical versions of the momentum and kinetic operators which, in addition to the standard quantum expressions, contain terms that are functionals of the N-particle density. We show that this implementation of the quantum-classical correspondence is related to Witten's deformation of the exterior derivative and Laplacian, introduced in the context of supersymmetric quantum mechanics. The corresponding deformed action is also shown to be related to the Fisher information. Finally, we briefly consider the possible relevance of our approach to the construction of kinetic-energy density functionals.

id: quant-ph/0504125
title: The Discontinuous Spatiality of Quantum Mechanical Objects
authors: Helio V. Fagundes
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Version 2 with a number of (mostly style) corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504125
abstract: The quantum mechanical wave-particle dualism is analyzed and criticized, in the framework of Reichenbach's concepts of phenomenon and interphenomenon. It is suggested that the dual pictures be de-emphasized in the study of quantum theory, and that a qualitative picture of atomic processes need not make use of them. In this connection we stress a view of the electron and other such particles as having discontinuous spatiality in time: they only have a place or a shape when they participate in a phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0504126
title: Faithful and deterministic teleportation of an arbitrary $N$-qubit state using and identifying only Bell states
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: Any suggestions, comments and helps are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504126
abstract: First, I show explicitly a scheme to {\it faithfully} and {\it deterministically} teleport an arbitrary 2-qubit state from Alice to Bob. In this scheme two same Bell states are sufficient for use. Bob can recover the 2-qubit state by performing at most 4 single-qubit unitary operations conditioned on Alice's 4-bit classical public message corresponding to her two Bell-state measurement outcomes. Then I generalize the 2-qubit teleportation scheme to an aribitrary $N(N\ge 3)$-qubit state teleportation case by using $N$ same Bell states. In the generalized scheme, Alice only needs to identify $N$ Bell states after quantum swapping and then publish her measurement outcomes ($2N$-bit classical message). Conditioned on Alice's $2N$-bit classical message, Bob only needs to perform at most $2N$ single-qubit unitary operations to {\it fully} recover the arbitrary state. By comparing with the newest relevant work [Phys. Rev. A{\bf 71}, 032303(2005)], the advantages of the present schemes are revealed, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0504127
title: "Local Instruction-Set Model for the Experiment of Pan et al" of Aschwanden, Philipp, Hess, and Barraza-Lopez Cannot Beat Quantum Models
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Jian-Wei Pan, Tomasz Paterek, Marek Zukowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504127
abstract: We show the critique of the Pan et al experiment, given in quant-ph/0503108, is unfounded.

id: quant-ph/0504128
title: Wath Time an Incident Wave Packet is Reflected?
authors: Khaled Saaidi
comments: 9 pages, latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504128
abstract: We study the one dimensional time dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a potential step with $E < V_0$. We obtain the wave is not instantaneously reflected, but for a few moment of time the wave packet penetrate into inaccessible classically region and then reflected. So it is shown that one can write the peneterated wave paket as superposition of incident and reflected wave packets like.

id: quant-ph/0504129
title: Distributivity breaking and macroscopic quantum games
authors: A. A. Grib, A. Yu. Khrennikov, G. N. Parfionov, K. A. Starkov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504129
abstract: Examples of games between two partners with mixed strategies, calculated by the use of the probability amplitude as some vector in Hilbert space are given. The games are macroscopic, no microscopic quantum agent is supposed. The reason for the use of the quantum formalism is in breaking of the distributivity property for the lattice of yes-no questions arising due to the special rules of games. The rules of the games suppose two parts: the preparation and measurement. In the first part due to use of the quantum logical orthocomplemented non-distributive lattice the partners freely choose the wave functions as descriptions of their strategies. The second part consists of classical games described by Boolean sublattices of the initial non-Boolean lattice with same strategies which were chosen in the first part. Examples of games for spin one half are given. New Nash equilibria are found for some cases. Heisenberg uncertainty relations without the Planck constant are written for the "spin one half game".

id: quant-ph/0504130
title: The Vortex Phase Qubit: Generating Arbitrary, Counter-Rotating, Coherent Superpositions in Bose-Einstein Condensates via Optical Angular Momentum Beams
authors: Kishore T. Kapale, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Revtex4, to be submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Physics Review Letters, vol. 95, art. no. 173601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504130
abstract: We propose a scheme for generation of arbitrary coherent superposition of vortex states in Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) using the orbital angular momentum (OAM) states of light. We devise a scheme to generate coherent superpositions of two counter-rotating OAM states of light using known experimental techniques. We show that a specially designed Raman scheme allows transfer of the optical vortex superposition state onto an initially non-rotating BEC. This creates an arbitrary and coherent superposition of a vortex and anti-vortex pair in the BEC. The ideas presented here could be extended to generate entangled vortex states, design memories for the OAM states of light, and perform other quantum information tasks. Applications to inertial sensing are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0504131
title: Compression Bases in Unital Groups
authors: D. J. Foulis
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504131
abstract: We study unital groups with a distinguished family of compressions called a compression base. A motivating example is the partially ordered additive group of a von Neumann algebra with all Naimark compressions as the compression base.

id: quant-ph/0504132
title: Limitations on the Utility of Exact Master Equations
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 319, 348 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504132
abstract: The low temperature solution of the exact master equation for an oscillator coupled to a linear passive heat bath is known to give rise to serious divergences. We now show that, even in the high temperature regime, problems also exist, notably the fact that the density matrix is not necessarily positive.

id: quant-ph/0504133
title: Implications of Superstrong Nonlocality for Cryptography
authors: Harry Buhrman, Matthias Christandl, Falk Unger, Stephanie Wehner, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages. v3: minor corrections, published version
journal: Proceedings of the Royal Society A, 462(2071), pages 1919-1932
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504133
abstract: Non-local boxes are hypothetical ``machines'' that give rise to superstrong non-local correlations, leading to a stronger violation of Bell/CHSH inequalities than is possible within the framework of quantum mechanics. We show how non-local boxes can be used to perform any two-party secure computation. We first construct a protocol for bit commitment and then show how to achieve oblivious transfer using non-local boxes. Both have been shown to be impossible using quantum mechanics alone.

id: quant-ph/0504134
title: The physics of no-bit-commitment : Generalized quantum non-locality versus oblivious transfer
authors: Tony Short, Nicolas Gisin, Sandu Popescu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504134
abstract: We show here that the recent work of Wolf and Wullschleger (quant-ph/0502030) on oblivious transfer apparently opens the possibility that non-local correlations which are stronger than those in quantum mechanics could be used for bit-commitment. This is surprising, because it is the very existence of non-local correlations which in quantum mechanics prevents bit-commitment. We resolve this apparent paradox by stressing the difference between non-local correlations and oblivious transfer, based on the time-ordering of their inputs and outputs, which prevents bit-commitment.

id: quant-ph/0504135
title: Quantum random walk of the field in an externally driven cavity
authors: G S Agarwal, P K Pathak
comments: 6-page 4-fig. submitted Phy. Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 033815 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504135
abstract: Using resonant interaction between atoms and the field in a high quality cavity, we show how to realize quantum random walks as proposed by Aharonov et al [Phys. Rev. A {\bf48}, 1687 (1993)]. The atoms are driven strongly by a classical field. Under conditions of strong driving we could realize an effective interaction of the form $ iS^{x}(a-a^{\dag})$ in terms of the spin operator associated with the two level atom and the field operators. This effective interaction generates displacement in the field's wavefunction depending on the state of the two level atom. Measurements of the state of the two level atom would then generate effective state of the field. Using a homodyne technique, the state of the quantum random walker can be monitored.

id: quant-ph/0504136
title: On the power of non-local boxes
authors: A. Broadbent, A. A. Methot
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Theoretical Computer Science C 358: 3-14, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504136
abstract: A non-local box is a virtual device that has the following property: given that Alice inputs a bit at her end of the device and that Bob does likewise, it produces two bits, one at Alice's end and one at Bob's end, such that the XOR of the outputs is equal to the AND of the inputs. This box, inspired from the CHSH inequality, was first proposed by Popescu and Rohrlich to examine the question: given that a maximally entangled pair of qubits is non-local, why is it not maximally non-local? We believe that understanding the power of this box will yield insight into the non-locality of quantum mechanics. It was shown recently by Cerf, Gisin, Massar and Popescu, that this imaginary device is able to simulate correlations from any measurement on a singlet state. Here, we show that the non-local box can in fact do much more: through the simulation of the magic square pseudo-telepathy game and the Mermin-GHZ pseudo-telepathy game, we show that the non-local box can simulate quantum correlations that no entangled pair of qubits can in a bipartite scenario and even in a multi-party scenario. Finally we show that a single non-local box cannot simulate all quantum correlations and propose a generalization for a multi-party non-local box. In particular, we show quantum correlations whose simulation requires an exponential amount of non-local boxes, in the number of maximally entangled qubit pairs.

id: quant-ph/0504137
title: Optimal generation of single-qubit operation from an always-on interaction by algebraic decoupling
authors: Jun Zhang, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504137
abstract: We present a direct algebraic decoupling approach to generate arbitrary single-qubit operations in the presence of a constant interaction by applying local control signals. To overcome the difficulty of undesirable entanglement generated by the untunable interaction, we derive local control fields that are designed to both drive the qubit systems back to unentangled states at the end of the time interval over which the desired single-qubit operation is completed. This approach is seen to be particularly relevant for the physical implementation of solid-state quantum computation and for the design of low-power pulses in NMR.

id: quant-ph/0504138
title: Optimal unambiguous filtering of a quantum state: An instance in mixed state discrimination
authors: Janos Bergou, Ulrike Herzog, Mark Hillery
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physical Review A 71, 042314 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504138
abstract: Deterministic discrimination of nonorthogonal states is forbidden by quantum measurement theory. However, if we do not want to succeed all the time, i.e. allow for inconclusive outcomes to occur, then unambiguous discrimination becomes possible with a certain probability of success. A variant of the problem is set discrimination: the states are grouped in sets and we want to determine to which particular set a given pure input state belongs. We consider here the simplest case, termed quantum state filtering, when the $N$ given non-orthogonal states, $\{|\psi_{1} >,..., |\psi_{N} > \}$, are divided into two sets and the first set consists of one state only while the second consists of all of the remaining states. We present the derivation of the optimal measurement strategy, in terms of a generalized measurement (POVM), to distinguish $|\psi_1>$ from the set $\{|\psi_2 >,...,|\psi_N > \}$ and the corresponding optimal success and failure probabilities. The results, but not the complete derivation, were presented previously [\prl {\bf 90}, 257901 (2003)] as the emphasis there was on appplication of the results to novel probabilistic quantum algorithms. We also show that the problem is equivalent to the discrimination of a pure state and an arbitrary mixed state.

id: quant-ph/0504139
title: Geometric Phase for entangled Mixed state
authors: H. T. Cui, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504139
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author

id: quant-ph/0504140
title: Coherent population trapping in quantized light field
authors: A.V. Taichenachev, A.M. Tumaikin, V.I. Yudin
comments: revtex4, twocolumn, 6 pages, including 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504140
abstract: A full quantum treatment of coherent population trapping (CPT) is given for a system of resonantly coupled atoms and electromagnetic field. We develop a regular analytical method of the construction of generalized dark states (GDS). It turns out that GDS do exist for all optical transitions $F_g\to F_e$, including bright transitions $F\to F+1$ and $F''\to F''$ with $F''$ a half-integer, for which the CPT effect is absent in a classical field. We propose an idea to use an optically thick medium with a transition $F''\to F''$ with $F'' \ge 3/2$ a half-integer as a ''quantum filter'', which transmits only a quantum light.

id: quant-ph/0504141
title: Quantum dephasing and decay of classical correlation functions in chaotic systems
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 026213 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504141
abstract: We discuss the dephasing induced by the internal classical chaotic motion in the absence of any external environment. To this end we consider a suitable extension of fidelity for mixed states which is measurable in a Ramsey interferometry experiment. We then relate the dephasing to the decay of this quantity which, in the semiclassical limit, is expressed in terms of an appropriate classical correlation function. Our results are derived analytically for the example of a nonlinear driven oscillator and then numerically confirmed for the kicked rotor model.

id: quant-ph/0504142
title: Bound states in continuum in an electron waveguide
authors: Kyungsun Na, Gonzalo Ordonez, Sungyun Kim
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504142
abstract: It is shown that in a double-cavity, two-dimensional electron waveguide, the interplay between quasi-bound states of each cavity leads to the appearance of bound states in continuum for certain distances between the cavities. These bound states may be used to trap electrons in de-localized states distributed in both cavities.

id: quant-ph/0504143
title: The Electromagnetic Field Stress Tensor between Dielectric Half-Spaces
authors: V. Sopova, L. H. Ford
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures; two references and some comments added
journal: Phys.Rev.D72:033001,2005; Erratum-ibid.D72:033001,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504143
abstract: The stress tensor for the quantized electromagnetic field is calculated in the region between a pair of dispersive, dielectric half-spaces. This generalizes the stress tensor for the Casimir energy to the case where the boundaries have finite reflectivity. We also include the effects of finite temperature. This allows us to discuss the circumstances under which the weak energy condition and the null energy condition can be violated in the presence of finite reflectivity and finite temperature.

id: quant-ph/0504144
title: Multipartite entangled state representation and its squeezing transformation
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Tong-qiang Song
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 338(2005)182-191
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504144
abstract: The multipartite entangled state $|p,\xi_2,\xi_2,...,\xi_n>$ for the total momentum and relative coordinates of n particles is constructed. The corresponding quantum mechanical operator with respect to the classical transformation $p\to e^{\lambda_1} p$, $\xi_i\to e^{\lambda_i} \xi_i$, $i=1,...,n$, in the state $|p,\xi_2,\xi_2,...,\xi_n>$ is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0504145
title: Canonical Form and Separability of PPT States on Multiple Quantum Spaces
authors: Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 3(2005)147-151
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504145
abstract: By using the "subtracting projectors" method in proving the separability of PPT states on multiple quantum spaces, we derive a canonical form of PPT states in ${\Cb}^{K_1} \otimes {\Cb}^{K_2} \otimes ... \otimes {\Cb}^{K_m} \otimes {\Cb}^N$ composite quantum systems with rank $N$, from which a sufficient separability condition for these states is presented.

id: quant-ph/0504146
title: Large-D Expansion from Variational Perturbation Theory
authors: Sebastian F. Brandt, Axel Pelster
comments: Author Information under this http URL and this http URL
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 46, 112105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504146
abstract: We derive recursively the perturbation series for the ground-state energy of the D-dimensional anharmonic oscillator and resum it using variational perturbation theory (VPT). From the exponentially fast converging approximants, we extract the coefficients of the large-D expansion to higher orders. The calculation effort is much smaller than in the standard field-theoretic approach based on the Hubbard-Stratonovich transformation.

id: quant-ph/0504147
title: Phase-dependent interference mechanisms in a three-level Lambda system driven by a quantized laser field
authors: Joerg Evers
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52, 2699 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504147
abstract: The dynamics of an atomic few-level system can depend on the phase of driving fields coupled to the atom if certain conditions are satisfied. This is of particular interest to control interference effects, which can alter the system properties considerably. In this article, we discuss the mechanisms of such phase control and interference effects in an atomic three-level system in $\Lambda$ configuration, where the upper state spontaneously decays into the two lower states. The lower states are coupled by a driving field, which we treat as quantized. This allows for an interpretation on the single photon level for both the vacuum and the driving field. By analyzing the system behavior for a driving field initially in non-classical states with only few Fock number states populated, we find that even though the driving field is coupled to the lower states only, it induces a multiplet of upper states. Then interference occurs independently in three-level subsystems in $V$ configuration, each formed by two adjacent upper states and a single dressed lower state.

id: quant-ph/0504148
title: Work extraction from tripartite entanglement
authors: Vincent Viguie, Koji Maruyama, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. v2: problem in Fig 2 fixed
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 195 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504148
abstract: The work extractable from correlated bipartite quantum systems can be used to distinguish entanglement from classical correlation. A natural question is now whether it can be generalised to multipartite systems. In this paper, we devise a protocol to distinguish the GHZ, the W, and separable states in terms of the thermodynamically extractable work under local operations and classical communication, and compare the results with those obtained from Mermin's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0504149
title: Algebraic analysis of quantum search with pure and mixed states
authors: D. Shapira, Y. Shimoni, O. Biham
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 042320 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504149
abstract: An algebraic analysis of Grover's quantum search algorithm is presented for the case in which the initial state is an arbitrary pure quantum state of n qubits. This approach reveals the geometrical structure of the quantum search process, which turns out to be confined to a four-dimensional subspace of the Hilbert space. This work unifies and generalizes earlier results on the time evolution of the amplitudes during the quantum search, the optimal number of iterations and the success probability. Furthermore, it enables a direct generalization to the case in which the initial state is a mixed state, providing an exact formula for the success probability.

id: quant-ph/0504150
title: Quantum Key Distribution with vacuum--one-photon entangled states
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 064303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504150
abstract: We present a scheme to realize a quantum key distribution using vacuum-one photon entangled states created both from Alice and Bob. The protocol consists in an exchange of spatial modes between Alice and Bob and in a recombination which allows one of them to reconstruct the bit encoded by the counterpart in the phase of the entangled state. The security of the scheme is analyzed against some simple kind of attack. The model is shown to reach higher efficiency with respect to prior schemes using phase encoding methods.

id: quant-ph/0504151
title: Entanglement entropy of fermions in any dimension and the Widom conjecture
authors: Dimitri Gioev, Israel Klich
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 100503 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504151
abstract: We show that entanglement entropy of free fermions scales faster then area law, as opposed to the scaling $L^{d-1}$ for the harmonic lattice, for example. We also suggest and provide evidence in support of an explicit formula for the entanglement entropy of free fermions in any dimension $d$, $S\sim c(\partial\Gamma,\partial\Omega)\cdot L^{d-1}\log L$ as the size of a subsystem $L\to\infty$, where $\partial\Gamma$ is the Fermi surface and $\partial\Omega$ is the boundary of the region in real space. The expression for the constant $c(\partial\Gamma,\partial\Omega)$ is based on a conjecture due to H. Widom. We prove that a similar expression holds for the particle number fluctuations and use it to prove a two sided estimates on the entropy $S$.

id: quant-ph/0504152
title: Long-lived quantum memory with nuclear atomic spins
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Gael Reinaudi, Alice Sinatra, Franck Lalo?, Elisabeth Giacobino, Michel Pinard
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 95 (2005) 123002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504152
abstract: We propose to store non-classical states of light into the macroscopic collective nuclear spin ($10^{18}$ atoms) of a $^3$He vapor, using metastability exchange collisions. These collisions, commonly used to transfer orientation from the metastable state $2^{3}S\_1$ to the ground state state of $^3$He, can also transfer quantum correlations. This gives a possible experimental scheme to map a squeezed vacuum field state onto a nuclear spin state with very long storage times (hours).

id: quant-ph/0504153
title: Entanglement and teleportation of macroscopic continuous variables by superconducting devices
authors: L. Fisch, I. E. Mazets, G. Kurizki
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures (in 5 .eps files)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504153
abstract: A current-biased low-temperature superconducting Josephson junction (JJ) is dynamically describable by the quantized motion of a fictitious particle in a "washboard" potential. The long coherence time of tightly-bound states in the washboard potential of a JJ has prompted the effort to couple JJs and operate them as entangled qubits, capable of forming building blocks of a scalable quantum computer. Here we consider a hitherto unexplored quantum aspect of coupled JJs: the ability to produce Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement of their continuous variables, namely, their magnetic fluxes and induced charges. Such entanglement, apart from its conceptual novelty, is the prerequisite for a far-reaching goal: teleportation of the flux and charge variables between JJs, implementing the transfer of an unknown quantum state along a network of such devices.

id: quant-ph/0504154
title: Multipartite reduction criteria for separability
authors: William Hall
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504154
abstract: The reduction criterion is a well known necessary condition for separable states, and states violating this condition are entangled and also 1-distillable. In this paper we introduce a new set of necessary conditions for separability of multipartite states, obtained from a set of positive but not completely positive maps. These conditions can be thought of as generalisations of the reduction criterion to multipartite systems. We use tripartite Werner states as an example to investigate the entanglement detecting powers of some of these new conditions, and we also look at what these conditions mean in terms of distillation. Finally, we show that these maps can be used to give a partial solution to the subsystem problem, as described in Ref. [14].

id: quant-ph/0504155
title: Decoherent histories and generalized measurements
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 12 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504155
abstract: The theory of decoherent histories allows one to talk of the behavior of quantum systems in the absence of measurement. This paper generalizes the idea of decoherent histories to arbitrary open system operations and proposes experimentally testable criteria for decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0504156
title: General model of quantum key distribution
authors: A. S. Trushechkin, I. V. Volovich
comments: 7 pages
journal: Doklady Mathematics 72 (2005) 795
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504156
abstract: A general mathematical framework for quantum key distribution based on the concepts of quantum channel and Turing machine is suggested. The security for its special case is proved. The assumption is that the adversary can perform only individual (in essence, classical) attacks. For this case an advantage of quantum key distribution over classical one is shown.

id: quant-ph/0504157
title: Simple Algorithm for Partial Quantum Search
authors: Vladimir E. Korepin, Lov K. Grover
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 5, number 1, page 5-10, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504157
abstract: Quite often in database search, we only need to extract portion of the information about the satisfying item. Recently Radhakrishnan & Grover [RG] considered this problem in the following form: the database of $N$ items was divided into $K$ equally sized blocks. The algorithm has just to find the block containing the item of interest. The queries are exactly the same as in the standard database search problem. [RG] invented a quantum algorithm for this problem of partial search that took about $0.33\sqrt{N/K}$ fewer iterations than the quantum search algorithm. They also proved that the best any quantum algorithm could do would be to save $0.78 \sqrt(N/K)$ iterations. The main limitation of the algorithm was that it involved complicated analysis as a result of which it has been inaccessible to most of the community. This paper gives a simple analysis of the algorithm. This analysis is based on three elementary observations about quantum search, does not require a single equation and takes less than 2 pages.

id: quant-ph/0504158
title: Multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary two-particle state with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; The revised version published
journal: Physical Review A 72, 044301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504158
abstract: A scheme for multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary two-particle state is presented with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. Any one of the $N$ agents has the access to regenerate the original state with two local unitary operations if he collaborates with the other agents, say the controllers. Moreover, each of the controllers is required to take only a product measurement $\sigma_x \otimes \sigma_x$ on his two particles, which makes this scheme more convenient for the agents in the applications on a network than others. As all the quantum source can be used to carry the useful information, the intrinsic efficiency of qubits approaches the maximal value. With a new notation for the multipartite entanglement, the sender need only publish two bits of classical information for each measurement, which reduces the information exchanged largely.

id: quant-ph/0504159
title: Spontaneous emission and teleportation in cavity QED
authors: P.P. Munhoz, J.A. Roversi, A. Vidiella-Barranco, F. L. Semiao
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, LaTeX
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) 3875-3884
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504159
abstract: In this work, we consider atomic spontaneous emission in a system consisting of two identical two-level atoms interacting dispersively with the quantized electromagnetic field in a high-Q cavity. We investigate the destructive effect of the atomic decay on the generation of maximally entangled states, following the proposal by Zheng S B and Guo G C (2000 Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 2392). In particular, we analyze the fidelity of teleportation performed using such a noisy channel and calculatethe maximum spontaneous decay rate we may have in order to realize teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0504160
title: On independent permutation separability criteria
authors: Lieven Clarisse, Pawel Wocjan
comments: Revtex4, 7 pages, minor corrections
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 6, No. 3 (2006) 277-288
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504160
abstract: Recently P. Wocjan and M. Horodecki [quant-ph/0503129] gave a characterization of combinatorially independent permutation separability criteria. Combinatorial independence is a necessary condition for permutations to yield truly independent criteria meaning that that no criterion is strictly stronger that any other. In this paper we observe that some of these criteria are still dependent and analyze why these dependencies occur. To remove them we introduce an improved necessary condition and give a complete classification of the remaining permutations. We conjecture that the remaining class of criteria only contains truly independent permutation separability criteria. Our conjecture is based on the proof that for two, three and four parties all these criteria are truly independent and on numerical verification of their independence for up to 8 parties. It was commonly believed that for three parties there were 9 independent criteria, here we prove that there are exactly 6 independent criteria for three parties and 22 for four parties.

id: quant-ph/0504161
title: Quantum protocols for anonymous voting and surveying
authors: J.A. Vaccaro, Joseph Spring, Anthony Chefles
comments: 8 pages. V2 includes the modifications made for the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012333 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504161
abstract: We describe quantum protocols for voting and surveying. A key feature of our schemes is the use of entangled states to ensure that the votes are anonymous and to allow the votes to be tallied. The entanglement is distributed over separated sites; the physical inaccessibility of any one site is sufficient to guarantee the anonymity of the votes. The security of these protocols with respect to various kinds of attack is discussed. We also discuss classical schemes and show that our quantum voting protocol represents a N-fold reduction in computational complexity, where N is the number of voters.

id: quant-ph/0504162
title: Tailoring laser pulses with spectral and fluence constraints using optimal control theory
authors: J. Werschnik, E.K.U. Gross
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S300-S312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504162
abstract: Within the framework of optimal control theory we develop a simple iterative scheme to determine optimal laser pulses with spectral and fluence constraints. The algorithm is applied to a one-dimensional asymmetric double well where the control target is to transfer a particle from the ground state, located in the left well, to the first excited state, located in the right well. Extremely high occupations of the first excited state are obtained for a variety of spectral and/or energetic constraints. Even for the extreme case where no resonance frequency is allowed in the pulse the algorithm achieves an occupation of almost 100%.

id: quant-ph/0504163
title: An introduction to entanglement measures
authors: Martin B. Plenio, S. Virmani
comments: 25 pages, 6 figs, aps format. V2 greatly enhanced
journal: Quant.Inf.Comput.7:1-51,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504163
abstract: We review the theory of entanglement measures, concentrating mostly on the finite dimensional two-party case. Topics covered include: single-copy and asymptotic entanglement manipulation; the entanglement of formation; the entanglement cost; the distillable entanglement; the relative entropic measures; the squashed entanglement; log-negativity; the robustness monotones; the greatest cross-norm; uniqueness and extremality theorems. Infinite dimensional systems and multi-party settings will be discussed briefly.

id: quant-ph/0504164
title: Effects of mismatched transmissions on two-mode squeezing and EPR correlations with a slow light medium
authors: Sulakshana Thanvanthri, Jianming Wen, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504164
abstract: We theoretically discuss the preservation of squeezing and continuous variable entanglement of two mode squeezed light when the two modes are subjected to unequal transmission. One of the modes is transmitted through a slow light medium while the other is sent through an optical fiber of unit transmission. Balanced homodyne detection is used to check the presence of squeezing. It is found that loss of squeezing occurs when the mismatch in the transmission of the two modes is greater than 40% while near ideal squeezing is preserved when the transmissions are equal. We also discuss the effect of this loss on continuous variable entanglement using strong and weak EPR criteria and possible applications for this experimental scheme.

id: quant-ph/0504165
title: Few-body spin couplings and their implications for universal quantum computation
authors: Ryan Woodworth, Ari Mizel, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 1st version: 33 pages, 25 figures. Described at APS March Meeting in 2004 (P36.010) and 2005 (B17.00009). Most figures made uglier here to reduce file size. 2nd version: 19 pages, 9 figures. Much mathematical detail chopped away after hearing from journal referee; a few typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. Cond. Mat. 18, S721 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504165
abstract: Electron spins in semiconductor quantum dots are promising candidates for the experimental realization of solid-state qubits. We analyze the dynamics of a system of three qubits arranged in a linear geometry and a system of four qubits arranged in a square geometry. Calculations are performed for several quantum dot confining potentials. In the three-qubit case, three-body effects are identified that have an important quantitative influence upon quantum computation. In the four-qubit case, the full Hamiltonian is found to include both three-body and four-body interactions that significantly influence the dynamics in physically relevant parameter regimes. We consider the implications of these results for the encoded universality paradigm applied to the four-electron qubit code; in particular, we consider what is required to circumvent the four-body effects in an encoded system (four spins per encoded qubit) by the appropriate tuning of experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0504166
title: Some Open Problems in Quantum Information Theory
authors: O. Krueger, R.F. Werner
comments: All updates will appear on this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504166
abstract: This article is a snap-shot of a web site, which has been collecting open problems in quantum information for several years, and documenting the progress made on these problems. By posting it we make the complete collection available in one printout. We also hope to draw more attention to this project, inviting every researcher in the field to raise to the challenges, but also to suggest new problems.

id: quant-ph/0504167
title: Ambiguities on the quantization of a one-dimensional dissipative system with position depending dissipative coefficient
authors: Gustavo Lopez, Xaman-Ek Lopez, Gabriel Gonzalez
comments: 8 pages, no figures, LaTeX format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504167
abstract: For a one-dimensional dissipative system with position depending coefficient, two constant of motion are deduce. These constants of motion bring about two Hamiltonians to describe the dynamics of same classical system. However, their quantization describe the dynamics of two completely different quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0504168
title: On the coexistence of position and momentum observables
authors: C. Carmeli, T. Heinonen, A. Toigo
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 5253-5266.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504168
abstract: We investigate the problem of coexistence of position and momentum observables. We characterize those pairs of position and momentum observables which have a joint observable.

id: quant-ph/0504169
title: An asymptotical separability criterion for bipartite density operators
authors: Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504169
abstract: For a given density matrix $\rho$ of a bipartite quantum system an asymptotical separability criterion is suggested. Using the continuous ensemble method, a sequence of separable density matrices is built which converges to $\rho$ if and only if $\rho$ is separable. The convergence speed is evaluated and for any given tolerance parameter $\kappa$ an iterative procedure is suggested which decides in finite number of steps if there exists a separable density matrix $\rho_\kappa$ which differs from the matrix $\rho$ by at most $\kappa$.

id: quant-ph/0504170
title: The relationship between two flavors of oblivious transfer at the quantum level
authors: Guang-Ping He, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 044304 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504170
abstract: Though all-or-nothing oblivious transfer and one-out-of-two oblivious transfer are equivalent in classical cryptography, we here show that due to the nature of quantum cryptography, a protocol built upon secure quantum all-or-nothing oblivious transfer cannot satisfy the rigorous definition of quantum one-out-of-two oblivious transfer.

id: quant-ph/0504171
title: A realistic device that simulates the non-local PR box without communication
authors: Sven Aerts
comments: 3 pages RevTex, no figures. Revised version with corrected definition in abstract and few other (very) minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504171
abstract: A black box with two input bits and two output bits is called a non-local PR box, if the XOR of the output bits equals the AND of the input bits. In a recent article, Cerf et al. show that Alice and Bob, using such a PR box, can effectively simulate entanglement without the need of communication. We show that an adaptation of a model due to Dirk Aerts, yields a realistic simulation of the non-local PR box without communication. Because the model is entirely realistic, it cannot violate relativistic constraints. Like a non-local box, it can be used to simulate the singlet state coincidence probabilities, but the time to complete the observation of the outcome will exceed the time it takes a photon to travel one arm in an EPRB setup. The model explicitly shows how to produce an outcome that is locally perfectly random, but nevertheless determines what happens in the other wing of the experiment, without communication taking place between the two wings. In this sense, it can serve as an accurate metaphor for the mechanism of entanglement. The model considerably strengthens the claim that no communication is necessary to simulate entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0504172
title: Classical Statistics Inherent in a Quantum Density Matrix
authors: A. K. Rajagopal, R. W. Rendell
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504172
abstract: A density matrix formulation of classical bipartite correlations is constructed. This leads to an understanding of the appearance of classical statistical correlations intertwined with the quantum correlations as well as a physical underpinning of these correlations. As a byproduct of this analysis, a physical basis of the classical statistical correlations leading to additive entropy in a bipartite system discussed recently by Tsallis et al emerges as inherent classical spin fluctuations. It is found that in this example, the quantum correlations shrink the region of additivity in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0504173
title: Quantum algorithms without initializing the auxiliary qubits
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong San Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, typos corrected, references added, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504173
abstract: In this Letter, we construct the quantum algorithms for the Simon problem and the period-finding problem, which do not require initializing the auxiliary qubits involved in the process of functional evaluation but are as efficient as the original algorithms. In these quantum algorithms, one can use any arbitrarily mixed state as the auxiliary qubits, and furthermore can recover the state of the auxiliary qubits to the original one after completing the computations. Since the recovered state can be employed in any other computations, we obtain that a single preparation of the auxiliary qubits in an arbitrarily mixed state is sufficient to implement the iterative procedure in the Simon algorithm or the period-finding algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0504174
title: Theory of Confined Quantum Time of Arrivals
authors: Eric A. Galapon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504174
abstract: We extend the concept of confined quantum time of arrival operators, first developed for the free particle [E.A. Galapon, R. Caballar, R. Bahague {\it Phys. Rev. Let.} {\bf 93} 180406 (2004)], to arbitrary potentials.

id: quant-ph/0504175
title: Perfect transfer of many-particle quantum state via high-dimensional systems with spectrum-matched symmetry
authors: Ying Li, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504175
abstract: The quantum state transmission (QST) through the medium of high-dimensional many-particle system is studied with a symmetry analysis. We discover that, if the spectrum matches the symmetry of a fermion or boson system in a certain fashion, a perfect quantum state transfer can be implemented without any operation on the medium. Based on this observation the well-established results for the QST via quantum spin chains can be generalized to the high-dimensional many-particle systems with pre-engineered nearest neighbor (NN) hopping constants. By investigating a simple but realistic near half-filled tight-binding fermion system with uniform NN hopping integral, we show that an arbitrary many-particle state near the fermi surface can be perfectly transferred to its translational counterpart.

id: quant-ph/0504176
title: Laser photon statistics in the feedback loop
authors: T.Yu.Golubeva, Yu.M.Golubev
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4. Submitted to Journal of Optics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504176
abstract: A mere correspondence between the electron statistics and the photon one vanishes in the feedback loop (FBL). It means that the direct photodetection, supplying us with the electron statistics, does not provide us with a wished information about the laser photon statistics. For getting this information we should think up another measurement procedure, and we in the article suggest applying the three-level laser as a auxiliary measuring device. This laser has impressive property, namely, its photon statistics survive information about the initial photon statistics of the laser which excites coherently the three-level medium. Thus, if we choose the laser in the FBL as exciting the three-level laser, then we have an possibility to evaluate its initial photon statistics by means of direct detecting the three-level laser emission. Finally, this approach allows us to conclude the feedback is not capable of creating a regularity in the laser light beam. Contrary, the final photon fluctuations turn out to be always even bigger. The mentioned above feature of the three-level laser takes place only for the strong interaction between the lasers (exciting and excited). It means the initial state of the exciting laser is changed dramatically, so our measurement procedure can not be identified with some non-demolition one.

id: quant-ph/0504177
title: How the quality of a received EPR pair depends on the distances from an EPR source?
authors: A. Bayat, V. Karimipour, I. Marvian
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, substantially revised, latex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 335 (2006) 81-86.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504177
abstract: Let an EPR source which generates maximally entangled pairs be located so that it has distances $L_1$ and $L_2$ to two users. After taking into account various effects like loss of photons, deficiencies in the source and detectors, an entangled pair traveling through the channel may loose its perfect correlation due to errors in the channel. How the entanglement of the received pair depends on the above distances and the local properties of the channels used for this transmission? What is the best location of the source if we want to achieve the highest fidelity? What is the threshold distance beyond which the entanglement of the pair vanishes and becomes useless for using in teleportation. We discuss these problems for the Pauli channel which simulates the effect of optical fibers and possibly the atmosphere on the polarization-entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0504178
title: Spectrum of the Relativistic Particles in Various Potentials
authors: Ramazan Koc, Mehmet Koca
comments: 
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 20, No. 12 (2005) pp. 911-921
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504178
abstract: We extend the notion of Dirac oscillator in two dimensions, to construct a set of potentials. These potentials becomes exactly and quasi-exactly solvable potentials of non-relativistic quantum mechanics when they are transformed into a Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation. For the exactly solvable potentials, eigenvalues are calculated and eigenfunctions are given by confluent hypergeometric functions. It is shown that, our formulation also leads to the study of those potentials in the framework of the supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0504179
title: Entanglement in Quantum Spin Chains, Symmetry Classes of Random Matrices, and Conformal Field Theory
authors: J.P. Keating, F. Mezzadri
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 94 (2005) 050501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504179
abstract: We compute the entropy of entanglement between the first $N$ spins and the rest of the system in the ground states of a general class of quantum spin-chains. We show that under certain conditions the entropy can be expressed in terms of averages over ensembles of random matrices. These averages can be evaluated, allowing us to prove that at critical points the entropy grows like $\kappa\log_2 N + {\tilde \kappa}$ as $N\to\infty$, where $\kappa$ and ${\tilde \kappa}$ are determined explicitly. In an important class of systems, $\kappa$ is equal to one-third of the central charge of an associated Virasoro algebra. Our expression for $\kappa$ therefore provides an explicit formula for the central charge.

id: quant-ph/0504180
title: On the quantum (in)stability in cavity QED
authors: S.V. Prants, M.Yu. Uleysky
comments: 
journal: S.V. Prants and M.Yu. Uleysky. Quantum stability in cavity QED. JETP Letters. V.82 N12 748-752 (2005) [Pis'ma ZETP. V.82. Is.12 (2005) 846-851].
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504180
abstract: The stability and instability of quantum motion is studied in the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). It is shown that the Jaynes-Cummings dynamics can be unstable in the regime of chaotic walking of an atom in the quantized field of a standing wave in the absence of any other interaction with environment. This quantum instability manifests itself in strong variations of quantum purity and entropy and in exponential sensitivity of fidelity of quantum states to small variations in the atom-field detuning. It is quantified in terms of the respective classical maximal Lyapunov exponent that can be estimated in appropriate in-out experiments.

id: quant-ph/0504181
title: Analytical Approach to Wave Packet Dynamics of Laser-Driven Particles beyond the Dipole Approximation
authors: M. Verschl, C.H. Keitel
comments: 13 pages 2 figures
journal: Laser Physics, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2005, pp. 529-535
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504181
abstract: An analytical approach to quantum mechanical wave packet dynamics of laser-driven particles is presented. The time-dependent Schroedinger equation is solved for an electron exposed to a linearly polarized plane wave of arbitrary shape. The calculation goes beyond the dipole approximation, such that magnetic field effects like wave packet shearing are included. Analytical expressions for the time-dependent widths of the wave packet and its orientation are established. These allow for a simple understanding of the wave packet dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0504182
title: Quantum Message Exchange Based on Entanglement and Bell-State Measurements
authors: Sung Soon Jang, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: To be published in Physics Letters A; supersedes quant-ph/0407138. This version includes a fair amount of new material, including a section discussing the case of no shared reference frames
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504182
abstract: We propose a scheme by which two parties can secretely and simultaneously exchange messages. The scheme requires the two parties to share entanglement and both to perform Bell-state measurements. Only two out of the four Bell states are required to be distinguished in the Bell-state measurements, and thus the scheme is experimentally feasible using only linear optical means. Generalizations of the scheme to high-dimensional systems and to multipartite entanglement are considered. We show also that the proposed scheme works even if the two parties do not possess shared reference frames.

id: quant-ph/0504183
title: Deterministic Bell State Discrimination
authors: Manu Gupta, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504183
abstract: We make use of local operations with two ancilla bits to deterministically distinguish all the four Bell states, without affecting the quantum channel containing these Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0504184
title: Dissipative dynamics of nondegenerate two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: E.K. Bashkirov, M.S. Rusakova
comments: 13 pages, 16 pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504184
abstract: A nondegenerate two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model is investigated where the leakage of photon through the cavity is taken into account. The effect of cavity damping on the mean photon number, atomic populations, field statistics and both field and atomic squeezing is considered on the basis of master equation in dressed-state approximation for initial coherent fields and excited atom.

id: quant-ph/0504185
title: Times of arrival: Bohm beats Kijowski
authors: M Ruggenthaler, G Gruebl, S Kreidl
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504185
abstract: We prove that the Bohmian arrival time of the 1D Schroedinger evolution violates the quadratic form structure on which Kijowski's axiomatic treatment of arrival times is based. Within Kijowski's framework, for a free right moving wave packet, the various notions of arrival time (at a fixed point x on the real line) all yield the same average arrival time. We derive an inequality relating the average Bohmian arrival time to the one of Kijowksi. We prove that the average Bohmian arrival time is less than Kijowski's one if and only if the wave packet leads to position probability backflow through x. Otherwise the two average arrival times coincide.

id: quant-ph/0504186
title: Macroscopic thermal entanglement due to radiation pressure
authors: A. Ferreira, A. Guerreiro, V. Vedral
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 (2006) 060407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504186
abstract: Can entanglement and the quantum behavior in physical systems survive at arbitrary high temperatures? In this Letter we show that this is the case for a electromagnetic field mode in an optical cavity with a movable mirror in a thermal state. We also identify two different dynamical regimes of generation of entanglement separated by a critical coupling strength.

id: quant-ph/0504187
title: Note on "Hyperfine coherence in the presence of spontaneous photon scattering" (quant-ph/0502063) and minimum energy requirements for quantum logic
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504187
abstract: The goal of this short note is to show that the formulas I derived originally in [Phys. Rev. A 65, 022308 (2002)] regarding the errors introduced in quantum logical operations by the quantum nature of the control fields apply even in the situation discussed recently by Ozeri et al. in quant-ph/0502063, where the decoherence-inducing spontaneous Raman scattering is considerably suppressed.

id: quant-ph/0504188
title: A n-qubit controlled phase gate with superconducting quantum interference devices coupled to a resonator
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Siyuan Han
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, RevTeX, Resubmitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 72, 032311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504188
abstract: We present a way to realize a $n$-qubit controlled phase gate with superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) by coupling them to a superconducting resonator. In this proposal, the two logical states of a qubit are represented by the two lowest levels of a SQUID. An intermediate level of each SQUID is utilized to facilitate coherent control and manipulation of quantum states of the qubits. It is interesting to note that a $n$-qubit controlled phase gate can be achieved with $n$ SQUIDs by successively applying a $\pi /2$ Jaynes-Cummings pulse to each of the $n-1$ control SQUIDs before and after a $\pi$ Jaynes-Cummings pulse on the target SQUID.

id: quant-ph/0504189
title: Operator quantum error correction
authors: David W. Kribs, Raymond Laflamme, David Poulin, Maia Lesosky
comments: 21 pages, to appear in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. & Comp., 6 (2006), 383-399.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504189
abstract: This paper is an expanded and more detailed version of our recent work in which the Operator Quantum Error Correction formalism was introduced. This is a new scheme for the error correction of quantum operations that incorporates the known techniques - i.e. the standard error correction model, the method of decoherence-free subspaces, and the noiseless subsystem method - as special cases, and relies on a generalized mathematical framework for noiseless subsystems that applies to arbitrary quantum operations. We also discuss a number of examples and introduce the notion of ``unitarily noiseless subsystems''.

id: quant-ph/0504190
title: Nonlocality without inequality for spin-s system
authors: Samir Kunkri, Sujit K. Choudhary
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504190
abstract: We analyze Hardy's non-locality argument for two spin-s systems and show that earlier solution in this regard was restricted due to imposition of some conditions which have no role in the argument of non-locality. We provide a compact form of non-locality condition for two spin-s systems and extend it to n number of spin-s particles. We also apply more general kind of non-locality argument still without inequality, to higher spin system.

id: quant-ph/0504191
title: Two theorems of Jhon Bell and Communication Complexity
authors: Guruprasad Kar
comments: 11 pages, Invited lecture at the workshop on Quantum Information,computation and Communication (QICC-2005), IIT Kharagpur,India,February 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504191
abstract: John Bell taught us that quantum mechanics can not be reproduced by non-contextual and local Hidden variable theory. The impossibility of replacing quantum mechanics by non-contextual Hidden Variable Theory can be turned to a impossible coloring pseudo-telepathy game to be played by two distant players. The game can not be won without communication in the classical world. But if the players share entangled state (quantum correlation) the game can be won deterministically using no communication. This again shows that though quantum correlation can not be used for communication, two parties can not simulate quantum correlation without classical communication. The motivation of the article is to present the earlier works on Hidden Variable Theory and recently developed pseudo-telepathy problem in a simpler way, which may be helpful for the beginners in this area.

id: quant-ph/0504192
title: An Entangled Web of Crime: Bell's Theorem as a Short Story
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Howard Wiseman
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure, revtex4, to appear in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys 73, 932-937 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504192
abstract: Non-locality of the type first elucidated by Bell in 1964 is a difficult concept to explain to non-specialists and undergraduates. Here we attempt this by showing how such non-locality can be used to solve a problem in which someone might find themselves as the result of a collection of normal, even if somewhat unlikely, events. Our story is told in the style of a Sherlock Holmes mystery, and is based on Mermin's formulation of the "paradoxical" illustration of quantum non-locality discovered by Greenberger, Horne and Zeilinger.

id: quant-ph/0504193
title: On the Interpretation of the 'Extra' Variables in the Hurwitz Transformation
authors: Le Van Hoang, Nguyen Thanh Son
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504193
abstract: The Hurwits transformation is generalized by introducing three new variables called 'extra'. Interpretation of these extra variables allows us to establish relation between isotropic harmonic oscillator and five-dimensional hydrogen-like atom in 'electromagnetic' fields of various configurations. For the Schrodinger equations, the scheme of separation of extra variables is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0504194
title: The Sturm-Liouville eigenvalue problem and NP-complete problems in the quantum setting with queries
authors: A. Papageorgiou, H. Wozniakowski
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504194
abstract: We show how a number of NP-complete as well as NP-hard problems can be reduced to the Sturm-Liouville eigenvalue problem in the quantum setting with queries. We consider power queries which are derived from the propagator of a system evolving with a Hamiltonian obtained from the discretization of the Sturm-Liouville operator. We show that the number of power queries as well the number of qubits needed to solve the problems studied in this paper is a low degree polynomial. The implementation of power queries by a polynomial number of elementary quantum gates is an open issue. If this problem is solved positively for the power queries used for the Sturm-Liouville eigenvalue problem then a quantum computer would be a very powerful computation device allowing us to solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time.

id: quant-ph/0504195
title: Inverting quantum decoherence by classical feedback from the environment
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090501 (2005). Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504195
abstract: We show that for qubits and qutrits it is always possible to perfectly recover quantum coherence by performing a measurement only on the environment, whereas for dimension d>3 there are situations where recovery is impossible, even with complete access to the environment. For qubits, the minimal amount of classical information to be extracted from the environment equals the entropy exchange.

id: quant-ph/0504196
title: Limit quantum efficiency for violation of Clauser-Horne Inequality for qutrits
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: Phys. Rev. A in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005) 052314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504196
abstract: In this paper we present the results of numerical calculations about the minimal value of detection efficiency for violating the Clauser - Horne inequality for qutrits. Our results show how the use of non-maximally entangled states largely improves this limit respect to maximally entangled ones. A stronger resistance to noise is also found.

id: quant-ph/0504197
title: Error Correcting the Control Unit in Global Control Schemes
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504197
abstract: Recent studies of globally controlled structures have culminated in a theoretical demonstration that fault-tolerant quantum computation can be carried out on a one--dimensional chain with control over two global fields only. This required some patterns of classical states to localise operations, which were stabilised with the Zeno effect. However, it is impossible to achieve perfect stabilisation using this method, so error correction of these states is desirable, and is the focus this paper.

id: quant-ph/0504198
title: Quantum vs. Classical Read-once Branching Programs
authors: Martin Sauerhoff
comments: 35 pages. Lower bound for disjointness: Error in application of info theory corrected and regularity of quantum read-once BPs (each variable at least once) added as additional assumption of the theorem. Some more informal explanations added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504198
abstract: The paper presents the first nontrivial upper and lower bounds for (non-oblivious) quantum read-once branching programs. It is shown that the computational power of quantum and classical read-once branching programs is incomparable in the following sense: (i) A simple, explicit boolean function on 2n input bits is presented that is computable by error-free quantum read-once branching programs of size O(n^3), while each classical randomized read-once branching program and each quantum OBDD for this function with bounded two-sided error requires size 2^{\Omega(n)}. (ii) Quantum branching programs reading each input variable exactly once are shown to require size 2^{\Omega(n)} for computing the set-disjointness function DISJ_n from communication complexity theory with two-sided error bounded by a constant smaller than 1/2-2\sqrt{3}/7. This function is trivially computable even by deterministic OBDDs of linear size. The technically most involved part is the proof of the lower bound in (ii). For this, a new model of quantum multi-partition communication protocols is introduced and a suitable extension of the information cost technique of Jain, Radhakrishnan, and Sen (2003) to this model is presented.

id: quant-ph/0504199
title: Quantum measurement act as a "speech act"
authors: Jean Schneider
comments: submitted to "Endophysics, Time, Quantum and the Subjective,", R. Buccheri, A.C. Elitzur and M. Saniga (eds.), World Scientific
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504199
abstract: I show that the quantum measurement problem can be understood if the measurement is seen as a ``speech act'' in the sense of modern language theory. The reduction of the state vector is in this perspective an intersubjectice -- or better a-subjective -- symbolic process. I then give some perspectives on applications to the ``Mind-Body problem''.

id: quant-ph/0504200
title: Quantum Behavior of Deterministic Systems with Information Loss. Path Integral Approach
authors: M. Blasone, P. Jizba, H. Kleinert
comments: 11 pages, RevTeX, revised version with minor changes, accepted to Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys. 320 (2005) 468-486
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504200
abstract: 't Hooft's derivation of quantum from classical physics is analyzed by means of the classical path integral of Gozzi et al.. It is shown how the key element of this procedure - the loss of information constraint - can be implemented by means of Faddeev-Jackiw's treatment of constrained systems. It is argued that the emergent quantum systems are identical with systems obtained in [Phys.Rev. A 71 (2005) 052507] through Dirac-Bergmann's analysis. We illustrate our approach with two simple examples - free particle and linear harmonic oscillator. Potential Liouville anomalies are shown to be absent.

id: quant-ph/0504201
title: A universal programmable quantum state discriminator that is optimal for unambiguously distinguishing between unknown states
authors: Janos Bergou, Mark Hillery
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters 94, 160501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504201
abstract: We construct a device that can unambiguously discriminate between two unknown quantum states. The unknown states are provided as inputs, or programs, for the program registers and a third system, which is guaranteed to be prepared in one of the states stored in the program registers, is fed into the data register of the device. The device will then, with some probability of success, tell us whether the unknown state in the data register matches the state stored in the first or the second program register. We show that the optimal device, i. e. the one that maximizes the probability of success, is universal. It does not depend on the actual unknown states that we wish to discriminate.

id: quant-ph/0504202
title: Optimal Control of Coupled Josephson Qubits
authors: A.K. Spoerl, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, S.J. Glaser, V. Bergholm, M.J. Storcz, J. Ferber, F.K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75 (2007) 012302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504202
abstract: Quantum optimal control theory is applied to two and three coupled Josephson charge qubits. It is shown that by using shaped pulses a CNOT gate can be obtained with a trace fidelity > 0.99999 for the two qubits, and even when including higher charge states, the leakage is below 1%. Yet, the required time is only a fifth of the pioneering experiment [T. Yamamoto et al., Nature 425 (2003), 941] for otherwise identical parameters. The controls have palindromic smooth time courses representable by superpositions of a few harmonics. We outline schemes to generate these shaped pulses such as simple network synthesis. The approach is easy to generalise to larger systems as shown by a fast realisation of TOFFOLI's gate in three linearly coupled charge qubits. Thus it is to be anticipated that this method will find wide application in coherent quantum control of systems with finite degrees of freedom whose dynamics are Lie-algebraically closed.

id: quant-ph/0504203
title: A study of LOCC-detection of a maximally entangled state using hypothesis testing
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Yoshiyuki Tsuda
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14427-14446.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504203
abstract: We study how well answer to the question ``Is the given quantum state equal to a certain maximally entangled state?'' using LOCC, in the context of hypothesis testing. Under several locality and invariance conditions, optimal tests will be derived for several special cases by using basic theory of group representations. Some optimal tests are realized by performing quantum teleportation and checking whether the state is teleported. We will also give a finite process for realizing some optimal tests. The performance of the tests will be numerically compared.

id: quant-ph/0504204
title: Separability and Entanglement-Breaking in Infinite Dimensions
authors: A. S. Holevo, M. E. Shirokov, R. F. Werner
comments: 12 pages
journal: Russian Math. Surveys, vol. 60, N2,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504204
abstract: In this paper we give a general integral representation for separable states in the tensor product of infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces and provide the first example of separable states that are not countably decomposable. We also prove the structure theorem for the quantum communication channels that are entanglement-breaking, generalizing the finite-dimensional result of M. Horodecki, Ruskai and Shor. In the finite dimensional case such channels can be characterized as having the Kraus representation with operators of rank 1. The above example implies existence of infinite-dimensional entanglement-breaking channels having no such representation.

id: quant-ph/0504205
title: Holonomic Quantum Computation
authors: Angelo C.M. Carollo, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504205
abstract: In this brief review we describe the idea of holonomic quantum computation. The idea of geometric phase and holonomy is introduced in a general way and we provide few examples that should help the reader understand the issues involved.

id: quant-ph/0504206
title: Long distance tunneling
authors: Boris Ivlev
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504206
abstract: Quantum tunneling between two potential wells in a magnetic field can be strongly increased when the potential barrier varies in the direction perpendicular to the line connecting the two wells and remains constant along this line. A periodic structure of the wave function is formed in the direction joining the wells. The resulting motion can be coherent like motion in a conventional narrow band periodic structure. A particle penetrates the barrier over a long distance which strongly contrasts to WKB-like tunneling. The whole problem is stationary. The coherent process can be influenced by dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0504207
title: Applications of quantum message sealing
authors: G Gordon Worley III
comments: Presented as SPIE paper 5815-25 at Quantum Information and Computation III, part of the SPIE Defense & Security Symposium 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504207
abstract: In 2003, Bechmann-Pasquinucci introduced the concept of quantum seals, a quantum analogue to wax seals used to close letters and envelopes. Since then, some improvements on the method have been found. We first review the current quantum sealing techniques, then introduce and discuss potential applications of quantum message sealing, and conclude with some discussion of the limitations of quantum seals.

id: quant-ph/0504208
title: GHZ extraction yield for multipartite stabilizer states
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David Fattal, Daniel Gottesman
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47 062106 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504208
abstract: Let $|\Psi>$ be an arbitrary stabilizer state distributed between three remote parties, such that each party holds several qubits. Let $S$ be a stabilizer group of $|\Psi>$. We show that $|\Psi>$ can be converted by local unitaries into a collection of singlets, GHZ states, and local one-qubit states. The numbers of singlets and GHZs are determined by dimensions of certain subgroups of $S$. For an arbitrary number of parties $m$ we find a formula for the maximal number of $m$-partite GHZ states that can be extracted from $|\Psi>$ by local unitaries. A connection with earlier introduced measures of multipartite correlations is made. An example of an undecomposable four-party stabilizer state with more than one qubit per party is given. These results are derived from a general theoretical framework that allows one to study interconversion of multipartite stabilizer states by local Clifford group operators. As a simple application, we study three-party entanglement in two-dimensional lattice models that can be exactly solved by the stabilizer formalism.

id: quant-ph/0504209
title: Phase randomization improves the security of quantum key distribution
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, John Preskill
comments: 5 pages, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504209
abstract: Ideal quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols call for a source that emits single photon signals, but the sources used in typical practical realizations emit weak coherent states instead. A weak coherent state may contain more than one photon, which poses a potential security risk. QKD with weak coherent state signals has nevertheless been proven to be secure, but only under the assumption that the phase of each signal is random (and completely unknown to the adversary). Since this assumption need not be fully justified in practice, it is important to know whether phase randomization is really a requirement for security rather than a convenient technical assumption that makes the security proof easier. Here, we exhibit an explicit attack in which the eavesdropper exploits knowledge of the phase of the signals, and show that this attack allows the eavesdropper to learn every key bit in a parameter regime where a protocol using phase-randomized signals is provably secure. Thus we demonstrate that phase randomization really does enhance the security of QKD using weak coherent states. This result highlights the importance of a careful characterization of the source for proofs of the security of quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0504210
title: Wigner function for discrete phase space: exorcising ghost images
authors: Arturo Arg¨¹elles, Thomas Dittrich
comments: 6 pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504210
abstract: We construct, using simple geometrical arguments, a Wigner function defined on a discrete phase space of arbitrary integer Hilbert-space dimension that is free of redundancies. ``Ghost images'' plaguing other Wigner functions for discrete phase spaces are thus revealed as artifacts. It allows to devise a corresponding phase-space propagator in an unambiguous manner. We apply our definitions to eigenstates and propagator of the quantum baker map. Scars on unstable periodic points of the corresponding classical map become visible with unprecedented resolution.

id: quant-ph/0504211
title: Decoherence models and their effects on quantum maps and algorithms
authors: Mario Leandro Aolita, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 14 pages and 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504211
abstract: In this work we study several models of decoherence and how different quantum maps and algorithms react when perturbed by them. Following closely Ref. [1], generalizations of the three paradigmatic one single qubit quantum channels (these are the depolarizing channel, the phase damping channel and the amplitude damping channel) for the case of an arbitrarily-sized finite-dimensional Hilbert space are presented, as well as other types of noise in phase space. More specifically, Grover's search algorithm's response to decoherence is analyzed; together with those of a family of quantum versions of chaotic and regular classical maps (the baker's map and the cat maps). A relationship between how sensitive to decoherence a quantum map is and the degree of complexity in the dynamics of its associated classical counterpart is observed; resulting in a clear tendency to react the more decoherently the more complex the associated classical dynamics is.

id: quant-ph/0504212
title: Experimental reversion of the optimal quantum cloning and flipping processes
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Veronica Secondi, Francesco De Martini
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 040303 (R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504212
abstract: The quantum cloner machine maps an unknown arbitrary input qubit into two optimal clones and one optimal flipped qubit. By combining linear and non-linear optical methods we experimentally implement a scheme that, after the cloning transformation, restores the original input qubit in one of the output channels, by using local measurements, classical communication and feedforward. This significant teleportation-like method demonstrates how the information is preserved during the cloning process. The realization of the reversion process is expected to find useful applications in the field of modern multi-partite quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0504213
title: A method for teleporting an unknown quantum state and its application
authors: Feng-Li Yan, Hai-Rui Huo
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 47 (2007) 629.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504213
abstract: We suggest a method for teleporting an unknown quantum state. In this method the sender Alice first uses a Controlled-Not operation on the particle in the unknown quantum state and an ancillary particle which she wants to send to the receiver Bob. Then she sends ancillary particle to Bob. When Alice is informed by Bob that the ancillary particle is received, she performs a local measurement on the particle and sends Bob the outcome of the local measurement via a classical channel. Depending on the outcome Bob can restore the unknown quantum state, which Alice destroyed, on the ancillary particle successfully. As an application of this method we propose a quantum secure direct communication protocol.

id: quant-ph/0504214
title: Book Review: "Quantum Theory as an Emergent Phenomenon", by Stephen L. Adler
authors: A. Bassi
comments: 3 pages, LaTeX
journal: SIAM Review 47 (2005) 806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504214
abstract: This is a book review of the book: "Quantum Theory as an Emergent Phenomenon", by Stephen L. Adler (Cambridge University Press - 2004)

id: quant-ph/0504215
title: Universal Quantum Computation with Shutter Logic
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures. Section 5 replaces quant-ph/0512020
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 6, No. 6 (2006) pp. 495-515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504215
abstract: We show that universal quantum logic can be achieved using only linear optics and a quantum shutter device. With these elements, we design a quantum memory for any number of qubits and a CNOT gate which are the basis of a universal quantum computer. An interaction-free model for a quantum shutter is given.

id: quant-ph/0504216
title: Local Cloning of Arbitrarily Entangled Multipartite States
authors: Alastair Kay, Marie Ericsson
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012343 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504216
abstract: We examine the perfect cloning of non-local, orthogonal states with only local operations and classical communication. We provide a complete characterisation of the states that can be cloned under these restrictions, and their relation to distinguishability. We also consider the case of catalytic cloning, which we show provides no enhancement to the set of clonable states.

id: quant-ph/0504217
title: Recursive proof of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem in any dimension $n>3$
authors: Adan Cabello, Jose M. Estebaranz, Guillermo Garcia-Alcaine
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 339 (2005) 425
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504217
abstract: We present a method to obtain sets of vectors proving the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem in dimension $n$ from a similar set in dimension $d$ ($3\leq d<n\leq 2d$). As an application of the method we find the smallest proofs known in dimension five (29 vectors), six (31) and seven (34), and different sets matching the current record (36) in dimension eight.

id: quant-ph/0504218
title: Quantum accuracy threshold for concatenated distance-3 codes
authors: Panos Aliferis, Daniel Gottesman, John Preskill
comments: 58 pages, 15 figures, uses qic.sty. (v2): New proof of the main lemma; generalized analysis of local non-Markovian noise. (v3): minor revisions
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 6 (2006) 97-165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504218
abstract: We prove a new version of the quantum threshold theorem that applies to concatenation of a quantum code that corrects only one error, and we use this theorem to derive a rigorous lower bound on the quantum accuracy threshold epsilon_0. Our proof also applies to concatenation of higher-distance codes, and to noise models that allow faults to be correlated in space and in time. The proof uses new criteria for assessing the accuracy of fault-tolerant circuits, which are particularly conducive to the inductive analysis of recursive simulations. Our lower bound on the threshold, epsilon_0 > 2.73 \times 10^{-5} for an adversarial independent stochastic noise model, is derived from a computer-assisted combinatorial analysis; it is the best lower bound that has been rigorously proven so far.

id: quant-ph/0504219
title: Atom optics kicked rotor: experimental evidence for a pendulum description of the quantum resonance
authors: S. Wayper, M. Sadgrove, W. Simpson, M.D. Hoogerland
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504219
abstract: We present measurements of the mean energy for an atom optics kicked rotor ensemble close to quantum resonance. Oscillations in the mean energy in this regime are are shown to be in agreement with a quasi--classical pendulum approximation. The period of the oscillations is shown to scale with a single variable, which depends on the number of kicks.

id: quant-ph/0504220
title: Network for transfer of an arbitrary $n$-qubit atomic state via cavity QED
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: This is a rough manuscript. Any suggestion, criticism and help are welcome. Collaboration is desired
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504220
abstract: I show a scheme which allows a perfect transfer of an unknown single-qubit atomic state from one atom to another by letting two atoms interact simultaneously with a cavity QED. During the interaction between atom and cavity, the cavity is only virtually excited and accordingly the scheme is insensitive to the cavity field states and cavity decay. Based on this scheme, a network for transfer of an arbitrary single-qubit atomic state between atoms is engineered. Then the scheme is generalized to perfectly transfer an arbitrary 2-qubit atomic state and accordingly a network for transfer of an arbitrary 2-qubit atomic state is designed. At last, it is proven that the schemes can be generalized to an arbitrary $n(n\ge 3)$-qubit atomic state transfer case and a corresponding network is also proposed.

id: quant-ph/0504221
title: Optimal Experimental Scheme for Bennett-Brassard 1984 Quantum Key Distribution Protocol with Weak Coherent Sources, Noisy and Lossy Channel
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: RevTex, 2figures, submitted for publication on 30 March 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504221
abstract: It is the first scheme which allows the detection apparatus to achieve both the photon number of arriving signals and quantum bit error rate of the multiphoton pulses precisely. We show that the upper bound of the fraction of the tagged multiphoton pulses counts is $\mu $, which is independent of the channel loss and the intensity of the decoy source. Such upper bound is $inherent$ and cannot be reduced any longer as long as the weak coherent scouces and high lossy channel are used. We show that our scheme can be implemented even if the channel loss is very high. A stronger intensity of the pulse source is allowable to improve the rate of quantum key distribution. Both the signal pulses and decoy pulses can be used to generate the raw key after verified the security of the communication. We analyze that our scheme is optimal under today's technology. PACS: 03.67.Dd

id: quant-ph/0504222
title: Concurrence classes for an arbitrary multi-qubit state based on positive operator valued measure
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 11007-11017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504222
abstract: In this paper, we propose concurrence classes for an arbitrary multi-qubit state based on orthogonal complement of a positive operator valued measure, or POVM in short, on quantum phase. In particular, we construct concurrence for an arbitrary two-qubit state and concurrence classes for the three- and four-qubit states. And finally, we construct $W^{m}$ and $GHZ^{m}$ class concurrences for multi-qubit states. The unique structure of our POVM enables us to distinguish different concurrence classes for multi-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0504223
title: Perspectives for a mixed two-qubit system with binomial quantum states
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: J Opt B Quantum Semiclass Opt 6, 201 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504223
abstract: The problem of the relationship between entanglement and two-qubit systems in which it is embedded is central to the quantum information theory. This paper suggests that the concurrence hierarchy as an entanglement measure provides an alternative view of how to think about this problem. We consider mixed states of two qubits and obtain an exact solution of the time-dependent master equation that describes the evolution of two two-level qubits (or atoms) within a perfect cavity for the case of multiphoton transition. We consider the situation for which the field may start from a binomial state. Employing this solution, the significant features of the entanglement when a second qubit is weakly coupled to the field and becomes entangled with the first qubit, is investigated. We also describe the response of the atomic system as it varies between the Rabi oscillations and the collapse-revival mode and investigate the atomic inversion and the Q-function. We identify and numerically demonstrate the region of parameters where significantly large entanglement can be obtained. Most interestingly, it is shown that features of the entanglement is influenced significantly when the multi-photon process is involved. Finally, we obtain illustrative examples of some novel aspects of this system and show how the off-resonant case can sensitize entanglement to the role of initial state setting.

id: quant-ph/0504224
title: From quantum graphs to quantum random walks
authors: Gregor Tanner
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504224
abstract: We give a short overview over recent developments on quantum graphs and outline the connection between general quantum graphs and so-called quantum random walks.

id: quant-ph/0504225
title: Comment on "Detuning effects in the one-photon mazer"
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys Rev A 70 047801 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504225
abstract: In a recent work, Bastin and Martin (B-M) [Phys. Rev. A 67, 053804 (2003)] have analyzed the quantum theory of the mazer in the off-resonant case. However, our analysis of this case refutes their claim by showing that their evaluation of the coupled equations for the off-resonant case is not satisfactory. The correct expression can be obtained by applying an appropriate formulae for the involved dressed-state parameters.

id: quant-ph/0504226
title: Distance-based degrees of polarization for a quantum field
authors: A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, E. C. Yustas, J. Soderholm, G. Bjork
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 033813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504226
abstract: It is well established that unpolarized light is invariant with respect to any SU(2) polarization transformation. This requirement fully characterizes the set of density matrices representing unpolarized states. We introduce the degree of polarization of a quantum state as its distance to the set of unpolarized states. We use two different candidates of distance, namely the Hilbert-Schmidt and the Bures metric, showing that they induce fundamentally different degrees of polarization. We apply these notions to relevant field states and we demonstrate that they avoid some of the problems arising with the classical definition.

id: quant-ph/0504227
title: Quantum control of entanglement and information of two solid state qubits: remote control of dephasing
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504227
abstract: We investigate the scheme for controlling information characterized by Von-Neumann entropy and the stationary state entanglement characterized by concurrence of two solid state qubits in the collective dephasing channel. It is shown that the local maximal value of the stationary state concurrence always corresponds to the local minimal value of information. We also propose a scheme for remotely controlling the entanglement of two solid state qubits against the collective dephasing. This idea may open a door to remotely suppress the detrimental effects of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0504228
title: Stationary state entanglement and total correlation of two qubits or qutrits
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTex4
journal: MODERN PHYSICS LETTERS B 19, 1803 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504228
abstract: We investigate the mutual information and entanglement of stationary state of two locally driven qubits under the influence of collective dephasing. It is shown that both the mutual information and the entanglement of two qubits in the stationary state exhibit damped oscillation with the scaled action time $\gamma{T}$ of the local external driving field. It means that we can control both the entanglement and total correlation of the stationary state of two qubits by adjusting the action time of the driving field. We also consider the influence of collective dephasing on entanglement of two qutrits and obtain the sufficient condition that the stationary state is entangled.

id: quant-ph/0504229
title: On the truncation of the harmonic oscillator wavepacket
authors: L Rebollo-Neira, S Jain
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 L293-L299 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504229
abstract: We present an interesting result regarding the implication of truncating the wavepacket of the harmonic oscillator. We show that disregarding the non-significant tails of a function which is the superposition of eigenfunctions of the harmonic oscillator has a remarkable consequence: namely, there exist infinitely many different superpositions giving rise to the same function on the interval. Uniqueness, in the case of a wavepacket, is restored by a postulate of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0504230
title: Intermediate quantum maps for quantum computation
authors: O. Giraud, B. Georgeot
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, research done at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042312 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0504230
abstract: We study quantum maps displaying spectral statistics intermediate between Poisson and Wigner-Dyson. It is shown that they can be simulated on a quantum computer with a small number of gates, and efficiently yield information about fidelity decay or spectral statistics. We study their matrix elements and entanglement production, and show that they converge with time to distributions which differ from random matrix predictions. A randomized version of these maps can be implemented even more economically, and yields pseudorandom operators with original properties, enabling for example to produce fractal random vectors. These algorithms are within reach of present-day quantum computers.

id: astro-ph/0504364
title: Discrete Quantum Spectrum of Observable Correlations from Inflation
authors: Craig J. Hogan
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0504364
abstract: The decoherence of quantum fluctuations into classical perturbations during inflation is discussed. A simple quantum mechanical argument, using a spatial particle wavefunction rather than a field description, shows that observable correlations from inflation must have a discrete spectrum, since they originate and freeze into the metric within a compact region. The number of discrete modes is estimated using a holographic bound on the number of degrees of freedom. The discreteness may be detectable in some models; for example, if there is a fundamental universal frequency spectrum, the inflationary gravitational wave background may be resolvable into discrete emission lines.

id: cond-mat/0504012
title: Coherent Population Trapping of Electron Spins in a Semiconductor
authors: Kai-Mei C. Fu, Charles Santori, Colin Stanley, M.C. Holland, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures replaced 6/25/2007 with PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 187405 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504012
abstract: In high-purity n-type GaAs under strong magnetic field, we are able to isolate a lambda system composed of two Zeeman states of neutral-donor bound electrons and the lowest Zeeman state of bound excitons. When the two-photon detuning of this system is zero, we observe a pronounced dip in the excited-state photoluminescence indicating the creation of the coherent population-trapped state. Our data are consistent with a steady-state three-level density-matrix model. The observation of coherent population trapping in GaAs indicates that this and similar semiconductor systems could be used for various EIT-type experiments.

id: cond-mat/0504015
title: Decoherence Driven Quantum Transport
authors: Sang Wook Kim, Mahn-Soo Choi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504015
abstract: We propose a new mechanism to generate a dc current of particles at zero bias based on a noble interplay between coherence and decoherence. We show that a dc current arises if the transport process in one direction is maintained coherent while the process in the opposite direction is incoherent. We provide possible implementations of the idea using an atomic Michelson and an atomic Aharonov-Bohm interferometer.

id: cond-mat/0504026
title: Dissipative quantum dynamics of bosonic atoms in a shallow 1D optical lattice
authors: J. Ruostekoski, L. Isella
comments: to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 (2005) 110403
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504026
abstract: We theoretically study the dipolar motion of bosonic atoms in a very shallow, strongly confined 1D optical lattice using the parameters of the recent experiment [Fertig et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220402 (2005)]. We find that, due to momentum uncertainty, a small, but non-negligible, atom population occupies the unstable velocity region of the corresponding classical dynamics, resulting in the observed dissipative atom transport. This population is generated even in a static vapor, due to quantum fluctuations which are enhanced by the lattice and the confinement, and is not notably affected by the motion of atoms or finite temperature.

id: cond-mat/0504085
title: Manifestation of fundamental quantum complementarities in time-domain interference experiments with quantum dots: A theoretical analysis
authors: P. Machnikowski
comments: Final, considerably extended version; 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 205332 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504085
abstract: A theoretical analysis is presented showing that fundamental complementarity between the particle-like properties of an exciton confined in a semiconductor quantum dot and the ability of the same system to show interference may be studied in a time domain interference experiment, similar to those currently performed. The feasibility of such an experiment, including required pulse parameters and the dephasing effect of the environment, is studied.

id: cond-mat/0504149
title: Ohmic and step noise from a single trapping center hybridized with a Fermi sea
authors: Rogerio de Sousa, K. Birgitta Whaley, Frank K. Wilhelm, Jan von Delft
comments: Revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 247006 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504149
abstract: We show that single electron tunneling devices such as the Cooper-pair box or double quantum dot can be sensitive to the zero-point fluctuation of a single trapping center hybridized with a Fermi sea. If the trap energy level is close to the Fermi sea and has line-width \gamma > k_B T, its noise spectrum has an Ohmic Johnson-Nyquist form, whereas for \gamma < k_B T the noise has a Lorentzian form expected from the semiclassical limit. Trap levels above the Fermi level are shown to lead to steps in the noise spectrum that can be used to probe their energetics, allowing the identification of individual trapping centers coupled to the device.

id: cond-mat/0504181
title: Fourier's Law in a Quantum Spin Chain and the Onset of Quantum Chaos
authors: Carlos Mejia-Monasterio, Tomaz Prosen, Giulio Casati
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX
journal: Europhys. Lett. 72 (4), (2005) 520-526
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504181
abstract: We study heat transport in a nonequilibrium steady state of a quantum interacting spin chain. We provide clear numerical evidence of the validity of Fourier law. The regime of normal conductivity is shown to set in at the transition to quantum chaos.

id: cond-mat/0504274
title: Decoherence of Phase Qubit using High-Tc Superconductor
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Satoshi Kashiwaya, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physica E
journal: Physica E 29 (2005) 669
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504274
abstract: We discuss how to make use of high-Tc d-wave Josephson junctions in the construction of a phase qubit. We especially focus on the effect of the quasiparticle dissipation and the zero energy bound state on the macroscopic quantum tunneling which corresponds to the final measurement process of the d-wave phase qubit.

id: cond-mat/0504305
title: Variational matrix product state approach to quantum impurity models
authors: A. Weichselbaum, F. Verstraete, U. Schollw?ck, J. I. Cirac, Jan von Delft
comments: revised version with application to Kondo model at large magnetic field (5 pages, 2 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 80, 165117 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504305
abstract: We present a unified framework for renormalization group methods, including Wilson's numerical renormalization group (NRG) and White's density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG), within the language of matrix product states. This allows improvements over Wilson's NRG for quantum impurity models, as we illustrate for the one-channel Kondo model. Moreover, we use a variational method for evaluating Green's functions. The proposed method is more flexible in its description of spectral properties at finite frequencies, opening the way to time-dependent, out-of-equilibrium impurity problems. It also substantially improves computational efficiency for one-channel impurity problems, suggesting potentially \emph{linear} scaling of complexity for $n$-channel problems.

id: cond-mat/0504332
title: Probing of the Kondo peak by the impurity charge measurement
authors: M. I. Katsnelson, E. Kogan
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504332
abstract: We consider the real-time dynamics of the Kondo system after the local probe of the charge state of the magnetic impurity. Using the exactly solvable infinite-degeneracy Anderson model we find explicitly the evolution of the impurity charge after the measurement.

id: cond-mat/0504347
title: Environmentally induced Quantum Dynamical Phase Transition in the spin swapping operation
authors: Gonzalo Agustin Alvarez, Ernesto Pablo Danieli, Patricia Rebeca Levstein, Horacio Miguel Pastawski
comments: Final version. One figure and some equations corrected, 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 124 (2006) 194507
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504347
abstract: Quantum Information Processing relies on coherent quantum dynamics for a precise control of its basic operations. A swapping gate in a two-spin system exchanges the degenerate states |+,-> and |-,+>. In NMR, this is achieved turning on and off the spin-spin interaction b=\Delta E that splits the energy levels and induces an oscillation with a natural frequency \Delta E/\hbar. Interaction of strength \hbar/\tau_{SE}, with an environment of neighboring spins, degrades this oscillation within a decoherence time scale \tau_{\phi}. While the experimental frequency \omega and decoherence time \tau_{\phi} were expected to be roughly proportional to b/\hbar and \tau_{SE} respectively, we present here experiments that show drastic deviations in both \omega and \tau_{\phi}. By solving the many spin dynamics, we prove that the swapping regime is restricted to \Delta E \tau_{SE} > \hbar. Beyond a critical interaction with the environment the swapping freezes and the decoherence rate drops as 1/\tau_{\phi} \propto (b/\hbar)^2 \tau_{SE}. The transition between quantum dynamical phases occurs when \omega \propto \sqrt{(b/\hbar)^{2}-(k/\tau_{SE})^2} becomes imaginary, resembling an overdamped classical oscillator. Here, 0<k^2<1 depends only on the anisotropy of the system-environment interaction, being 0 for isotropic and 1 for XY interactions. This critical onset of a phase dominated by the Quantum Zeno effect opens up new opportunities for controlling quantum dynamics.

id: cond-mat/0504381
title: Quantum Dynamics and Statistics Properties of Atom-Molecule Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Guang-Ri Jin, Chul Koo Kim, Kyun Nahm
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (to be published in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 045602 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504381
abstract: Based on a two-mode boson model, we study nonclassical properties of the atom-molecule Bose-Einstein condensate. The effects of nonlinear collisions on the dynamics of the molecular formation is studied both in classical and quantum treatments. We find that the conversion from atoms to molecules can be suppressed strongly due to nonlinearity-induced localization of the atomic population. In addition, we study statistical properties of the atom-molecule condensed system by calculating the intensity correlation functions numerically. We find that the effect of nonlinearity leads to the appearance of superchaotic molecular pulses, while maintaining the atomic field sub-Poissonian. The joint quantum statistical properties of the atoms and the molecules always show anti-bunching.

id: cond-mat/0504446
title: Scaling of Entanglement Entropy in the Random Singlet Phase
authors: Nicolas Laflorencie
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 140408(R) (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504446
abstract: We present numerical evidences for the logarithmic scaling of the entanglement entropy in critical random spin chains. Very large scale exact diagonalizations performed at the critical XX point up to L=2000 spins 1/2 lead to a perfect agreement with recent real-space renormalization-group predictions of Refael and Moore [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 93}, 260602 (2004)] for the logarithmic scaling of the entanglement entropy in the Random Singlet Phase with an effective central charge ${\tilde{c}}=c\times \ln 2$. Moreover we provide the first visual proof of the existence the Random Singlet Phase thanks to the quantum entanglement concept.

id: cond-mat/0504513
title: Functionals of the Brownian motion, localization and metric graphs
authors: Alain Comtet, Jean Desbois, Christophe Texier
comments: Review article. 50 pages, 21 eps figures. Version 2: section 5.5 and conclusion added. Several references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, R341-R383 (2005)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504513
abstract: We review several results related to the problem of a quantum particle in a random environment. In an introductory part, we recall how several functionals of the Brownian motion arise in the study of electronic transport in weakly disordered metals (weak localization). Two aspects of the physics of the one-dimensional strong localization are reviewed : some properties of the scattering by a random potential (time delay distribution) and a study of the spectrum of a random potential on a bounded domain (the extreme value statistics of the eigenvalues). Then we mention several results concerning the diffusion on graphs, and more generally the spectral properties of the Schr\"odinger operator on graphs. The interest of spectral determinants as generating functions characterizing the diffusion on graphs is illustrated. Finally, we consider a two-dimensional model of a charged particle coupled to the random magnetic field due to magnetic vortices. We recall the connection between spectral properties of this model and winding functionals of the planar Brownian motion.

id: cond-mat/0504583
title: Generating spin-entangled electron pairs in normal conductors using voltage pulses
authors: A. V. Lebedev, G. B. Lesovik, G. Blatter
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 245314 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504583
abstract: We suggest an operating scheme for the deliberate generation of spin-entangled electron pairs in a normal-metal mesoscopic structure with fork geometry. Voltage pulses with associated Faraday flux equal to one flux unit $\Phi_0=hc/e$ drive individual singlet-pairs of electrons towards the beam splitter. The spin-entangled pair is created through a post-selection in the two branches of the fork. We analyze the appearance of entanglement in a Bell inequality test formulated in terms of the number of transmitted electrons with a given spin polarization.

id: cond-mat/0504717
title: Renormalization algorithm for the calculation of spectra of interacting quantum systems
authors: D. Porras, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: Corrected version. We have added an appendix with an extended explanation of the implementation of our algorithm
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 014410 (2006).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504717
abstract: We present an algorithm for the calculation of eigenstates with definite linear momentum in quantum lattices. Our method is related to the Density Matrix Renormalization Group, and makes use of the distribution of multipartite entanglement to build variational wave--functions with translational symmetry. Its virtues are shown in the study of bilinear--biquadratic S=1 chains.

id: cond-mat/0504724
title: Temperature in One-Dimensional Bosonic Mott insulators
authors: A.Reischl, K.P. Schmidt, G.S. Uhrig
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 063609 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504724
abstract: The Mott insulating phase of a one-dimensional bosonic gas trapped in optical lattices is described by a Bose-Hubbard model. A continuous unitary transformation is used to map this model onto an effective model conserving the number of elementary excitations. We obtain quantitative results for the kinetics and for the spectral weights of the low-energy excitations for a broad range of parameters in the insulating phase. By these results, recent Bragg spectroscopy experiments are explained. Evidence for a significant temperature of the order of the microscopic energy scales is found.

id: cond-mat/0504748
title: q-deformed structures and generalized thermodynamics
authors: A. Lavagno, A.M. Scarfone, P.Narayana Swamy
comments: 11 pages, to appear in Reports on Mathematical Physics
journal: Rept.Math.Phys.55:423-433,2005
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504748
abstract: On the basis of the recently proposed formalism [A. Lavagno and P.N. Swamy, Phys. Rev. E 65, 036101 (2002)], we show that the realization of the thermostatistics of q-deformed algebra can be built on the formalism of q-calculus. It is found that the entire structure of thermodynamics is preserved if we use an appropriate Jackson derivative instead of the ordinary thermodynamic derivative. Furthermore, in analogy with the quantum q-oscillator algebra, we also investigate a possible q-deformation of the classical Poisson bracket in order to extend a generalized q-deformed dynamics in the classical regime.

id: cond-mat/0504762
title: Non-equilibrium coherence dynamics of a soft boson lattice
authors: A. K. Tuchman, C. Orzel, A. Polkovnikov, M. A. Kasevich
comments: 10 pages. 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504762
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium evolution of the phase coherence of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a one dimensional optical lattice, as the lattice is suddenly quenched from an insulating to a superfluid state. We observe slowly damped phase coherence oscillations in the regime of large filling factor (~100 bosons per site) at a frequency proportional to the generalized Josephson frequency. The truncated Wigner approximation (TWA) predicts the frequency of the observed oscillations.

id: cond-mat/0504768
title: Coherence properties of bulk matter
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 5 pages, no figures. A minor correction added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504768
abstract: We prove a theorem, using the density functional approach and relying on a classical result by Lieb and Simon on Thomas-Fermi model, showing that in the thermodynamic limit bulk matter is at most semiclassical and coherence preserving. The connection between quantum fluid dynamics and density functional theory in the formulation due to Kohn and Sham play a significant role leading to a Vlasov-Poisson system of equations for the Wigner function. Coherence stability is achieved by noting that small oscillations in bulk matter are damped by Landau damping. In some conditions the initial Wigner function could generate an opposite effect and coherence stability can be lost involving higher order quantum effects for a macroscopic body.

id: cond-mat/0504784
title: Probing temperature and damping rates in Bose-Einstein condensates using ultraslow light experiments
authors: D. C. Roberts
comments: v2: added curve to figures; slightly revised discussion; minor editorial changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 065602 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504784
abstract: We propose a method to probe Landau and Beliaev processes in dilute trapped atomic condensates with a multiple state structure using ultraslow light experimental configurations. Under certain conditions, damping rates from these collisional processes are directly proportional to the dephasing rates, making it possible to determine damping rates through measurement of the dephasing. In the ultraslow light systems we consider, Landau decay rates are enhanced at low momenta, which allows one to distinguish between Landau-dominated and Beliaev-dominated regimes at the same temperature. Furthermore, the enhancement of Landau rates potentially provides a way to measure low temperatures ($T \ll T_c$) in dilute condensates more accurately than current methods permit.

id: cond-mat/0504787
title: Decoherence of a two-qubit system with a variable bath coupling operator
authors: Markus J. Storcz, Frank Hellmann, Calin Hrelescu, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504787
abstract: We examine the decoherence of an asymmetric two-qubit system that is coupled via a tunable interaction term to a common bath or two individual baths of harmonic oscillators. The dissipative dynamics are evaluated using the Bloch-Redfield formalism. It is shown that the behaviour of the decoherence effects is affected mostly by different symmetries between the qubit operator which is coupled to the environment and temperature, whereas the differences between the two bath configurations are very small. Moreover, it is elaborated that small imperfections of the qubit parameters do not lead to a drastic enhancement of the decoherence rates.

id: cond-mat/0504794
title: New asymptotic behaviour of the surface-atom force out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Mauro Antezza, Lev P. Pitaevskii, Sandro Stringari
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. In press on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 113202 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0504794
abstract: The Casimir-Polder-Lifshitz force felt by an atom near the surface of a substrate is calculated out of thermal equilibrium in terms of the dielectric function of the material and of the atomic polarizability. The new force decays like $1/z^3$ at large distances (i.e. slower than at equilibrium), exhibits a sizable temperature dependence and is attractive or repulsive depending on whether the temperature of the substrate is higher or smaller than the one of the environment. Our predictions can be relevant for experiments with ultracold atomic gases. Both dielectric and metal substrates are considered.

id: cs/0504010
title: Reversible Fault-Tolerant Logic
authors: P. Oscar Boykin, Vwani P. Roychowdhury
comments: 10 pages, to appear in DSN 2005
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0504010
abstract: It is now widely accepted that the CMOS technology implementing irreversible logic will hit a scaling limit beyond 2016, and that the increased power dissipation is a major limiting factor. Reversible computing can potentially require arbitrarily small amounts of energy. Recently several nano-scale devices which have the potential to scale, and which naturally perform reversible logic, have emerged. This paper addresses several fundamental issues that need to be addressed before any nano-scale reversible computing systems can be realized, including reliability and performance trade-offs and architecture optimization. Many nano-scale devices will be limited to only near neighbor interactions, requiring careful optimization of circuits. We provide efficient fault-tolerant (FT) circuits when restricted to both 2D and 1D. Finally, we compute bounds on the entropy (and hence, heat) generated by our FT circuits and provide quantitative estimates on how large can we make our circuits before we lose any advantage over irreversible computing.

id: cs/0504018
title: A Rule-Based Logic for Quantum Information
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0504018
abstract: In the present article, we explore a new approach for the study of orthomodular lattices, where we replace the problematic conjunction by a binary operator, called the Sasaki projection. We present a characterization of orthomodular lattices based on the use of an algebraic version of the Sasaki projection operator (together with orthocomplementation) rather than on the conjunction. We then define of a new logic, which we call Sasaki Orthologic, which is closely related to quantum logic, and provide a rule-based definition of this logic.

id: cs/0504048
title: Oracles Are Subtle But Not Malicious
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0504048
abstract: Theoretical computer scientists have been debating the role of oracles since the 1970's. This paper illustrates both that oracles can give us nontrivial insights about the barrier problems in circuit complexity, and that they need not prevent us from trying to solve those problems. First, we give an oracle relative to which PP has linear-sized circuits, by proving a new lower bound for perceptrons and low- degree threshold polynomials. This oracle settles a longstanding open question, and generalizes earlier results due to Beigel and to Buhrman, Fortnow, and Thierauf. More importantly, it implies the first nonrelativizing separation of "traditional" complexity classes, as opposed to interactive proof classes such as MIP and MA-EXP. For Vinodchandran showed, by a nonrelativizing argument, that PP does not have circuits of size n^k for any fixed k. We present an alternative proof of this fact, which shows that PP does not even have quantum circuits of size n^k with quantum advice. To our knowledge, this is the first nontrivial lower bound on quantum circuit size. Second, we study a beautiful algorithm of Bshouty et al. for learning Boolean circuits in ZPP^NP. We show that the NP queries in this algorithm cannot be parallelized by any relativizing technique, by giving an oracle relative to which ZPP^||NP and even BPP^||NP have linear-size circuits. On the other hand, we also show that the NP queries could be parallelized if P=NP. Thus, classes such as ZPP^||NP inhabit a "twilight zone," where we need to distinguish between relativizing and black-box techniques. Our results on this subject have implications for computational learning theory as well as for the circuit minimization problem.

id: cs/0504110
title: Computing finite-dimensional bipartite quantum separability
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou
comments: Replaced orginal archive submission with PhD thesis, which subsumes and mildly corrects it
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0504110
abstract: Ever since entanglement was identified as a computational and cryptographic resource, effort has been made to find an efficient way to tell whether a given density matrix represents an unentangled, or separable, state. Essentially, this is the quantum separability problem. Chapters 1 to 3 motivate a new interior-point algorithm which, given the expected values of a subset of an orthogonal basis of observables of an otherwise unknown quantum state, searches for an entanglement witness in the span of the subset of observables. When all the expected values are known, the algorithm solves the separability problem. In Chapter 4, I give the motivation for the algorithm and show how it can be used in a particular physical scenario to detect entanglement (or decide separability) of an unknown quantum state using as few quantum resources as possible. I then explain the intuitive idea behind the algorithm and relate it to the standard algorithms of its kind. I end the chapter with a comparison of the complexities of the algorithms surveyed in Chapter 3. Finally, in Chapter 5, I present the details of the algorithm and discuss its performance relative to standard methods.

id: gr-qc/0504030
title: The quantum black hole
authors: Budh Ram, Arun Ram, Nilam Ram
comments: 13 pages, no figs. v2: minor typos corrected. conclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0504030
abstract: The quantum nature of a black hole is revealed using the simplest terms that one learns in undergraduate and beginning graduate courses. The exposition demonstrates -- vividly -- the importance and power of the quantum oscillator in contemporary research in theoretical physics.

id: gr-qc/0504052
title: Semiclassical States for Constrained Systems
authors: Abhay Ashtekar, Luca Bombelli, Alejandro Corichi
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures. V2 discussion expanded. Final version to be published in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev.D72:025008,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0504052
abstract: The notion of semi-classical states is first sharpened by clarifying two issues that appear to have been overlooked in the literature. Systems with linear and quadratic constraints are then considered and the group averaging procedure is applied to kinematical coherent states to obtain physical semi-classical states. In the specific examples considered, the technique turns out to be surprisingly efficient, suggesting that it may well be possible to use kinematical structures to analyze the semi-classical behavior of physical states of an interesting class of constrained systems.

id: gr-qc/0504137
title: Static Einstein's Universe as a Quantum Solution of Causal Quantum Gravity
authors: A. Shojai, F. Shojai, N. Dadhich
comments: to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 2773-2780
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0504137
abstract: We shall in the framework of Bohmian quantum gravity show that it is possible to find a {\it pure} quantum state which leads to the static Einstein universe whose classical counterpart is flat space--time. We obtain the solution not only in the long--wavelength approximation but also exactly.

id: gr-qc/0504138
title: Classical and Quantum Limits in Bohmian Quantum Cosmology
authors: F. Shojai, A. Shirinifard
comments: to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D14 (2005) 1333
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0504138
abstract: In this paper we have investigated the classical limit in Bohmian quantum cosmology. It is observed that in the quantum regime where the quantum potential is greater than the classical one, one has an expansion in terms of negative powers of the Planck constant. But in the classical limit there are regions having positive powers of the Planck constant, and regions having negative powers and also regions having both. The conclusion is that the Bohmian classical limit cannot be obtained by letting the Planck constant goes to zero.

id: hep-th/0504066
title: Whightman function and scalar Casimir densities for a wedge with a cylindrical boundary
authors: A.A. Saharian, A.S. Tarloyan
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, new section is added on the VEVs for the region outside the cylidrical shell, discussion and references added, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 8763-8780
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0504066
abstract: Whightman function, vacuum expectation values of the field square, and the energy-momentum tensor are investigated for a scalar field inside a wedge with and without a coaxial cylindrical boundary. Dirichlet boundary conditions are assumed on the bounding surfaces. The vacuum energy-momentum tensor is evaluated in the general case of the curvature coupling parameter. Making use of a variant of the generalized Abel-Plana formula, expectation values are presented as the sum of two terms. The first one corresponds to the geometry without a cylindrical boundary and the second one is induced by the presence of this boundary. The asymptotic behaviour of the field square, vacuum energy density and stresses near the boundaries are investigated. The additional vacuum forces acting on the wedge sides due the presence of the cylindrical boundary are evaluated and it is shown that these forces are attractive. As a limiting case, the geometry of two parallel plates perpendicularly intersected by a third one is analyzed.

id: hep-th/0504206
title: Two-dimensional models as testing ground for principles and concepts of local quantum physics
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: 55 pages, removal of some typos in section 6
journal: AnnalsPhys.321:435-479,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0504206
abstract: In the past two-dimensional models of QFT have served as theoretical laboratories for testing new concepts under mathematically controllable condition. In more recent times low-dimensional models (e.g. chiral models, factorizing models) often have been treated by special recipes in a way which sometimes led to a loss of unity of QFT. In the present work I try to counteract this apartheid tendency by reviewing past results within the setting of the general principles of QFT. To this I add two new ideas: (1) a modular interpretation of the chiral model Diff(S)-covariance with a close connection to the recently formulated local covariance principle for QFT in curved spacetime and (2) a derivation of the chiral model temperature duality from a suitable operator formulation of the angular Wick rotation (in analogy to the Nelson-Symanzik duality in the Ostertwalder-Schrader setting) for rational chiral theories. The SL(2,Z) modular Verlinde relation is a special case of this thermal duality and (within the family of rational models) the matrix S appearing in the thermal duality relation becomes identified with the statistics character matrix S. The relevant angular Euclideanization'' is done in the setting of the Tomita-Takesaki modular formalism of operator algebras. I find it appropriate to dedicate this work to the memory of J. A. Swieca with whom I shared the interest in two-dimensional models as a testing ground for QFT for more than one decade. This is a significantly extended version of an ``Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics'' contribution hep-th/0502125.

id: hep-th/0504207
title: Casimir Energy for a Purely Dielectric Cylinder by the Mode Summation Method
authors: August Romeo, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 11 pages, REVTeX, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett. B621 (2005) 309-317
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0504207
abstract: We use the mode summation method together with zeta-function regularization to compute the Casimir energy of a dilute dielectric cylinder. The method is very transparent, and sheds light on the reason the resulting energy vanishes.

id: math-ph/0504013
title: A classification of generalized quantum statistics associated with basic classical Lie superalgebras
authors: N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 113504
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0504013
abstract: Generalized quantum statistics such as para-statistics is usually characterized by certain triple relations. In the case of para-Fermi statistics these relations can be associated with the orthogonal Lie algebra B_n=so(2n+1); in the case of para-Bose statistics they are associated with the Lie superalgebra B(0|n)=osp(1|2n). In a previous paper, a mathematical definition of ``a generalized quantum statistics associated with a classical Lie algebra G'' was given, and a complete classification was obtained. Here, we consider the definition of ``a generalized quantum statistics associated with a basic classical Lie superalgebra G''. Just as in the Lie algebra case, this definition is closely related to a certain Z-grading of G. We give in this paper a complete classification of all generalized quantum statistics associated with the basic classical Lie superalgebras A(m|n), B(m|n), C(n) and D(m|n).

id: math-ph/0504033
title: Reduction and Unfolding for Quantum Systems: the Hydrogen Atom
authors: A. D'Avanzo, G. Marmo, A. Valentino
comments: 22 pages, Latex 2e, typos corrected
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 2 (2005) 1043-1062
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0504033
abstract: In this paper we propose a ``quantum reduction procedure'' based on the reduction of algebras of differential operators on a manifold. We use these techniques to show, in a systematic way, how to relate the hydrogen atom to a family of quantum harmonic oscillators, by the means of the Kustaahneimo-Stiefel fibration.

id: math-ph/0504064
title: Classical and Quantum Systems: Alternative Hamiltonian Descriptions
authors: G. Marmo, G. Scolarici, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: To appear on Theor. Math. Phys
journal: Theor.Math.Phys. 144 (2005) 1190-1205; Teor.Mat.Fiz. 144 (2005) 364-383
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0504064
abstract: In complete analogy with the classical situation (which is briefly reviewed) it is possible to define bi-Hamiltonian descriptions for Quantum systems. We also analyze compatible Hermitian structures in full analogy with compatible Poisson structures.

id: math-ph/0504065
title: Quantum Bi-Hamiltonian systems, alternative Hermitian structures and Bi-Unitary transformations
authors: G. Marmo, G. Scolarici, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: Note di Matematica vol 23, 173 (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0504065
abstract: We discuss the dynamical quantum systems which turn out to be bi-unitary with respect to the same alternative Hermitian structures in a infinite-dimensional complex Hilbert space. We give a necessary and sufficient condition so that the Hermitian structures are in generic position. Finally the transformations of the bi-unitary group are explicitly obtained.

id: math/0504058
title: Minimax and adaptive estimation of the Wigner function in quantum homodyne tomography with noisy data
authors: Cristina Butucea, Madalin Gu?a, Luis Artiles
comments: Published at this http URL in the Annals of Statistics (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Statistics 2007, Vol. 35, No. 2, 465-494
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0504058
abstract: We estimate the quantum state of a light beam from results of quantum homodyne measurements performed on identically prepared quantum systems. The state is represented through the Wigner function, a generalized probability density on $\mathbb{R}^2$ which may take negative values and must respect intrinsic positivity constraints imposed by quantum physics. The effect of the losses due to detection inefficiencies, which are always present in a real experiment, is the addition to the tomographic data of independent Gaussian noise. We construct a kernel estimator for the Wigner function, prove that it is minimax efficient for the pointwise risk over a class of infinitely differentiable functions, and implement it for numerical results. We construct adaptive estimators, that is, which do not depend on the smoothness parameters, and prove that in some setups they attain the minimax rates for the corresponding smoothness class.

id: nlin/0504030
title: General Approach to the Quantum Kicked Particle in a Magnetic Field: Quantum-Antiresonance Transition
authors: Itzhack Dana, Dmitry L. Dorofeev
comments: Revised Version, published
journal: Physical Review E 72, 046205 (2005)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0504030
abstract: The quantum kicked particle in a magnetic field is studied in a weak-chaos regime under realistic conditions, i.e., for {\em general} values of the conserved coordinate $x_{{\rm c}}$ of the cyclotron orbit center. The system exhibits spectral structures [``Hofstadter butterflies'' (HBs)] and quantum diffusion depending sensitively on $x_{{\rm c}}$. Most significant changes take place when $x_{{\rm c}}$ approaches the value at which quantum antiresonance (exactly periodic recurrences) can occur: the HB essentially ``doubles'' and the quantum-diffusion coefficient $D(x_{{\rm c}})$ is strongly reduced. An explanation of these phenomena, including an approximate formula for $D(x_{{\rm c}})$ in a class of wave packets, is given on the basis of an effective Hamiltonian which is derived as a power expansion in a small parameter. The global quantum diffusion of a two-dimensional wave packet for all $x_{{\rm c}}$ is briefly considered.

id: physics/0504043
title: On Wave-Particle Duality
authors: W. De Baere
comments: 11 pages, translation in english of M. Renninger's paper "Zum Wellen-Korpuskel-Dualismus", Zeitschrift fur Physik 136, 251-261 (1953)
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0504043
abstract: By means of a thought-experiment, consisting of an interference experiment with two interfering beams, it is shown that it can be demonstrated experimentally that with one single particle a wave can be associated which propagates in space and time as a physical reality, i.e. that it should not merely be considered as a distribution of probabilities. The notion "physical reality" should be understood such that, when this physical reality is considered in a particular space at a particular time, it should be experimentally possible to influence this reality in such a way that future results of experiments show unambiguously that this reality has been causally influenced by the experimental act in this space and at that time.

id: physics/0504154
title: The Zel'dovich effect and evolution of atomic Rydberg spectra along the Periodic Table
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Michael Timmins
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72,022721 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0504154
abstract: In 1959 Ya. B. Zel'dovich predicted that the bound-state spectrum of the non-relativistic Coulomb problem distorted at small distances by a short-range potential undergoes a peculiar reconstruction whenever this potential alone supports a low-energy scattering resonance. However documented experimental evidence of this effect has been lacking. Previous theoretical studies of this phenomenon were confined to the regime where the range of the short-ranged potential is much smaller than Bohr's radius of the Coulomb field. We go beyond this limitation by restricting ourselves to highly-excited s states. This allows us to demonstrate that along the Periodic Table of elements the Zel'dovich effect manifests itself as systematic periodic variation of the Rydberg spectra with a period proportional to the cubic root of the atomic number. This dependence, which is supported by analysis of experimental and numerical data, has its origin in the binding properties of the ionic core of the atom.

id: hep-th/0504227
title: On Dynamics of Strings and Branes
authors: A.V. Golovnev, L.V. Prokhorov
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 942-951
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0504227
abstract: We study Nambu-Goto strings and branes. It is shown that they can be considered as continuous limits of ordered discrete sets of relativistic particles for which the tangential velocities are excluded from the action. The linear in unphysical momenta constraints are found. It allows to derive the evolution operators for the objects under consideration from the "first principles".

id: gr-qc/0504141
title: Motion of Classical Impurities in the Homogeneous Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Jun Suzuki
comments: revtex4, 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0504141
abstract: Motion of classical point-like impurities in the homogeneous Einstein condensate of bosons is studied in the framework of second quantization method. A toy model is proposed and its general solution within the Bogoliubov approximation is obtained. The effective Minkowski space-time structure arises naturally in this non-relativistic quantum many-body system in the low energy regime. This is shown to be true in this model. Several examples are discussed in order to illustrate our model. The homogeneous condensate produces an effective Yukawa type attractive force between impurities sitting in condensate. Landau's criterion is naturally derived in a case of linear motion of impurity. The analytic expressions for spectra of Bogoliubov excitations produced by the accelerated motions of impurities are obtained. A quick look at the analytic expression reveals that the spectrum of gapless excitations emitted by the linearly accelerated impurity {\it is not thermal}. If the homogeneous condensate is the physically correct model for Minkowski space-time then it follows that the apparent thermal response of the simple linearly accelerated detector models may be the result of improper regularization.

