id: quant-ph/0505001
title: Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes and Reversibility of Quantum Operations
authors: Tomohiro Ogawa, Akira Sasaki, Mitsugu Iwamoto, Hirosuke Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505001
abstract: Quantum secret sharing schemes encrypting a quantum state into a multipartite entangled state are treated. The lower bound on the dimension of each share given by Gottesman [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{61}, 042311 (2000)] is revisited based on a relation between the reversibility of quantum operations and the Holevo information. We also propose a threshold ramp quantum secret sharing scheme and evaluate its coding efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0505002
title: Spin dynamics in a dissipative environment: from quantal to classical
authors: J. L. Garcia-Palacios, S. Dattagupta
comments: 4 pp., 3 figs., resubmitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 190401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505002
abstract: We address the problem of spin dynamics in the presence of a thermal bath, by solving exactly the appropriate quantum master equations with continued-fraction methods. The crossover region between the quantum and classical domains is studied by increasing the spin value S, and the asymptote for the classical absorption spectra is eventually recovered. Along with the recognized relevance of the coupling strength, we show the critical role played by the structure of the system-environment interaction in the emergence of classical phenomenology.

id: quant-ph/0505003
title: Investigation of the Casimir force between metal and semiconductor test bodies
authors: F. Chen, U. Mohideen, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; minor abbreviations in the text were made; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.72, 020101(R) (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505003
abstract: The measurement of the Casimir force between a large gold coated sphere and single crystal silicon plate is performed with an atomic force microscope. A rigorous statistical comparison of data with theory is done, without use of the concept of root-mean-square deviation, and excellent agreement is obtained. The Casimir force between metal and semiconductor is demonstrated to be significantly different than between two similar or dissimilar metals.

id: quant-ph/0505004
title: How to model quantum plasmas
authors: G. Manfredi
comments: To be published in the Fields Institute Communications Series. Proceedings of the Workshop on Kinetic Theory, The Fields Institute, Toronto, March 29 - April 2, 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505004
abstract: Traditional plasma physics has mainly focused on regimes characterized by high temperatures and low densities, for which quantum-mechanical effects have virtually no impact. However, recent technological advances (particularly on miniaturized semiconductor devices and nanoscale objects) have made it possible to envisage practical applications of plasma physics where the quantum nature of the particles plays a crucial role. Here, I shall review different approaches to the modeling of quantum effects in electrostatic collisionless plasmas. The full kinetic model is provided by the Wigner equation, which is the quantum analog of the Vlasov equation. The Wigner formalism is particularly attractive, as it recasts quantum mechanics in the familiar classical phase space, although this comes at the cost of dealing with negative distribution functions. Equivalently, the Wigner model can be expressed in terms of $N$ one-particle Schr{\"o}dinger equations, coupled by Poisson's equation: this is the Hartree formalism, which is related to the `multi-stream' approach of classical plasma physics. In order to reduce the complexity of the above approaches, it is possible to develop a quantum fluid model by taking velocity-space moments of the Wigner equation. Finally, certain regimes at large excitation energies can be described by semiclassical kinetic models (Vlasov-Poisson), provided that the initial ground-state equilibrium is treated quantum-mechanically. The above models are validated and compared both in the linear and nonlinear regimes.

id: quant-ph/0505005
title: The dynamics of coupled atom and field assisted by continuous external pumping
authors: Gennadiy Burlak
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505005
abstract: The dynamics of a coupled system comprised of a two-level atom and cavity field assisted by continuous external classical field (driving Jaynes-Cummings model) is studied. When the initial field is prepared in a coherent state, the dynamics strongly depends on the algebraic sum of both fields. If this sum is zero (the compensative case) in the system only the vacuum Rabi oscillations occur. The results with the dissipation and external field detuning from the cavity field are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505006
title: Dynamical phase transitions and temperature induced quantum correlations in an infinite spin chain
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 9 pages, 9 eps figures, RevTeX4; v2: small changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052319 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505006
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement in the infinite asymmetric XY spin chain, in an applied transverse field. The system is prepared in a thermal equilibrium state (ground state at zero temperature) at the initial instant, and it starts evolving after the transverse field is completely turned off. We investigate the evolved state of the chain at a given fixed time, and show that the nearest neighbor entanglement in the chain exhibits a critical behavior (which we call a dynamical phase transition), controlled by the initial value of the transverse field. The character of the dynamical phase transition is qualitatively different for short and long evolution times. We also find a nonmonotonic behavior of entanglement with respect to the temperature of the initial equilibrium state. Interestingly, the region of the initial field for which we obtain a nonmonotonicity of entanglement (with respect to temperature) is directly related to the position and character of the dynamical phase transition in the model.

id: quant-ph/0505007
title: A new algorithm for fixed point quantum search
authors: Tathagat Tulsi, Lov Grover, Apoorva Patel
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505007
abstract: The standard quantum search lacks a feature, enjoyed by many classical algorithms, of having a fixed point, i.e. monotonic convergence towards the solution. Recently a fixed point quantum search algorithm has been discovered, referred to as the Phase-$\pi/3$ search algorithm, which gets around this limitation. While searching a database for a target state, this algorithm reduces the error probability from $\epsilon$ to $\epsilon^{2q+1}$ using $q$ oracle queries, which has since been proved to be asymptotically optimal. A different algorithm is presented here, which has the same worst-case behavior as the Phase-$\pi/3$ search algorithm but much better average-case behavior. Furthermore the new algorithm gives $\epsilon^{2q+1}$ convergence for all integral $q$, whereas the Phase-$\pi/3$ search algorithm requires $q$ to be $(3^{n}-1)/2$ with $n$ a positive integer. In the new algorithm, the operations are controlled by two ancilla qubits, and fixed point behavior is achieved by irreversible measurement operations applied to these ancillas. It is an example of how measurement can allow us to bypass some restrictions imposed by unitarity on quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0505008
title: On Quantum A/D and D/A Conversion
authors: Frank Schmuser, Dominik Janzing
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505008
abstract: An algorithm is proposed which transfers the quantum information of a wave function (analogue signal) into a register of qubits (digital signal) such that $n$ qubits describe the amplitudes and phases of $2^n$ points of a sufficiently smooth wave function. We assume that the continuous degree of freedom couples to one or more qubits of a quantum register via a Jaynes Cummings Hamiltonian and that we have universal quantum computation capabilities on the register as well as the possibility to perform bang-bang control on the qubits. The transfer of information is mainly based on the application of the quantum phase-estimation algorithm in both directions. Here, the running time increases exponentially with the number of qubits. We pose it as an open question which interactions would allow polynomial running time. One example would be interactions which enable exact squeezing operations.

id: quant-ph/0505009
title: A Discussion on the Teleportation Protocol for States of N Qubits
authors: Alejandro Diaz-Caro, Manuel Gadella
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505009
abstract: In this paper, we want to present a simple and comprehensive method to implement teleportation of a system of N qubits and its discussion on the corresponding quantum circuit. The paper can be read for nonspecialists in quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0505010
title: Quantum metastability in time-periodic potentials
authors: Chung-Chieh Lee, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 320 (2005) 175-198
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505010
abstract: In this paper we investigate quantum metastability of a particle trapped in between an infinite wall and a square barrier, with either a time-periodically oscillating barrier (Model A) or bottom of the well (Model B). Based on the Floquet theory, we derive in each case an equation which determines the stability of the metastable system. We study the influence on the stability of two Floquet states when their Floquet energies (real part) encounter a direct or an avoided crossing at resonance. The effect of the amplitude of oscillation on the nature of crossing of Floquet energies is also discussed. It is found that by adiabatically changing the frequency and amplitude of the oscillation field, one can manipulate the stability of states in the well. By means of a discrete transform, the two models are shown to have exactly the same Floquet energy spectrum at the same oscillating amplitude and frequency. The equivalence of the models is also demonstrated by means of the principle of gauge invariance.

id: quant-ph/0505011
title: Phase-space analysis of bosonic spontaneous emission
authors: M.K. Olsen, L.I. Plimak, S. Rebic, A.S. Bradley
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505011
abstract: We present phase-space techniques for the modelling of spontaneous emission in two-level bosonic atoms. The positive-P representation is shown to give a full and complete description and can be further developed to give exact treatments of the interaction of degenerate bosons with the electromagnetic field in a given experimental situation. The Wigner representation, even when truncated at second order, is shown to need a doubling of the phase-space to allow for a positive-definite diffusion matrix in the appropriate Fokker-Planck equation and still fails to agree with the full quantum results of the positive-P representation. We show that quantum statistics and correlations between the ground and excited states affect the dynamics of the emission process, so that it is in general non-exponential.

id: quant-ph/0505012
title: The Schwinger Representation of a Group: Concept and Applications
authors: S. Chaturvedi, G. Marmo, N. Mukunda, R.Simon, A. Zampini
comments: Latex, 17 pages
journal: Rev.Math.Phys. 18 (2006) 887-912
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505012
abstract: The concept of the Schwinger Representation of a finite or compact simple Lie group is set up as a multiplicity-free direct sum of all the unitary irreducible representations of the group. This is abstracted from the properties of the Schwinger oscillator construction for SU(2), and its relevance in several quantum mechanical contexts is highlighted. The Schwinger representations for $SU(2), SO(3)$ and SU(n) for all $n$ are constructed via specific carrier spaces and group actions. In the SU(2) case connections to the oscillator construction and to Majorana's theorem on pure states for any spin are worked out. The role of the Schwinger Representation in setting up the Wigner-Weyl isomorphism for quantum mechanics on a compact simple Lie group is brought out.

id: quant-ph/0505013
title: Periodically-modulated entangled light
authors: H.H. Adamyan, G.Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505013
abstract: We propose periodically-modulated entangled states of light and show that they can be generated in two experimentally feasible schemes of nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator (NOPO): (i) driven by continuously modulated pump field; (ii) under action of a periodic sequence of identical laser pulses. We show that the time-modulation of the pump field amplitude essentially improves the degree of continuous-variable entanglement in NOPO. We develop semiclassical and quantum theories of these devices for both below- and above-threshold regimes. Our analytical results are in well agrement with numerical simulation and support a concept of time-modulated entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0505014
title: Extreme sub-wavelength atom localization via coherent population trapping
authors: Girish S. Agarwal, Kishore T. Kapale
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. vol 39 3437-3446 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505014
abstract: We demonstrate an atom localization scheme based on monitoring of the atomic coherences. We consider atomic transitions in a Lambda configuration where the control field is a standing wave field. The probe field and the control field produce coherence between the two ground states. We show that this coherence has the same fringe pattern as produced by a Fabry-Perot interferometer and thus measurement of the atomic coherence would localize the atom. Interestingly enough the role of the cavity finesse is played by the ratio of the intensities of the pump and probe. This is in fact the reason for obtaining extreme subwavelenth localization. We suggest several methods to monitor the produced localization.

id: quant-ph/0505015
title: Experimental Quantum Error Rejection for Quantum Communication
authors: Yu-Ao Chen, An-Ning Zhang, Zhi Zhao, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 220504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505015
abstract: We report an experimental realization of bit-flip error rejection for error-free transfer of quantum information through a noisy quantum channel. In the experiment, an unknown state to be transmitted is encoded into a two-photon entangled state, which is then sent through an engineered noisy quantum channel. At the final stage, the unknown state is decoded by a quantum parity measurement, successfully rejecting the erroneous transmission over the noisy quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0505016
title: Noncommuting Observables and Local Realism
authors: James D. Malley, Arthur Fine
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Comments welcome. To appear in Physics Letters A, Einstein Centenary Issue, August 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505016
abstract: A standard approach in the foundations of quantum mechanics studies local realism and hidden variables models exclusively in terms of violations of Bell-like inequalities. Thus quantum nonlocality is tied to the celebrated no-go theorems, and these comprise a long list that includes the Kochen-Specker and Bell theorems, as well as elegant refinements by Mermin, Peres, Hardy, GHZ, and many others. Typically entanglement or carefully prepared multipartite systems have been considered essential for violations of local realism and for understanding quantum nonlocality. Here we show, to the contrary, that sharp violations of local realism arise almost everywhere without entanglement. The pivotal fact driving these violations is just the noncommutativity of quantum observables. We demonstrate how violations of local realism occur for arbitrary noncommuting projectors, and for arbitrary quantum pure states. Finally, we point to elementary tests for local realism, using single particles and without reference to entanglement, thus avoiding experimental loopholes and efficiency issues that continue to bedevil the Bell inequality related tests.

id: quant-ph/0505017
title: The Inner Limit of Quantum Brownian Evolution and its Relevance to Positivity
authors: Allan Tameshtit
comments: 11 pages v2: a generalization is provided in the form of an exact expression for the reduced density operator. In addition, the definitions of the operators M and N were changed to ensure that they yield the unit operator (instead of minus the unit operator) at t=0. Equations depending on M and N were also correspondingly changed. These changes do not affect any of the main conclusions relating to positivity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505017
abstract: The conventional quantum Brownian propagator, which describes the evolution of a system of interest bilinearly coupled to and initially uncorrelated with a reservoir, does not preserve positivity of density operators, prompting workers to modify the propagator by the ad hoc addition of time-independent terms to the corresponding generator. We show that no such terms need be added to the generator to preserve positivity provided one accounts for the rapid entanglement of the system of interest and the reservoir on a time scale too short for the conventional propagator to be valid.

id: quant-ph/0505018
title: Performance of cavity-parametric amplifiers, employing Kerr nonlinearites, in the presence of two-photon loss
authors: Bernard Yurke, Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505018
abstract: Two-photon loss mechanisms often accompany a Kerr nonlinearity. The kinetic inductance exhibited by superconducting transmission lines provides an example of a Kerr-like nonlinearity that is accompanied by a nonlinear resistance of the two-photon absorptive type. Such nonlinear dissipation can degrade the performance of amplifiers and mixers employing a Kerr-like nonlinearity as the gain or mixing medium. As an aid for parametric amplifier design, we provide a quantum analysis of a cavity parametric amplifier employing a Kerr nonlinearity that is accompanied by a two-photon absorptive loss. Because of their usefulness in diagnostics, we obtain expressions for the pump amplitude within the cavity, the reflection coefficient for the pump amplitude reflected off of the cavity, the parametric gain, and the intermodulation gain. Expressions by which of the degree of squeezing can be computed are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0505019
title: Optical switching and inversionless amplification controlled by state-dependent alignment of molecules
authors: A. K. Popov, V. V. Slabko
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 35 references
journal: Opt. Lett. 30, 1719-21 (2005); J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38, 1787-1796 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505019
abstract: Switching anisotropic molecules from strongly-absorbing to strongly-amplifying through a transparent state is shown to be possible by application of dc or ac control electric fields without the requirement of the population inversion. It is based on decoupling of the lower-level molecules from the resonant light while the excited ones remain emitting due to their state-dependent alignment. The amplification index may become dependent only on a number of excited molecules and not on the population of the lower state. A suitable class of molecules and applications in optoelectronics, fiberoptics and nanophotonics are outlined.

id: quant-ph/0505020
title: Entanglement and Self-Pulsing Instability
authors: N. H. Adamyan, S. B. Manvelyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: Will be published in "Proceedings of conference Laser Physics-2004", October 12-15, 2004, Ashtarak, Armenia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505020
abstract: We study the Wigner function of phase-locked nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator and find the signatures of both phase-locking and self-pulsing phenomena in phase space. We also analyze the problem of continuous-variable entanglement in the self-pulsing instability regime.

id: quant-ph/0505021
title: Inter-dimensional Degeneracies in van der Waals Clusters and Quantum Monte Carlo Computation of Rovibrational States
authors: M. P. Nightingale, Mervlyn Moodley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505021
abstract: Quantum Monte Carlo estimates of the spectrum of rotationally invariant states of noble gas clusters suggest inter-dimensional degeneracy in $N-1$ and $N+1$ spacial dimensions. We derive this property by mapping the Schr\"odinger eigenvalue problem onto an eigenvalue equation in which $D$ appears as a continuous variable. We discuss implications for quantum Monte Carlo and dimensional scaling methods.

id: quant-ph/0505022
title: Extending additivity from symmetric to asymmetric channels
authors: Motohisa Fukuda
comments: 8 pages. This is the latest version of the first half of the original paper. The other half will appear in another paper
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L753-L758
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505022
abstract: We prove a lemma which allows one to extend results about the additivity of the minimal output entropy from highly symmetric channels to a much larger class. A similar result holds for the maximal output $p$-norm. Examples are given showing its use in a variety of situations. In particular, we prove the additivity and the multiplicativity for the shifted depolarising channel.

id: quant-ph/0505023
title: Deformation quantization of linear dissipative systems
authors: V.G. Kupriyanov, S.L. Lyakhovich, A.A. Sharapov
comments: 14 pages, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505023
abstract: A simple pseudo-Hamiltonian formulation is proposed for the linear inhomogeneous systems of ODEs. In contrast to the usual Hamiltonian mechanics, our approach is based on the use of non-stationary Poisson brackets, i.e. corresponding Poisson tensor is allowed to explicitly depend on time. Starting from this pseudo-Hamiltonian formulation we develop a consistent deformation quantization procedure involving a non-stationary star-product $*_t$ and an ``extended'' operator of time derivative $D_t=\partial_t+...$, differentiating the $\ast_t$-product. As in the usual case, the $\ast_t$-algebra of physical observables is shown to admit an essentially unique (time dependent) trace functional $\mathrm{Tr}_t$. Using these ingredients we construct a complete and fully consistent quantum-mechanical description for any linear dynamical system with or without dissipation. The general quantization method is exemplified by the models of damped oscillator and radiating point charge.

id: quant-ph/0505024
title: Indistinguishable Photons from a Single Molecule
authors: A. Kiraz, M. Ehrl, Th. Hellerer, O. E. Mustecaplioglu, C. Brauchle, A. Zumbusch
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505024
abstract: We report the results of coincidence counting experiments at the output of a Michelson interferometer using the zero-phonon-line emission of a single molecule at $1.4 K$. Under continuous wave excitation, we observe the absence of coincidence counts as an indication of two-photon interference. This corresponds to the observation of Hong-Ou-Mandel correlations and proves the suitability of the zero-phonon-line emission of single molecules for applications in linear optics quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0505025
title: High fidelity simulations of ion trajectories in miniature ion traps using the boundary-element method
authors: Boris Brkic, Stephen Taylor, Jason F. Ralph, Neil France
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, changes made to the text according to the editor's and referee's comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505025
abstract: In this paper we present numerical modeling results for endcap and linear ion traps, used for experiments at the National Physical Laboratory in the UK and Innsbruck University respectively. The secular frequencies for Strontium-88 and Calcium-40 ions were calculated from ion trajectories, simulated using boundary-element and finite-difference numerical methods. The results were compared against experimental measurements. Both numerical methods showed high accuracy with boundary-element method being more accurate. Such simulations can be useful tools for designing new traps and trap arrays. They can also be used for obtaining precise trapping parameters for desired ion control when no analytical approach is possible as well as for investigating the ion heating rates due to thermal electronic noise.

id: quant-ph/0505026
title: A matrix representation of graphs and its spectrum as a graph invariant
authors: David Emms, Edwin R. Hancock, Simone Severini, Richard C. Wilson
comments: 14 pages
journal: The Electronic Journal of Combinatorics 13 (2006), #R34
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505026
abstract: We use the line digraph construction to associate an orthogonal matrix with each graph. From this orthogonal matrix, we derive two further matrices. The spectrum of each of these three matrices is considered as a graph invariant. For the first two cases, we compute the spectrum explicitly and show that it is determined by the spectrum of the adjacency matrix of the original graph. We then show by computation that the isomorphism classes of many known families of strongly regular graphs (up to 64 vertices) are characterized by the spectrum of this matrix. We conjecture that this is always the case for strongly regular graphs and we show that the conjecture is not valid for general graphs. We verify that the smallest regular graphs which are not distinguished with our method are on 14 vertices.

id: quant-ph/0505027
title: Reply to "Comment on 'A linear optics implementation of weak values in Hardy's paradox'"
authors: S. E. Ahnert, M. C. Payne
comments: 2 pages, accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 016012 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505027
abstract: The comment by Lundeen et al. contains two criticisms of our proposal. While we agree that the state-preparation procedure could be replaced by a simpler setup as proposed by the authors of the comment, we do not agree with the authors on their second, and more important point regarding two-particle weak measurements. We believe this to be the result of a misunderstanding of our original paper.

id: quant-ph/0505028
title: Capacities of Quantum Channels for Massive Bosons and Fermions
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Bartosz Gromek, Dagmar Bruss, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps figures, RevTeX4; v2: discussions added, small changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 260503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505028
abstract: We consider the capacity of classical information transfer for noiseless quantum channels carrying a finite average number of massive bosons and fermions. The maximum capacity is attained by transferring the Fock states generated from the grand-canonical ensemble. Interestingly, the channel capacity for a Bose gas indicates the onset of a Bose-Einstein condensation, by changing its qualitative behavior at the criticality, while for a channel carrying weakly attractive fermions, it exhibits the signatures of Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer transition. We also show that for noninteracting particles, fermions are better carriers of information than bosons.

id: quant-ph/0505029
title: Increasing identical particle entanglement by fuzzy measurements
authors: D. Cavalcanti, M.F. Santos, M.O. Terra Cunha, C. Lunkes, V. Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. V2: Appendix added. Minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505029
abstract: We investigate the effects of fuzzy measurements on spin entanglement for identical particles, both fermions and bosons. We first consider an ideal measurement apparatus and define operators that detect the symmetry of the spatial and spin part of the density matrix as a function of particle distance. Then, moving on to realistic devices that can only detect the position of the particle to within a certain spread, it was surprisingly found that the entanglement between particles increases with the broadening of detection.

id: quant-ph/0505030
title: The Solovay-Kitaev algorithm
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 15 pages, accepted to Quantum Information and Computation as Review Article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505030
abstract: This pedagogical review presents the proof of the Solovay-Kitaev theorem in the form of an efficient classical algorithm for compiling an arbitrary single-qubit gate into a sequence of gates from a fixed and finite set. The algorithm can be used, for example, to compile Shor's algorithm, which uses rotations of $\pi / 2^k$, into an efficient fault-tolerant form using only Hadamard, controlled-{\sc not}, and $\pi / 8$ gates. The algorithm runs in $O(\log^{2.71}(1/\epsilon))$ time, and produces as output a sequence of $O(\log^{3.97}(1/\epsilon))$ quantum gates which is guaranteed to approximate the desired quantum gate to an accuracy within $\epsilon > 0$. We also explain how the algorithm can be generalized to apply to multi-qubit gates and to gates from $SU(d)$.

id: quant-ph/0505031
title: Quantum Darwinism: Entanglement, branches, and the emergent classicality of redundantly stored quantum information
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, W. H. Zurek
comments: 22 pages, RevTeX4. Color figures. Revised in light of referee comments from PRA; improved presentation, no major content changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505031
abstract: We lay a comprehensive foundation for the study of redundant information storage in decoherence processes. Redundancy has been proposed as a prerequisite for objectivity, the defining property of classical objects. We consider two ensembles of states for a model universe consisting of one system and many environments: the first consisting of arbitrary states, and the second consisting of ``singly-branching'' states consistent with a simple decoherence model. Typical states from the random ensemble do not store information about the system redundantly, but information stored in branching states has a redundancy proportional to the environment's size. We compute the specific redundancy for a wide range of model universes, and fit the results to a simple first-principles theory. Our results show that the presence of redundancy divides information about the system into three parts: classical (redundant); purely quantum; and the borderline, undifferentiated or ``nonredundant,'' information.

id: quant-ph/0505032
title: Unusual scalar products in Hilbert space of Quantum Mechanics: non-Hermitian square-well model with two coupled channels
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 13 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505032
abstract: A pseudo-Hermitian coupled-channel square-well model is proposed, solved and discussed. The domain of parameters is determined where all the bound-state energies (twice degenerate with respect to the second observable which we call "spin") remain real. The standard probabilistic interpretation of the wave functions is achieved by the transition from the original elementary non-physical indefinite pseudo-metric $\theta$ to another, more involved but correct positive-definite physical metric $\Theta$. In our model the latter step remains comparatively easily feasible. Another fortunate circumstance emerges during the perturbative construction of the metric $\Theta$ and, hence, of the correct scalar product and of the physical norm. One finds that at the higher energy levels the influence of all the non-Hermiticities of our model becomes very strongly and progressively suppressed.

id: quant-ph/0505033
title: Isoholonomic Problem and Holonomic Quantum Computation
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 7 pages, Proceedings of International Conference on Topology in Ordered Phases organized by Hokkaido University in March 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505033
abstract: Geometric phases accompanying adiabatic processes in quantum systems can be utilized as unitary gates for quantum computation. Optimization of control of the adiabatic process naturally leads to the isoholonomic problem. The isoholonomic problem in a homogeneous fiber bundle is formulated and solved completely.

id: quant-ph/0505034
title: Generalised Hong-Ou-Mandel Experiments with Bosons and Fermions
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, more references added
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 155 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505034
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) dip plays an important role in recent linear optics experiments. It is crucial for quantum computing with photons and can be used to characterise the quality of single photon sources and linear optics setups. In this paper, we consider generalised HOM experiments with $N$ bosons or fermions passing simultaneously through a symmetric Bell multiport beam splitter. It is shown that for even numbers of bosons, the HOM dip occurs naturally in the coincidence detection in the output ports. In contrast, fermions always leave the setup separately exhibiting perfect coincidence detection. Our results can be used to verify or employ the quantum statistics of particles experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0505035
title: Security of two quantum cryptography protocols using the same four qubit states
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Barbara Kraus, Valerio Scarani
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505035
abstract: The first quantum cryptography protocol, proposed by Bennett and Brassard in 1984 (BB84), has been widely studied in the last years. This protocol uses four states (more precisely, two complementary bases) for the encoding of the classical bit. Recently, it has been noticed that by using the same four states, but a different encoding of information, one can define a new protocol which is more robust in practical implementations, specifically when attenuated laser pulses are used instead of single-photon sources [V. Scarani et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 057901 (2004); referred to as SARG04]. We present a detailed study of SARG04 in two different regimes. In the first part, we consider an implementation with a single-photon source: we derive bounds on the error rate $Q$ for security against all possible attacks by the eavesdropper. The lower and the upper bound obtained for SARG04 ($Q\lesssim 10.95%$ and $Q\gtrsim 14.9%$ respectively) are close to those obtained for BB84 ($Q\lesssim 12.4%$ and $Q\gtrsim 14.6%$ respectively). In the second part, we consider the realistic source consisting of an attenuated laser and improve on previous analysis by allowing Alice to optimize the mean number of photons as a function of the distance. SARG04 is found to perform better than BB84, both in secret key rate and in maximal achievable distance, for a wide class of Eve's attacks.

id: quant-ph/0505036
title: Entanglement on mixed stabiliser states--I: Normal Forms and Reduction Procedures
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 13 pages. Replaced with published version. Mistake in result about Uhlmann fidelity corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 170 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505036
abstract: The stabiliser formalism allows the efficient description of a sizeable class of pure as well as mixed quantum states of N-qubit systems. That same formalism has important applications in the field of quantum error correcting codes, where mixed stabiliser states correspond to projectors on subspaces associated with stabiliser codes. Here, we derive efficient reduction procedures to obtain various useful normal forms for stabiliser states. We explicitly prove that these procedures will always converge to the correct result and that these procedures are efficient in that they only require a polynomial number of operations on the generators of the stabilisers. We obtain two single-party normal forms. The simplest, the row-reduced echelon form, is useful to calculate partial traces of stabiliser states. The second is the fully reduced form and allows for the efficient calculation of the overlap between two stabiliser states, as well as of the Uhlmann fidelity between them, and their Bures distance. We also find a reduction procedure of bipartite stabiliser states, where the operations involved are restricted to be local ones. Using this two-party normal form, we prove that every bipartite mixed stabiliser state is locally equivalent to a direct product of a number of maximally entangled states and a separable state. Using this normal form we can efficiently calculate every reasonable bipartite entanglement measure of mixed stabiliser states.

id: quant-ph/0505037
title: Information transfer in leaky atom-cavity systems
authors: Biplab Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: Latex, 14 pages, 8 .eps figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 4 (2006) 665
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505037
abstract: We consider first a system of two enatangled cavities and a single two-level atom passing through one of them. A ``monogamy'' inequality for this tripartite system is quantitatively studied and verified in the presence of cavity leakage. We next consider the simultaneous passage of two-level atoms through both the cavities. Entanglement swapping is observed between the two-cavity and the two-atom system. Cavity dissipation leads to the quantitative reduction of information transfer though preserving the basic swapping property.

id: quant-ph/0505038
title: Entanglement of assistance and multipartite state distillation
authors: John A. Smolin, Frank Verstraete, Andreas Winter
comments: 11 pages revtex4, 1 hand-drawn eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 72, 052317, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505038
abstract: We find that the asymptotic entanglement of assistance of a general bipartite mixed state is equal to the smaller of its two local entropies. Our protocol gives rise to the asymptotically optimal EPR pair distillation procedure for a given tripartite pure state, and we show that it actually yields EPR and GHZ states; in fact, under a restricted class of protocols, which we call "one-way broadcasting", the GHZ-rate is shown to be optimal. This result implies a capacity theorem for quantum channels where the environment helps transmission by broadcasting the outcome of an optimally chosen measurement. We discuss generalisations to m parties, and show (for m=4) that the maximal amount of entanglement that can be localised between two parties is given by the smallest entropy of a group of parties of which the one party is a member, but not the other. This gives an explicit expression for the asymptotic localisable entanglement, and shows that any nontrivial ground state of a spin system can be used as a perfect quantum repeater if many copies are available in parallel. Finally, we provide evidence that any unital channel is asymptotically equivalent to a mixture of unitaries, and any general channel to a mixture of partial isometries.

id: quant-ph/0505039
title: Comment on "On infinite walls in deformation quantization"
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 8 pages, Latex file, revised version
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 495-502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505039
abstract: We discuss a recent method proposed by Kryukov and Walton to address boundary-value problems in the context of deformation quantization. We compare their method with our own approach and establish a connection between the two formalisms.

id: quant-ph/0505040
title: All (qubit) decoherences: Complete characterization and physical implementation
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 72, 022110 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505040
abstract: We investigate decoherence channels that are modelled as a sequence of collisions of a quantum system (e.g., a qubit) with particles (e.g., qubits) of the environment. We show that collisions induce decoherence when a bi-partite interaction between the system qubit and an environment (reservoir) qubit is described by the controlled-U unitary transformation (gate). We characterize decoherence channels and in the case of a qubit we specify the most general decoherence channel and derive a corresponding master equation. Finally, we analyze entanglement that is generated during the process of decoherence between the system and its environment.

id: quant-ph/0505041
title: Towards quantum-based privacy and voting
authors: Mark Hillery, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek, Martina Bielikova
comments: 5 pages, improved description of the protocol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505041
abstract: The privacy of communicating participants is often of paramount importance, but in some situations it is an essential condition. A typical example is a fair (secret) voting. We analyze in detail communication privacy based on quantum resources, and we propose new quantum protocols. Possible generalizations that would lead to voting schemes are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505042
title: Effective potential analytic continuation approach for real time quantum correlation functions involving nonlinear operators
authors: Atsushi Horikoshi, Kenichi Kinugawa
comments: REVTeX4, 18 pages, 9 eps figures
journal: J.Chem.Phys. 122 (2005) 174104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505042
abstract: We apply the effective potential analytic continuation (EPAC) method to the calculation of real time quantum correlation functions involving operators nonlinear in the position operator $\hat{q}$. For a harmonic system the EPAC method provides the exact correlation function at all temperature ranges, while the other quantum dynamics methods, the centroid molecular dynamics and the ring polymer molecular dynamics, become worse at lower temperature. For an asymmetric anharmonic system, the EPAC correlation function is in very good agreement with the exact one at $t=0$. When the time increases from zero, the EPAC method gives good coincidence with the exact result at lower temperature. Finally, we propose a simplified version of the EPAC method to reduce the computational cost required for the calculation of the standard effective potential.

id: quant-ph/0505043
title: Spectral Approach to Chaos and Quantum-Classical Correspondence in Quantum Mapas
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Marcos Saraceno
comments: Brief Review to appear in the April '05 Issue of Mod. Phys. Lett. B (World Scientific)
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 19, 341 (2005) (World Scientific)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505043
abstract: Correspondence in quantum chaotic systems is lost in short time scales. Introducing some noise we study the spectrum of the resulting coarse grained propagaor of density matrices. Some differen methods to compute the spectrum are reviewed. Moreover, the relationship between the eigenvalues of the coarse-grained superoperator and the classical Ruelle-Pollicott resonances is remarked. As a concequence, classical decay rates in quantum time dependent quantities appear.

id: quant-ph/0505044
title: Spectral Conditions on the State of a Composite Quantum System Implying its Separability
authors: G.A. Raggio
comments: Corrects 1. of Lemma 2, and the (under)statement of Proposition 7 of the earlier version 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505044
abstract: For any unitarily invariant convex function F on the states of a composite quantum system which isolates the trace there is a critical constant C such that F(w)<= C for a state w implies that w is not entangled; and for any possible D > C there are entangled states v with F(v)=D. Upper- and lower bounds on C are given. The critical values of some F's for qubit/qubit and qubit/qutrit bipartite systems are computed. Simple conditions on the spectrum of a state guaranteeing separability are obtained. It is shown that the thermal equilbrium states specified by any Hamiltonian of an arbitrary compositum are separable if the temperature is high enough.

id: quant-ph/0505045
title: Stochasticity, decoherence and an arrow of time from the discretization of time?
authors: M. C. Valsakumar
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Pramana: Journal of Physics, 64 (2005) 593
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505045
abstract: Certain intriguing consequences of the discreteness of time on the time evolution of dynamical systems are discussed. In the discrete-time classical mechanics proposed here, there is an {\it arrow of time} that follows from the fact that the replacement of the time derivative by the backward difference operator alone can preserve the non-negativity of the phase space density. It is seen that, even for free particles, all the degrees of freedom are {\it correlated} in principle. The forward evolution of functions of phase space variables by a finite number of time steps, in this discrete-time mechanics, depends on the entire continuous-time history in the interval $[0, \infty]$. In this sense, discrete time evolution is {\it nonlocal} in time from a continuous-time point of view. A corresponding quantum mechanical treatment is possible {\it via} the density matrix approach. The interference between non-degenerate quantum mechanical states decays exponentially. This {\it decoherence} is present, in principle, for all systems; however, it is of practical importance only in macroscopic systems, or in processes involving large energy changes.

id: quant-ph/0505046
title: Nonlinear Quantum Dynamics
authors: Salman Habib, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Andrew Doherty, Benjamin Greenbaum, Asa Hopkins, Kurt Jacobs, Hideo Mabuchi, Keith Schwab, Kosuke Shizume, Daniel Steck, Bala Sundaram
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, invited talk at the NATO Advanced Workshop, "Nonlinear Dynamics and Fundamental Interactions," (October, 2004, Tashkent)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505046
abstract: The vast majority of the literature dealing with quantum dynamics is concerned with linear evolution of the wave function or the density matrix. A complete dynamical description requires a full understanding of the evolution of measured quantum systems, necessary to explain actual experimental results. The dynamics of such systems is intrinsically nonlinear even at the level of distribution functions, both classically as well as quantum mechanically. Aside from being physically more complete, this treatment reveals the existence of dynamical regimes, such as chaos, that have no counterpart in the linear case. Here, we present a short introductory review of some of these aspects, with a few illustrative results and examples.

id: quant-ph/0505047
title: A two-level atom coupled to a controllable squeezed vacuum field reservoir
authors: Jun-Hong An, Shun-Jin Wang, Hong-Gang Luo, Cheng-Long Jia
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 6 (2004) 510-516
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505047
abstract: The dissipative and decoherence properties of the two-level atom interacting with the squeezed vacuum field reservoir are investigated based on the nonautonomous master equation of the atomic density matrix in the framework of algebraic dynamics. The nonautonomous master equation is converted into a Schr\"{o}dinger-like equations and its dynamical symmetry is found based on the left and right representations of the relevant algebra. The time-dependent solution and the steady solution are obtained analytically. The asymptotic behavior of the solution is examined and the approach to the equilibrium state is proved. Based on the analytic solution the response of the system to the squeezed vacuum field reservoir is studied numerically.

id: quant-ph/0505048
title: Maximal output purity and capacity for asymmetric unital qudit channels
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Added a few references in v4. Previously added a section on numerical studies giving evidence for additivity of channel capacity, and comments on the relationship to quant-ph/0412133 and quant-ph/0505022
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 3, 9785-9802 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505048
abstract: We consider generalizations of depolarizing channels to maps in which the identity channel is replaced by a convex combinations of unitary conjugations. We show that one can construct unital channels of this type for which the input which achieves maximal output purity is unique. We give conditions under which multiplicativity of the maximal p-norm and additivity of the minimal output entropy. We also show that the Holevo capacity need not equal log d - the minimal entropy as one might expect for a convex combination of unitary conjugations. Conversely, we give examples for which this condition holds, but the channel has no evident covariance properties.

id: quant-ph/0505049
title: Diffusion and entanglement of a kicked particle in an infinite square well under frequent measurements
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, RevTex4, Accepted by Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 046204 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505049
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a kicked particle in an infinite square well undergoing frequent measurements of energy. For a large class of periodic kicking force, constant diffusion is found in such a non-KAM system. The influence of phase shift of the kicking potential on the short-time dynamical behavior is discussed. The general asymptotical measurement-assisted diffusion rate is obtained. The entanglement between the particle and the measuring apparatus is investigated. There exist two distinct dynamical behaviors of entanglement. The bipartite entanglement grows with the kicking steps and it gains larger value for the more chaotic system. However, the pairwise entanglement between the system of interest and the partial spins of the measuring apparatus decreases with the kicking steps. The relation between the entanglement and quantum diffusion is also analyzed. PACS numbers: 05.45.Mt, 03.65.Ta

id: quant-ph/0505050
title: Mesoscopic Fractional Quantum in Soft Matter
authors: W Chen
comments: Any comments please go to chen_wen@iapcm.ac.cn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505050
abstract: Soft matter (e.g., biomaterials, polymers, sediments, oil, emulsions) has become an important bridge between physics and diverse disciplines. Its fundamental physical mechanism, however, is largely obscure. This study made the first attempt to connect fractional Schrodinger equation and soft matter physics under a consistent framework from empirical power scaling to phenomenological kinetics and macromechanics to mesoscopic quantum mechanics. The original contributions are the fractional quantum relationships, which show Levy statistics and fractional Brownian motion are essentially related to momentum and energy, respectively. The fractional quantum underlies fractal mesostructures and many-body interactions of macromolecules in soft matter and is experimentally testable.

id: quant-ph/0505051
title: Theory of Initialization-Free Decoherence-Free Subspaces and Subsystems
authors: A. Shabani, D.A. Lidar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505051
abstract: We introduce a generalized theory of decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems (DFSs), which do not require accurate initialization. We derive a new set of conditions for the existence of DFSs within this generalized framework. By relaxing the initialization requirement we show that a DFS can tolerate arbitrarily large preparation errors. This has potentially significant implications for experiments involving DFSs, in particular for the experimental implementation, over DFSs, of the large class of quantum algorithms which can function with arbitrary input states.

id: quant-ph/0505052
title: Comment on "Quantum secret sharing based on reusable Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states as secure carriers" [Phys. Rev. A 67, 044302 (2003)]
authors: Fei Gao, Fenzhuo Guo, Qiaoyan Wen, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 036302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505052
abstract: In a recent paper [S. Bagherinezhad and V. Karimipour, Phys. Rev. A 67, 044302 (2003)], a quantum secret sharing protocol based on reusable GHZ states was proposed. However, in this Comment, it is shown that this protocol is insecure if Eve employs a special strategy to attack.

id: quant-ph/0505053
title: Comment on "Quantum key distribution for d-level systems with generalized Bell states" [Phys. Rev. A 65, 052331 (2002)]
authors: Fei Gao, Fenzhuo Guo, Qiaoyan Wen, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 72, 066301 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505053
abstract: In the paper [Phys. Rev. A 65, 052331(2002)], an entanglement-based quantum key distribution protocol for d-level systems was proposed. However, in this Comment, it is shown that this protocol is insecure for a special attack strategy.

id: quant-ph/0505054
title: Robust quantum gates on neutral atoms with cavity-assisted photon-scattering
authors: L.-M. Duan, B. Wang, H. J. Kimble
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032333 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505054
abstract: We propose a scheme to achieve quantum computation with neutral atoms whose interactions are catalyzed by single photons. Conditional quantum gates, including an $N$-atom Toffoli gate and nonlocal gates on remote atoms, are obtained through cavity-assisted photon scattering in a manner that is robust to random variation in the atom-photon coupling rate and which does not require localization in the Lamb-Dicke regime. The dominant noise in our scheme is automatically detected for each gate operation, leading to signalled errors which do not preclude efficient quantum computation even if the error probability is close to the unity.

id: quant-ph/0505055
title: Quantum Computing with Spin Qubits Interacting Through Delocalized Excitons: Overcoming Hole Mixing
authors: Brendon W. Lovett, Ahsan Nazir, Ehoud Pazy, Sean D. Barrett, Tim P. Spiller, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: Updated with published version, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 115324 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505055
abstract: As a candidate scheme for controllably coupled qubits, we consider two quantum dots, each doped with a single electron. The spin of the electron defines our qubit basis and trion states can be created by using polarized light; we show that the form of the excited trion depends on the state of the qubit. By using the Luttinger-Kohn Hamiltonian we calculate the form of these trion states in the presence of light-heavy hole mixing, and show that they can interact through both the F\"orster transfer and static dipole-dipole interactions. Finally, we demonstrate that by using chirped laser pulses, it is possible to perform a two-qubit gate in this system by adiabatically following the eigenstates as a function of laser detuning. These gates are robust in that they operate with any realistic degree of hole mixing, and for either type of trion-trion coupling.

id: quant-ph/0505056
title: Decoherence at absolute zero
authors: Supurna Sinha
comments: Published in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 228 (1997) 1-6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505056
abstract: We present an analytical study of the loss of quantum coherence at absolute zero. Our model consists of a harmonic oscillator coupled to an environment of harmonic oscillators at absolute zero. We find that for an Ohmic bath, the offdiagonal elements of the density matrix in the position representation decay as a power law in time at late times. This slow loss of coherence in the quantum domain is qualitatively different from the exponential decay observed in studies of high temperature environments.

id: quant-ph/0505057
title: Macroscopic entanglement in Quantum Computation
authors: Akihisa Ukena, Akira Shimizu
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, Typos in Sec. III are fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505057
abstract: We investigate macroscopic entanglement of quantum states in quantum computers, where we say a quantum state is entangled macroscopically if the state has superposition of macroscopically distinct states. The index $p$ of the macroscopic entanglement is calculated as a function of the step of the computation, for Grover's quantum search algorithm and Shor's factoring algorithm. It is found that whether macroscopically entangled states are used or not depends on the numbers and properties of the solutions to the problem to be solved. When the solutions are such that the problem becomes hard in the sense that classical algorithms take more than polynomial steps to find a solution, macroscopically entangled states are always used in Grover's algorithm and almost always used in Shor's algorithm. Since they are representative algorithms for unstructured and structured problems, respectively, our results support strongly the conjecture that quantum computers utilize macroscopically entangled states when they solve hard problems much faster than any classical algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0505058
title: Adiabatic geometric phases in hydrogenlike atoms
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, X. X. Yi, J. ?berg
comments: Clarifying material added, one figure removed, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 054101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505058
abstract: We examine the effect of spin-orbit coupling on geometric phases in hydrogenlike atoms exposed to a slowly varying magnetic field. The marginal geometric phases associated with the orbital angular momentum and the intrinsic spin fulfill a sum rule that explicitly relates them to the corresponding geometric phase of the whole system. The marginal geometric phases in the Zeeman and Paschen-Back limit are analyzed. We point out the existence of nodal points in the marginal phases that may be detected by topological means.

id: quant-ph/0505059
title: On the Everett programme and the Born rule
authors: Patrick Van Esch
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505059
abstract: Proponents of the Everett interpretation of Quantum Theory have made efforts to show that to an observer in a branch, everything happens as if the projection postulate were true without postulating it. In this paper, we will indicate that it is only possible to deduce this rule if one introduces another postulate that is logically equivalent to introducing the projection postulate as an extra assumption. We do this by examining the consequences of changing the projection postulate into an alternative one, while keeping the unitary part of quantum theory, and indicate that this is a consistent (although strange) physical theory.

id: quant-ph/0505060
title: Two-Party Bell Inequalities Derived from Combinatorics via Triangular Elimination
authors: David Avis, Hiroshi Imai, Tsuyoshi Ito, Yuuya Sasaki
comments: Part of results in Section 2 appeared in quant-ph/0404014, but this paper gives new proofs using only elementary mathematics. The results in Section 3 was presented in EQIS'04, Kyoto, Sept. 2004. 20 pages with 2 figures. Submitted to Journal of Physics A. v2: introduction rewritten, typos corrected, some detail of proof of Th 2.1 added, relation to open problems mentioned in concluding remarks. v3: URL of the page containing list of Bell inequalities and program to produce it added, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505060
abstract: We establish a relation between the two-party Bell inequalities for two-valued measurements and a high-dimensional convex polytope called the cut polytope in polyhedral combinatorics. Using this relation, we propose a method, triangular elimination, to derive tight Bell inequalities from facets of the cut polytope. This method gives two hundred million inequivalent tight Bell inequalities from currently known results on the cut polytope. In addition, this method gives general formulas which represent families of infinitely many Bell inequalities. These results can be used to examine general properties of Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0505061
title: Generalized decoding, effective channels, and simplified security proofs in quantum key distribution
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Markus Grassl
comments: 9.1 pages REVTeX. (v3): published version. (v2): revised for improved presentation; content unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505061
abstract: Prepare and measure quantum key distribution protocols can be decomposed into two basic steps: delivery of the signals over a quantum channel and distillation of a secret key from the signal and measurement records by classical processing and public communication. Here we formalize the distillation process for a general protocol in a purely quantum-mechanical framework and demonstrate that it can be viewed as creating an ``effective'' quantum channel between the legitimate users Alice and Bob. The process of secret key generation can then be viewed as entanglement distribution using this channel, which enables application of entanglement-based security proofs to essentially any prepare and measure protocol. To ensure secrecy of the key, Alice and Bob must be able to estimate the channel noise from errors in the key, and we further show how symmetries of the distillation process simplify this task. Applying this method, we prove the security of several key distribution protocols based on equiangular spherical codes.

id: quant-ph/0505062
title: Quantum information can be negative
authors: Michal Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: Nature 436:673-676 (2005) as "Partial quantum information"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505062
abstract: Given an unknown quantum state distributed over two systems, we determine how much quantum communication is needed to transfer the full state to one system. This communication measures the "partial information" one system needs conditioned on it's prior information. It turns out to be given by an extremely simple formula, the conditional entropy. In the classical case, partial information must always be positive, but we find that in the quantum world this physical quantity can be negative. If the partial information is positive, its sender needs to communicate this number of quantum bits to the receiver; if it is negative, the sender and receiver instead gain the corresponding potential for future quantum communication. We introduce a primitive "quantum state merging" which optimally transfers partial information. We show how it enables a systematic understanding of quantum network theory, and discuss several important applications including distributed compression, multiple access channels and multipartite assisted entanglement distillation (localizable entanglement). Negative channel capacities also receive a natural interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0505063
title: Smooth Controllability of Infinite Dimensional Quantum Mechanical Systems
authors: Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Chun-Wen Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505063
abstract: Manipulation of infinite dimensional quantum systems is important to controlling complex quantum dynamics with many practical physical and chemical backgrounds. In this paper, a general investigation is casted to the controllability problem of quantum systems evolving on infinite dimensional manifolds. Recognizing that such problems are related with infinite dimensional controllability algebras, we introduce an algebraic mathematical framework to describe quantum control systems possessing such controllability algebras. Then we present the concept of smooth controllability on infinite dimensional manifolds, and draw the main result on approximate strong smooth controllability. This is a nontrivial extension of the existing controllability results based on the analysis over finite dimensional vector spaces to analysis over infinite dimensional manifolds. It also opens up many interesting problems for future studies.

id: quant-ph/0505064
title: Quantum limits to the measurement of spacetime geometry
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: Withdrawn because superseded by 1206.6559 (gr-qc) `The quantum geometric limit.' Substantial results from this paper appear in corrected form in the first half of 1206.6559
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505064
abstract: This letter analyzes the limits that quantum mechanics imposes on the accuracy to which spacetime geometry can be measured. By applying the physics of computation to ensembles of clocks, as in GPS, we present a covariant version of the quantum geometric limit, which states that the total number of ticks of clocks and clicks of detectors that can be contained in a four volume of spacetime of radius r and temporal extent t is less than or equal to rt/pi x_P t_P, where x_P, t_P are the Planck length and time. The quantum geometric bound limits the number of events or `ops' that can take place in a four-volume of spacetime and is consistent with and complementary to the holographic bound which limits the number of bits that can exist within a three-volume of spacetime.

id: quant-ph/0505065
title: Braid Topologies for Quantum Computation
authors: N.E. Bonesteel, Layla Hormozi, Georgios Zikos, Steven H. Simon
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 140503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505065
abstract: In topological quantum computation, quantum information is stored in states which are intrinsically protected from decoherence, and quantum gates are carried out by dragging particle-like excitations (quasiparticles) around one another in two space dimensions. The resulting quasiparticle trajectories define world-lines in three dimensional space-time, and the corresponding quantum gates depend only on the topology of the braids formed by these world-lines. We show how to find braids that yield a universal set of quantum gates for qubits encoded using a specific kind of quasiparticle which is particularly promising for experimental realization.

id: quant-ph/0505066
title: On the notion of quantum Lyapunov exponent
authors: M.F. Kondratieva, T.A. Osborn
comments: 11 pages. Submitted to: Proceedings of Petrovskii Conference on Differential Equations, May 2004, Moscow, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505066
abstract: Classical chaos refers to the property of trajectories to diverge exponentially as time tends to infinity. It is characterized by a positive Lyapunov exponent. There are many different descriptions of quantum chaos. The one related to the notion of generalized (quantum) Lyapunov exponent is based either on qualitative physical considerations or on the so-called symplectic tomography map. The purpose of this note is to show how the definition of quantum Lyapunov exponent naturally arises in the framework of the Moyal phase space formulation of quantum mechanics and is based on the notions of quantum trajectories and the family of quantizers. The role of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle in the statement of the criteria for quantum chaos is made explicit.

id: quant-ph/0505067
title: Dynamical symmetry and analytical solutions of the non-autonomous quantum master equation of the dissipative two-level system: decoherence of quantum register
authors: Shun-Jin Wang, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, Cheng-Long Jia
comments: 10 pages, Revtex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 829-840
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505067
abstract: Based on the non-autonomous quantum master equation, we investigate the dissipative and decoherence properties of the two-level atom system interacting with the environment of thermal quantum radiation fields. For this system, by a novel algebraic dynamic method, the dynamical symmetry of the system is found, the quantum master equation is converted into a Schr\"{o}dinger-like equation and the non-Hermitian rate (quantum Liouville) operator of the master equation is expressed as a linear function of the dynamical u(2) generators. Furthermore, the integrability of the non-autonomous master equation has been proved for the first time. Based on the time-dependent analytical solutions, the asymptotic behavior of the solution has been examined and the approach to the equilibrium state has been proved. Finally, we have studied the decoherence property of the multiple two-level atom system coupled to the thermal radiation fields, which are related to the quantum register.

id: quant-ph/0505068
title: Hadamard type operations for qubits
authors: Arpita Maitra, Preeti Parashar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505068
abstract: We obtain the most general ensemble of qubits, for which it is possible to design a universal Hadamard gate. These states when geometrically represented on the Bloch sphere, give a new trajectory. We further consider some Hadamard `type' of operations and find ensembles of states for which such transformations hold. Unequal superposition of a qubit and its orthogonal complement is also investigated.

id: quant-ph/0505069
title: The Singapore Protocol: Incoherent Eavesdropping Attacks
authors: Janet Anders, Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert, Shiang Yong Looi
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505069
abstract: We thoroughly analyse the novel quantum key distribution protocol introduced recently in quant-ph/0412075, which is based on minimal qubit tomography. We examine the efficiency of the protocol for a whole range of noise parameters and present a general analysis of incoherent eavesdropping attacks with arbitrarily many steps in the iterative key generation process. The comparison with the tomographic 6-state protocol shows that our protocol has a higher efficiency (up to 20%) and ensures the security of the established key even for noise parameters far beyond the 6-state protocol's noise threshold.

id: quant-ph/0505070
title: Measurements and Decoherence
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 31 pages; Lectures at the nineth frontiers meeting at the Centre for Learning at Varadanahalli (near Bangalore), Jan 3-7, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505070
abstract: A pedagogical and reasonably self-contained introduction to the measurement problems in quantum mechanics and their partial solution by environment-induced decoherence (plus some other important aspects of dcoherence) is given. The point that decoherence does not solve the measurement problems completely is clearly brought out.The relevance of interpretation of quantum mechanics in this context is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505071
title: The logarithmic negativity: A full entanglement monotone that is not convex
authors: M.B. Plenio
comments: Replaced with published version which includes one figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505071
abstract: It is proven that the logarithmic negativity does not increase on average under positive partial transpose preserving (PPT) operation including subselection (a set of operations that incorporate local operations and classical communication (LOCC) as a subset) and, in the process, a further proof is provided that the negativity does not increase on average under the same set of operations. Given that the logarithmic negativity is obtained from the negativity applying a concave function and is itself not a convex quantity this result is surprising as convexity is generally considered as describing the local physical process of losing information. The role of convexity and in particular its relation (or lack thereof) to physical processes is discussed in this context.

id: quant-ph/0505072
title: Creation of Stable Multipartite Entangled States in Spin Chains with Defects
authors: L. F. Santos
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505072
abstract: We show how defects in a spin chain described by the XXZ model may be used to generate entangled states, such as Bell and W states, and how to maintain them with high fidelity. In the presence of several excitations, we also discuss how the anisotropy of the system may be combined with defects to effectively assist in the creation of the desired states.

id: quant-ph/0505073
title: On demand single photon source using a nanoscale metal-insulator-semiconductor capacitor
authors: Binhui Hu, C. H. Yang, M. J. Yang
comments: 15 pages, including 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505073
abstract: We propose an on-demand single photon source for quantum cryptography using a metal-insulator-semiconductor quantum dot capacitor structure. The main component in the semiconductor is a p-doped quantum well, and the cylindrical gate under consideration is only nanometers in diameter. As in conventional metal-insulator-semiconductor capacitors, our system can also be biased into the inversion regime. However, due to the small gate area, at the onset of inversion there are only a few electrons residing in a quantum dot. In addition, because of the strong size quantization and large Coulomb energy, the number of electrons can be precisely controlled by the gate voltage. After holding just one electron in the inversion layer, the capacitor is quickly biased back to the flat band condition, and the subsequent radiative recombination across the bandgap results in single photon emission. We present numerical simulation results of a semiconductor heterojunction and discuss the merits of this single photon source.

id: quant-ph/0505074
title: Ultimate decoherence border for matter-wave interferometry
authors: Brahim Lamine, Rmy Herv, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 96 (2006) 050405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505074
abstract: Stochastic backgrounds of gravitational waves are intrinsic fluctuations of spacetime which lead to an unavoidable decoherence mechanism. This mechanism manifests itself as a degradation of the contrast of quantum interferences. It defines an ultimate decoherence border for matter-wave interferometry using larger and larger molecules. We give a quantitative characterization of this border in terms of figures involving the gravitational environment as well as the sensitivity of the interferometer to gravitational waves. The known level of gravitational noise determines the maximal size of the molecular probe for which interferences may remain observable. We discuss the relevance of this result in the context of ongoing progresses towards more and more sensitive matter-wave interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0505075
title: Weak measurements in quantum mechanics
authors: Lajos Diosi
comments: 14pp, written for Elsevier's Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505075
abstract: The article recapitulates the concept of weak measurement in its broader sense encapsulating the trade between asymptotically weak measurement precision and asymptotically large measurement statistics. Essential applications in time-continuous measurement and in postselected measurement are presented both in classical and in quantum contexts. We discuss the anomalous quantum weak value in postselected measurement. We concentrate on the general mathematical and physical aspects of weak measurements and we do not expand on their interpretation. Particular applications, even most familiar ones, are not subject of the article which was written for Elsevier's Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics.

id: quant-ph/0505076
title: Bloch theory of entangled photon generation in non-linear photonic crystals
authors: William T.M. Irvine, Michiel J.A. de Dood, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043815 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505076
abstract: We present a quantum mechanical description of parametric down-conversion and phase-matching of Bloch-waves in non-linear photonic crystals. We discuss the theory in one-dimensional Bragg structures giving a recipe for calculating the down-converted emission strength and direction. We exemplify the discussion by making explicit analytical predictions for the emission amplitude and direction from a one-dimensional structure that consists of alternating layers of Al0.4Ga0.6As and Air. We show that the emission is suitable for the extraction of polarization-entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0505077
title: Quantum measurement driven by spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: Masahiro Morikawa, Akika Nakamichi
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505077
abstract: The measurement process in quantum mechanics is usually described by the von Neumann projection postulate, which forms a basic constituent of the laws of quantum mechanics. Since this postulate requires the outside observer of the system, it is hard to apply quantum mechanics to the whole Universe. Therefore we propose that the quantum measurement process is actually a physical process associated with the ubiquitous mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking. Based on this proposal, we construct a quantum measurement model in which the von Neumann projection is described as the dynamical pro-coherence process. Furthermore, the classically distinguishable pointer parameter emerges as the c-number order parameter in the formalism of closed time-path quantum filed theory. We also discuss the precision of the measurement and the possible deduction of the Born probability postulate.

id: quant-ph/0505078
title: Production of squeezed state of single mode cavity field by the coupling of squeezed vacuum field reservoir in nonautonomous case
authors: Jun-Hong An, Shun-Jin Wang, Hong-Gang Luo, Cheng-Long Jia
comments: 5 pages, no figure, Revtex4
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21 (2004), 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505078
abstract: The dissipative and decoherence properties as well as the asymptotic behavior of the single mode electromagnetic field interacting with the time-dependent squeezed vacuum field reservoir are investigated in detail by using the algebraic dynamical method. With the help of the left and right representations of the relevant $hw(4)$ algebra, the dynamical symmetry of the nonautonomous master equation of the system is found to be $su(1,1)$. The unique equilibrium steady solution is found to be the squeezed state and any initial state of the system is proved to approach the unique squeezed state asymptotically. Thus the squeezed vacuum field reservoir is found to play the role of a squeezing mold of the cavity field.

id: quant-ph/0505079
title: Wave mechanics without gauge fixing
authors: A.M.Stewart
comments: 13 pages
journal: Journal of Molecular Structure (Theochem) 626 (2003) 47-51
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505079
abstract: By using the multipolar gauge it is shown that the quantum mechanics of an electrically charged particle moving in a prescribed classical electromagnetic field (wave mechanics) may be expressed in a manner that is gauge invariant, except that the only gauge functions that are allowable in a gauge transformation are those that consist of the sum of a function that depends only on the space coordinates and a term that is the product of a constant and the time coordinate. The multipolar gauge specifies the specific set of potentials that are best suited for use in the Schroedinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0505080
title: Quantum interferences from cross talk in $J=1/2\leftrightarrow J=1/2$ transitions
authors: Shubhrangshu Dasgupta
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505080
abstract: We consider the possibility of a control field opening up multiple pathways and thereby leading to new interference and coherence effects. We illustrate the idea by considering the $J=1/2\leftrightarrow J=1/2$ transition. As a result of the additional pathways, we show the possibilities of nonzero refractive index without absorption and gain without inversion. We explain these results in terms of the coherence produced by the opening of an extra pathway.

id: quant-ph/0505081
title: Toy Model for a Relational Formulation of Quantum Theory
authors: David Poulin
comments: References added, extended discussion
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 1189
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505081
abstract: In the absence of an external frame of reference physical degrees of freedom must describe relations between systems. Using a simple model, we investigate how such a relational quantum theory naturally arises by promoting reference systems to the status of dynamical entities. Our goal is to demonstrate using elementary quantum theory how any quantum mechanical experiment admits a purely relational description at a fundamental level, from which the original "non-relational" theory emerges in a semi-classical limit. According to this thesis, the non-relational theory is therefore an approximation of the fundamental relational theory. We propose four simple rules that can be used to translate an "orthodox" quantum mechanical description into a relational description, independent of an external spacial reference frame or clock. The techniques used to construct these relational theories are motivated by a Bayesian approach to quantum mechanics, and rely on the noiseless subsystem method of quantum information science used to protect quantum states against undesired noise. The relational theory naturally predicts a fundamental decoherence mechanism, so an arrow of time emerges from a time-symmetric theory. Moreover, there is no need for a "collapse of the wave packet" in our model: the probability interpretation is only applied to diagonal density operators. Finally, the physical states of the relational theory can be described in terms of "spin networks" introduced by Penrose as a combinatorial description of geometry, and widely studied in the loop formulation of quantum gravity. Thus, our simple bottom-up approach (starting from the semi-classical limit to derive the fully relational quantum theory) may offer interesting insights on the low energy limit of quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0505082
title: Entanglement from thermal black body radiation
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: major modifications, including: addition of a section on the effective induced interaction; modified statements on quasi-instantaneous RIE; changed titel and updated reference 17
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505082
abstract: Two non--interacting quantum systems which couple to a common environment with many degrees of freedom initially in thermal equilibrium can become entangled due to the indirect interaction mediated through this heat bath. I examine here the dynamics of reservoir induced entanglement for a heat bath consisting of a thermal electro--magnetic radiation field, such as black body radiation or the cosmic microwave background, and show how the effect can be understood as result of an effective induced interaction.

id: quant-ph/0505083
title: Measuring the purity of a qubit state: entanglement estimation with fully separable measurements
authors: E. Bagan, M. A. Ballester, R. Munoz-Tapia, O. Romero-Isart
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX, improved version
journal: Enlarged version of Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505083
abstract: Given a finite number $N$ of copies of a qubit state we compute the maximum fidelity that can be attained using joint-measurement protocols for estimating its purity. We prove that in the asymptotic $N\to\infty$ limit, separable-measurement protocols can be as efficient as the optimal joint-measurement one if classical communication is used. This in turn shows that the optimal estimation of the entanglement of a two-qubit state can also be achieved asymptotically with fully separable measurements. The relationship between our global Bayesian approach and the quantum Cramer-Rao bound is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505084
title: Purification of quantum trajectories
authors: Hans Maassen, Burkhard Kmmerer
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505084
abstract: We prove that the quantum trajectory of repeated perfect measurement on a finite quantum system either asymptotically purifies, or hits upon a family of `dark' subspaces, where the time evolution is unitary.

id: quant-ph/0505085
title: Chaos and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Salman Habib, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, Benjamin Greenbaum, Kurt Jacobs, Kosuke Shizume, Bala Sundaram
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures. Slightly revised version of invited talk to appear in Proceedings of the 16th Florida Workshop in Nonlinear Astronomy and Physics, dedicated to the memory of Henry Kandrup
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505085
abstract: The relationship between chaos and quantum mechanics has been somewhat uneasy -- even stormy, in the minds of some people. However, much of the confusion may stem from inappropriate comparisons using formal analyses. In contrast, our starting point here is that a complete dynamical description requires a full understanding of the evolution of measured systems, necessary to explain actual experimental results. This is of course true, both classically and quantum mechanically. Because the evolution of the physical state is now conditioned on measurement results, the dynamics of such systems is intrinsically nonlinear even at the level of distribution functions. Due to this feature, the physically more complete treatment reveals the existence of dynamical regimes -- such as chaos -- that have no direct counterpart in the linear (unobserved) case. Moreover, this treatment allows for understanding how an effective classical behavior can result from the dynamics of an observed quantum system, both at the level of trajectories as well as distribution functions. Finally, we have the striking prediction that time-series from measured quantum systems can be chaotic far from the classical regime, with Lyapunov exponents differing from their classical values. These predictions can be tested in next-generation experiments.

id: quant-ph/0505086
title: Casimir effect with rough metallic mirrors
authors: Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 16 pages
journal: Physical Review A 72, 012115 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505086
abstract: We calculate the second order roughness correction to the Casimir energy for two parallel metallic mirrors. Our results may also be applied to the plane-sphere geometry used in most experiments. The metallic mirrors are described by the plasma model, with arbitrary values for the plasma wavelength, the mirror separation and the roughness correlation length, with the roughness amplitude remaining the smallest length scale for perturbation theory to hold. From the analysis of the intracavity field fluctuations, we obtain the Casimir energy correction in terms of generalized reflection operators, which account for diffraction and polarization coupling in the scattering by the rough surfaces. We present simple analytical expressions for several limiting cases, as well as numerical results that allow for a reliable calculation of the roughness correction in real experiments. The correction is larger than the result of the Proximity Force Approximation, which is obtained from our theory as a limiting case (very smooth surfaces).

id: quant-ph/0505087
title: Entanglement production and decoherence-free subspace of two single-mode cavities embedded in a common environment
authors: Jun-Hong An, Shun-Jin Wang, Hong-Gang Luo
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, Revtex4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen 38 (2005), 3579-3593
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505087
abstract: A system consisting of two identical single-mode cavities coupled to a common environment is investigated within the framework of algebraic dynamics. Based on the left and right representations of the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra, the algebraic structure of the master equation is explored and exact analytical solutions of this system are obtained. It is shown that for such a system, the environment can produce entanglement in contrast to its commonly believed role of destroying entanglement. In addition, the collective zero-mode eigen solutions of the system are found to be free of decoherence against the dissipation of the environment. These decoherence-free states may be useful in quantum information and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0505088
title: A Note on Shared Randomness and Shared Entanglement in Communication
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky
comments: Stronger separation, minor changes and fixes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505088
abstract: We consider several models of 1-round classical and quantum communication, some of these models have not been defined before. We "almost separate" the models of simultaneous quantum message passing with shared entanglement and the model of simultaneous quantum message passing with shared randomness. We define a relation which can be efficiently exactly solved in the first model but cannot be solved efficiently, either exactly or in 0-error setup in the second model. In fact, our relation is exactly solvable even in a more restricted model of simultaneous classical message passing with shared entanglement. As our second contribution we strengthen a result by Yao that a "very short" protocol from the model of simultaneous classical message passing with shared randomness can be simulated in the model of simultaneous quantum message passing: for a boolean function f, QII(f) \in exp(O(RIIp(f))) log n. We show a similar result for protocols from a (stronger) model of 1-way classical message passing with shared randomness: QII(f) \in exp(O(RIp(f))) log n. We demonstrate a problem whose efficient solution in the model of simultaneous quantum message passing follows from our result but not from Yao's.

id: quant-ph/0505089
title: Quantum key distribution with trusted quantum relay
authors: H. Bechmann-Pasquinucci, A. Pasquinucci
comments: 13 pages, Latex, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505089
abstract: A trusted quantum relay is introduced to enable quantum key distribution links to form the basic legs in a quantum key distribution network. The idea is based on the well-known intercept/resend eavesdropping. The same scheme can be used to make quantum key distribution between several parties. No entanglement is required.

id: quant-ph/0505090
title: Quantum measurements and entropic bounds on information transmission
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures, uses qic.sty
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 6 (2006) 16-45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505090
abstract: While a positive operator valued measure gives the probabilities in a quantum measurement, an instrument gives both the probabilities and the a posteriori states. By interpreting the instrument as a quantum channel and by using the monotonicity theorem for relative entropies many bounds on the classical information extracted in a quantum measurement are obtained in a unified manner. In particular, it is shown that such bounds can all be stated as inequalities between mutual entropies. This approach based on channels gives rise to a unified picture of known and new bounds on the classical information (Holevo's, Shumacher-Westmoreland-Wootters', Hall's, Scutaru's bounds, a new upper bound and a new lower one). Some examples clarify the mutual relationships among the various bounds.

id: quant-ph/0505091
title: Deterministic Entanglement of Assistance and Monogamy Constraints
authors: Gilad Gour, David A. Meyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505091
abstract: Certain quantum information tasks require entanglement of assistance, namely a reduction of a tripartite entangled state to a bipartite entangled state via local measurements. We establish that 'concurrence of assistance' (CoA) identifies capabilities and limitations to producing pure bipartite entangled states from pure tripartite entangled states and prove that CoA is an entanglement monotone for $(2\times2\times n)$-dimensional pure states. Moreover, if the CoA for the pure tripartite state is at least as large as the concurrence of the desired pure bipartite state, then the former may be transformed to the latter via local operations and classical communication, and we calculate the maximum probability for this transformation when this condition is not met.

id: quant-ph/0505092
title: An entanglement-area law for general bosonic harmonic lattice systems
authors: M. Cramer, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio, J. Dreissig
comments: 15 pages (RevTeX), 5 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 012309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505092
abstract: We demonstrate that the entropy of entanglement and the distillable entanglement of regions with respect to the rest of a general harmonic lattice system in the ground or a thermal state scale at most as the boundary area of the region. This area law is rigorously proven to hold true in non-critical harmonic lattice system of arbitrary spatial dimension, for general finite-ranged harmonic interactions, regions of arbitrary shape and states of nonzero temperature. For nearest-neighbor interactions - corresponding to the Klein-Gordon case - upper and lower bounds to the degree of entanglement can be stated explicitly for arbitrarily shaped regions, generalizing the findings of [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 060503 (2005)]. These higher dimensional analogues of the analysis of block entropies in the one-dimensional case show that under general conditions, one can expect an area law for the entanglement in non-critical harmonic many-body systems. The proofs make use of methods from entanglement theory, as well as of results on matrix functions of block banded matrices. Disordered systems are also considered. We moreover construct a class of examples for which the two-point correlation length diverges, yet still an area law can be proven to hold. We finally consider the scaling of classical correlations in a classical harmonic system and relate it to a quantum lattice system with a modified interaction. We briefly comment on a general relationship between criticality and area laws for the entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0505093
title: Dimension-Independent Positive-Partial-Transpose Probability Ratios
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505093
abstract: We conduct quasi-Monte Carlo numerical integrations in two very high (80 and 79)-dimensional domains -- the parameter spaces of rank-9 and rank-8 qutrit-qutrit (9 x 9) density matrices. We, then, estimate the ratio of the probability -- in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt metric -- that a generic rank-9 density matrix has a positive partial transpose (PPT) to the probability that a generic rank-8 density matrix has a PPT (a precondition to separability/nonentanglement). Close examination of the numerical results generated -- despite certain large fluctuations -- indicates that the true ratio may, in fact, be 2. Our earlier investigation (eprint quant-ph/0410238) also yielded estimates close to 2 of the comparable ratios for qubit-qubit and qubit-qutrit pairs (the only two cases where the PPT condition fully implies separability). Therefore, it merits conjecturing (as Zyczkowski was the first to do) that such Hilbert-Schmidt (rank-NM/rank-(NM-1)) PPT probability ratios are 2 for all NM-dimensional quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0505094
title: Signatures of quantum behavior in single-qubit weak measurements
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Alexander N. Korotkov, Ari Mizel
comments: 5 pages, new references added, new paragraph on classical noninvasiveness after eq.(4)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 96, 200404 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505094
abstract: With the recent surge of interest in quantum computation, it has become very important to develop clear experimental tests for ``quantum behavior'' in a system. This issue has been addressed in the past in the form of the inequalities due to Bell and those due to Leggett and Garg. These inequalities concern the results of ideal projective measurements, however, which are experimentally difficult to perform in many proposed qubit designs, especially in many solid state qubit systems. Here, we show that weak continuous measurements, which are often practical to implement experimentally, can yield particularly clear signatures of quantum coherence, both in the measured correlation functions and in the measured power spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0505095
title: Clean Positive Operator Valued Measures
authors: F. Buscemi, G. M. D'Ariano, M. Keyl, P. Perinotti, R. Werner
comments: Minor changes. amsart 21 pages. Accepted for publication on J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 082109 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505095
abstract: In quantum mechanics the statistics of the outcomes of a measuring apparatus is described by a positive operator valued measure (POVM). A quantum channel transforms POVM's into POVM's, generally irreversibly, thus loosing some of the information retrieved from the measurement. This poses the problem of which POVM's are "undisturbed", namely they are not irreversibly connected to another POVM. We will call such POVM clean. In a sense, the clean POVM's would be "perfect", since they would not have any additional "extrinsical" noise. Quite unexpectedly, it turns out that such cleanness property is largely unrelated to the convex structure of POVM's, and there are clean POVM's that are not extremal and vice-versa. In this paper we solve the cleannes classification problem for number n of outcomes n<=d (d dimension of the Hilbert space), and we provide a a set of either necessary or sufficient conditions for n>d, along with an iff condition for the case of informationally complete POVM's for n=d^2.

id: quant-ph/0505096
title: Depolarisation cooling of an atomic cloud
authors: S. Hensler, A. Greiner, J. Stuhler, T. Pfau
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505096
abstract: We propose a cooling scheme based on depolarisation of a polarised cloud of trapped atoms. Similar to adiabatic demagnetisation, we suggest to use the coupling between the internal spin reservoir of the cloud and the external kinetic reservoir via dipolar relaxation to reduce the temperature of the cloud. By optical pumping one can cool the spin reservoir and force the cooling process. In case of a trapped gas of dipolar chromium atoms, we show that this cooling technique can be performed continuously and used to approach the critical phase space density for BEC

id: quant-ph/0505097
title: Unmodulated spin chains as universal quantum wires
authors: Antoni Wojcik, Tomasz Luczak, Pawel Kurzynski, Andrzej Grudka, Tomasz Gdala, Malgorzata Bednarska
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 034303 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505097
abstract: We study a quantum state transfer between two qubits interacting with the ends of a quantum wire consisting of linearly arranged spins coupled by an excitation conserving, time-independent Hamiltonian. We show that if we control the coupling between the source and the destination qubits and the ends of the wire, the evolution of the system can lead to an almost perfect transfer even in the case in which all nearest-neighbour couplings between the internal spins of the wire are equal.

id: quant-ph/0505098
title: "All-versus-nothing" nonlocality test of quantum mechanics by two-photon hyperentanglement
authors: C. Cinelli, M. Barbieri, R. Perris, P. Mataloni, F. De Martini
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 240405 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505098
abstract: We report the experimental realization and the characterization of polarization and momentum hyperentangled two photon states, generated by a new parametric source of correlated photon pairs. By adoption of these states an "all versus nothing" test of quantum mechanics was performed. The two photon hyperentangled states are expected to find at an increasing rate a widespread application in state engineering and quantum information. PACS: 03.65.Ud, 03.67.Mn, 42.65. Lm

id: quant-ph/0505099
title: Tunneling out of a time-dependent well
authors: Tobias Kramer, Marcos Moshinsky
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. vol. 38 pp. 5993-6003 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505099
abstract: Solutions to explicit time-dependent problems in quantum mechanics are rare. In fact, all known solutions are coupled to specific properties of the Hamiltonian and may be divided into two categories: One class consists of time-dependent Hamiltonians which are not higher than quadratic in the position operator, like i.e the driven harmonic oscillator with time-dependent frequency. The second class is related to the existence of additional invariants in the Hamiltonian, which can be used to map the solution of the time-dependent problem to that of a related time-independent one. In this article we discuss and develop analytic methods for solving time-dependent tunneling problems, which cannot be addressed by using quadratic Hamiltonians. Specifically, we give an analytic solution to the problem of tunneling from an attractive time-dependent potential which is embedded in a long-range repulsive potential. Recent progress in atomic physics makes it possible to observe experimentally time-dependent phenomena and record the probability distribution over a long range of time. Of special interest is the observation of macroscopical quantum-tunneling phenomena in Bose-Einstein condensates with time-dependent trapping potentials. We apply our model to such a case in the last section.

id: quant-ph/0505100
title: Addendum to "Sufficient conditions for three-particle entanglement and their tests in recent experiments"
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried Guehne, Michael Seevinck, Jos Uffink
comments: Two pages, no figures, revtex4; minor changes before publication
journal: Physical Review A 72, 014101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505100
abstract: A recent paper [M. Seevinck and J. Uffink, Phys. Rev. A 65, 012107 (2002)] presented a bound for the three-qubit Mermin inequality such that the violation of this bound indicates genuine three-qubit entanglement. We show that this bound can be improved for a specific choice of observables. In particular, if spin observables corresponding to orthogonal directions are measured at the qubits (e.g., X and Y spin coordinates) then the bound is the same as the bound for states with a local hidden variable model. As a consequence, it can straightforwardly be shown that in the experiment described by J.-W. Pan et al. [Nature 403, 515 (2000)] genuine three-qubit entanglement was detected.

id: quant-ph/0505101
title: Dynamics of Entanglement for One-Dimensional Spin Systems in an External Time-Dependent Magnetic Field
authors: Zhen Huang, Sabre Kais
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505101
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement for the XY-model, one-dimensional spin systems coupled through nearest neighbor exchange interaction and subject to an external time-dependent magnetic field. Using the two-site density matrix, we calculate the time-dependent entanglement of formation between nearest neighbor qubits. We investigate the effect of varying the temperature, the anisotropy parameter and the external time-dependent magnetic field on the entanglement. We have found that the entanglement can be localized between nearest neighbor qubits for certain values of the external time-dependent magnetic field. Moreover, as known for the magnetization of this model, the entanglement shows nonergodic behavior, it does not approach its equilibrium value at the infinite time limit.

id: quant-ph/0505102
title: Scattering length determination from trapped pairs of atoms
authors: S. Shresta, E. Tiesinga, C. J. Williams
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505102
abstract: A method is described for estimating effective scattering lengths via spectroscopy on a trapped pair of atoms. The method relies on the phenomena that the energy levels of two atoms in a harmonic trap are shifted by their collisional interaction. The amount of shift depends on the strength of the interaction (i.e. scattering length). By combining the spectra of the trap state energy levels and a suitable model for the effective scattering length, an estimate for the latter may be inferred. Two practical methods for measuring the trap spectra are proposed and illustrated in examples. The accuracy of the scheme is analyzed and requirements on measurement precision are given.

id: quant-ph/0505103
title: Optical analog of Rabi oscillation suppression due to atomic motion
authors: J. G. Muga, B. Navarro
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505103
abstract: The Rabi oscillations of a two-level atom illuminated by a laser on resonance with the atomic transition may be suppressed by the atomic motion through averaging or filtering mechanisms. The optical analogs of these velocity effects are described. The two atomic levels correspond in the optical analogy to orthogonal polarizations of light and the Rabi oscillations to polarization oscillations in a medium which is optically active, naturally or due to a magnetic field. In the later case, the two orthogonal polarizations could be selected by choosing the orientation of the magnetic field, and one of them be filtered out. It is argued that the time-dependent optical polarization oscillations or their suppression are observable with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0505104
title: Equations of Motion with Multiple Proper Time: A New Interpretation of Basic Quantum Physics
authors: xiaodong Chen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505104
abstract: Equations of motion for single particle under two proper time model and three proper time model have been proposed and analyzed. The motions of particle are derived from pure classical method but they exhibit the same properties of quantum physics: the quantum wave equation, de Broglie equations, uncertainty relation, statistical result of quantum wave-function. This shows us a possible new way to interpret quantum physics. We will also prove that physics with multiple proper time does not cause causality problem.

id: quant-ph/0505105
title: Remote state preparation without entangled channels
authors: Wan-Qing Niu, An Min Wang, Ningbo Zhao, Xiaodong Yang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505105
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn

id: quant-ph/0505106
title: Algebraic treatments of the problems of the spin-1/2 particles in the one and two-dimensional geometry: a systematic study
authors: Ramazan Koc, Hayriye Tutunculer, Mehmet Koca, Eser Olgar
comments: Annals of Physics (2005) to be published
journal: Annals of Phys. 319 (2005) 333-347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505106
abstract: We consider solutions of the 2x2 matrix Hamiltonians of the physical systems within the context of the su(2) and su(1,1) Lie algebra. Our technique is relatively simple when compared with the others and treats those Hamiltonians which can be treated in a unified framework of the $% Sp(4,R)$ algebra. The systematic study presented here reproduces a number of earlier results in a natural way as well as leads to a novel findings. Possible generalizations of the method are also suggested.

id: quant-ph/0505107
title: A scheme for entanglement extraction from a solid
authors: G. De Chiara, C. Brukner, R. Fazio, G. M. Palma, V. Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: New. J. Phys. 8, 95 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505107
abstract: Some thermodynamical properties of solids, such as heat capacity and magnetic susceptibility, have recently been shown to be linked to the amount of entanglement in a solid. However this entanglement may appear a mere mathematical artifact of the typical symmetrization procedure of many-body wave function in solid state physics. Here we show that this entanglement is physical demonstrating the principles of its extraction from a typical solid state system by scattering two particles off the system. Moreover we show how to simulate this process using present-day optical lattices technology. This demonstrates not only that entanglement exists in solids but also that it can be used for quantum information processing or for test of Bell's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0505108
title: Simple security proof of quantum key distribution via uncertainty principle
authors: Masato Koashi
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505108
abstract: We present an approach to the unconditional security of quantum key distribution protocols based on the uncertainty principle. The approach applies to every case that has been treated via the argument by Shor and Preskill, and relieve them from the constraints of finding quantum error correcting codes. It can also treat the cases with uncharacterized apparatuses. We derive a secure key rate for the Bennett-Brassard-1984 protocol with an arbitrary source characterized only by a single parameter representing the basis dependence.

id: quant-ph/0505109
title: Concurrence classes for general pure multipartite states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 8667-8679
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505109
abstract: We propose concurrence classes for general pure multipartite states based on an orthogonal complement of a positive operator valued measure on quantum phase. In particular, we construct $W^{m}$ class, $GHZ^{m}$, and $GHZ^{m-1}$ class concurrences for general pure $m$-partite states. We give explicit expressions for $W^{3}$ and $GHZ^{3}$ class concurrences for general pure three-partite states and for $W^{4}$, $GHZ^{4}$, and $GHZ^{3}$ class concurrences for general pure four-partite states.

id: quant-ph/0505110
title: On quantum non-signalling boxes
authors: M. Piani, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012305 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505110
abstract: A classical non-signalling (or causal) box is an operation on classical bipartite input with classical bipartite output such that no signal can be sent from a party to the other through the use of the box. The quantum counterpart of such boxes, i.e. completely positive trace-preserving maps on bipartite states, though studied in literature, have been investigated less intensively than classical boxes. We present here some results and remarks about such maps. In particular, we analyze: the relations among properties as causality, non-locality and entanglement; the connection between causal and entanglement breaking maps; the characterization of causal maps in terms of the classification of states with fixed reductions. We also provide new proofs of the fact that every non-product unitary transformation is not causal, as well as for the equivalence of the so-called semicausality and semilocalizability properties.

id: quant-ph/0505111
title: Precision lifetime measurements of a single trapped ion with ultrafast laser pulses
authors: D. L. Moehring, B. B. Blinov, D. W. Gidley, R. N. Kohn Jr., M. J. Madsen, T. D. Sanderson, R. S. Vallery, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages with 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 023413 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505111
abstract: We report precision measurements of the excited state lifetime of the $5p$ $^2P_{1/2}$ and $5p$ $^2P_{3/2}$ levels of a single trapped Cd$^+$ ion. The ion is excited with picosecond laser pulses from a mode-locked laser and the distribution of arrival times of spontaneously emitted photons is recorded. The resulting lifetimes are 3.148 $\pm$ 0.011 ns and 2.647 $\pm$ 0.010 ns for $^2P_{1/2}$ and $^2P_{3/2}$ respectively. With a total uncertainty of under 0.4%, these are among the most precise measurements of any atomic state lifetimes to date.

id: quant-ph/0505112
title: Quantum methods for clock synchronization: Beating the standard quantum limit without entanglement
authors: Mark de Burgh, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 042301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505112
abstract: We introduce methods for clock synchronization that make use of the adiabatic exchange of nondegenerate two-level quantum systems: ticking qubits. Schemes involving the exchange of N independent qubits with frequency $\omega$ give a synchronization accuracy that scales as $(\omega\sqrt{N})^{-1}$, i.e., as the standard quantum limit. We introduce a protocol that makes use of N coherent exchanges of a single qubit at frequency $\omega$, leading to an accuracy that scales as $(\omega N)^{-1}\log N$. This protocol beats the standard quantum limit without the use of entanglement, and we argue that this scaling is the fundamental limit for clock synchronization allowed by quantum mechanics. We analyse the performance of these protocols when used with a lossy channel.

id: quant-ph/0505113
title: Some properties of $$ - solitons
authors: V. V. Makhro, I. G. Makhro
comments: 3 pp. in Russian
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505113
abstract: We investigate some dynamical parameters of $\lambda$ - solitons which arises in the family of implicit difference schemes for the diffusion equation with fractional difference operator $ \frac{{\partial ^2}}{{\partial x^2}}$ and imaginary diffusion coefficient. We suppose that such schemes may correspond to fractional diffusion equation with imaginary diffusion coefficient.

id: quant-ph/0505114
title: Localization and Pattern Formation in Quantum Physics. I. Phenomena of Localization
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: LaTeX2e, spie.cls, 13 pages, 15 figures, submitted to Proc. of SPIE Meeting, The Nature of Light: What is a Photon? Optics & Photonics, SP200, San Diego, CA, July-August, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505114
abstract: In these two related parts we present a set of methods, analytical and numerical, which can illuminate the behaviour of quantum system, especially in the complex systems. The key points demonstrating advantages of this approach are: (i) effects of localization of possible quantum states, more proper than "gaussian-like states"; (ii) effects of non-perturbative multiscales which cannot be calculated by means of perturbation approaches; (iii) effects of formation of complex quantum patterns from localized modes or classification and possible control of the full zoo of quantum states, including (meta) stable localized patterns (waveletons). We'll consider calculations of Wigner functions as the solution of Wigner-Moyal-von Neumann equation(s) corresponding to polynomial Hamiltonians. Modeling demonstrates the appearance of (meta) stable patterns generated by high-localized (coherent) structures or entangled/chaotic behaviour. We can control the type of behaviour on the level of reduced algebraical variational system. At the end we presented the qualitative definition of the Quantum Objects in comparison with their Classical Counterparts, which natural domain of definition is the category of multiscale/multiresolution decompositions according to the action of internal/hidden symmetry of the proper realization of scales of functional spaces. It gives rational natural explanation of such pure quantum effects as ``self-interaction''(self-interference) and instantaneous quantum interaction.

id: quant-ph/0505115
title: Localization and Pattern Formation in Quantum Physics. II. Waveletons in Quantum Ensembles
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: LaTeX2e, spie.cls, 13 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Proc. of SPIE Meeting, The Nature of Light: What is a Photon? Optics & Photonics, SP200, San Diego, CA, July-August, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505115
abstract: In this second part we present a set of methods, analytical and numerical, which can describe behaviour in (non) equilibrium ensembles, both classical and quantum, especially in the complex systems, where the standard approaches cannot be applied. The key points demonstrating advantages of this approach are: (i) effects of localization of possible quantum states; (ii) effects of non-perturbative multiscales which cannot be calculated by means of perturbation approaches; (iii) effects of formation of complex/collective quantum patterns from localized modes and classification and possible control of the full zoo of quantum states, including (meta) stable localized patterns (waveletons). We demonstrate the appearance of nontrivial localized (meta) stable states/patterns in a number of collective models covered by the (quantum)/(master) hierarchy of Wigner-von Neumann-Moyal-Lindblad equations, which are the result of ``wignerization'' procedure (Weyl-Wigner-Moyal quantization) of classical BBGKY kinetic hierarchy, and present the explicit constructions for exact analytical/numerical computations (fast convergent variational-wavelet representation). Numerical modeling shows the creation of different internal structures from localized modes, which are related to the localized (meta) stable patterns (waveletons), entangled ensembles (with subsequent decoherence) and/or chaotic-like type of behaviour.

id: quant-ph/0505116
title: Relaxation Optimized Transfer of Spin Order in Ising Spin Chains
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Steffen J. Glaser, Navin Khaneja
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 72, 062320, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505116
abstract: In this manuscript, we present relaxation optimized methods for transfer of bilinear spin correlations along Ising spin chains. These relaxation optimized methods can be used as a building block for transfer of polarization between distant spins on a spin chain. Compared to standard techniques, significant reduction in relaxation losses is achieved by these optimized methods when transverse relaxation rates are much larger than the longitudinal relaxation rates and comparable to couplings between spins. We derive an upper bound on the efficiency of transfer of spin order along a chain of spins in the presence of relaxation and show that this bound can be approached by relaxation optimized pulse sequences presented in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0505117
title: QED of lossy cavities: operator and quantum-state input-output relations
authors: M. Khanbekyan, L. Kn?ll, D.-G. Welsch, A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: 17 pages, 1 eps figure, typeset using RevTex4; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 053813 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505117
abstract: Within the framework of exact quantization of the electromagnetic field in dispersing and absorbing media the input-output problem of a high-$Q$ cavity is studied, with special emphasis on the absorption losses in the coupling mirror. As expected, the cavity modes are found to obey quantum Langevin equations, which could be also obtained from quantum noise theories, by appropriately coupling the cavity modes to dissipative systems, including the effect of the mirror-assisted absorption losses. On the contrary, the operator input-output relations obtained in this way would be incomplete in general, as the exact calculation shows. On the basis of the operator input-output relations the problem of extracting the quantum state of an initially excited cavity mode is studied and input-output relations for the $s$-parameterized phase-space function are derived, with special emphasis on the relation between the Wigner functions of the quantum states of the outgoing field and the cavity field.

id: quant-ph/0505118
title: Continuous variable private quantum channel
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: upper bound on information Eve can get was revised and substantially lowered (chapter IV), part of chapter III rewritten, several typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505118
abstract: In this paper we introduce the concept of quantum private channel within the continuous variables framework (CVPQC) and investigate its properties. In terms of CVPQC we naturally define a "maximally" mixed state in phase space together with its explicit construction and show that for increasing number of encryption operations (which sets the length of a shared key between Alice and Bob) the encrypted state is arbitrarily close to the maximally mixed state in the sense of the Hilbert-Schmidt distance. We bring the exact solution for the distance dependence and give also a rough estimate of the necessary number of bits of the shared secret key (i.e. how much classical resources are needed for an approximate encryption of a generally unknown continuous-variable state). The definition of the CVPQC is analyzed from the Holevo bound point of view which determines an upper bound of information about an incoming state an eavesdropper is able to get from his optimal measurement.

id: quant-ph/0505119
title: Entropy exchange and entanglement in the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: E. Boukobza, D. J. Tannor
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505119
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model is the simplest fully quantum model that describes the interaction between light and matter. We extend a previous analysis by Phoenix and Knight (S. J. D. Phoenix, P. L. Knight, Annals of Physics 186, 381). of the JCM by considering mixed states of both the light and matter. We present examples of qualitatively different entropic correlations. In particular, we explore the regime of entropy exchange between light and matter, i.e. where the rate of change of the two are anti-correlated. This behavior contrasts with the case of pure light-matter states in which the rate of change of the two entropies are positively correlated and in fact identical. We give an analytical derivation of the anti-correlation phenomenon and discuss the regime of its validity. Finally, we show a strong correlation between the region of the Bloch sphere characterized by entropy exchange and that characterized by minimal entanglement as measured by the negative eigenvalues of the partially transposed density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0505120
title: How to play two-players restricted quantum games with 10 cards
authors: Diederik Aerts, Haroun Amira, Bart D'Hooghe, Andrzej Posiewnik, Jaroslaw Pykacz
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 47, 61-68, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505120
abstract: We show that it is perfectly possible to play 'restricted' two-players, two-strategies quantum games proposed originally by Marinatto and Weber having as the only equipment a pack of 10 cards. The 'quantum board' of such a model of these quantum games is an extreme simplification of 'macroscopic quantum machines' proposed by one of the authors in numerous papers that allow to simulate by macroscopic means various experiments performed on two entangled quantum objects

id: quant-ph/0505121
title: Are all maximally entangled states pure?
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Proof of theorem 3 corrected e new results concerning the asymptotic regime included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 040303(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505121
abstract: We study if all maximally entangled states are pure through several entanglement monotones. In the bipartite case, we find that the same conditions which lead to the uniqueness of the entropy of entanglement as a measure of entanglement, exclude the existence of maximally mixed entangled states. In the multipartite scenario, our conclusions allow us to generalize the idea of monogamy of entanglement: we establish the \textit{polygamy of entanglement}, expressing that if a general state is maximally entangled with respect to some kind of multipartite entanglement, then it is necessarily factorized of any other system.

id: quant-ph/0505122
title: Quantum computation via translation-invariant operations on a chain of qubits
authors: Robert Raussendorf
comments: Comment after Eq. (2) inserted, journal version
journal: Physical Review A 72, 052301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505122
abstract: A scheme of universal quantum computation on a chain of qubits is described that does not require local control. All the required operations, an Ising-type interaction and spatially uniform simultaneous one-qubit gates, are translation-invariant.

id: quant-ph/0505123
title: Mapping the Schrodinger picture of open quantum dynamics
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 10 pages, 3 Figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 012106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505123
abstract: For systems described by finite matrices, an affine form is developed for the maps that describe evolution of density matrices for a quantum system that interacts with another. This is established directly from the Heisenberg picture. It separates elements that depend only on the dynamics from those that depend on the state of the two systems. While the equivalent linear map is generally not completely positive, the homogeneous part of the affine maps is, and is shown to be composed of multiplication operations that come simply from the Hamiltonian for the larger system. The inhomogeneous part is shown to be zero if and only if the map does not increase the trace of the square of any density matrix. Properties are worked out in detail for two-qubit examples.

id: quant-ph/0505124
title: Qubit entanglement in multimagnon states
authors: J.S. Pratt
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505124
abstract: The qubit entanglement induced by quasiparticle excitations in the Heisenberg spin chain and its relationship to the Bethe Ansatz structure of the eigenmodes is studied. A phenomenon called entanglement quenching, which suppresses eigenstate entanglement, is described and shown to be mediated by Goldstone magnons. Scattering states are characterized by short-range entanglement, and never exhibit entanglement at the longest range. In contrast, bound states have complex long-range entanglement structures.

id: quant-ph/0505125
title: Efficient Parity Encoded Optical Quantum Computing
authors: Alexei Gilchrist, A.J.F. Hayes, T.C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505125
abstract: We present a linear optics quantum computation scheme with a greatly reduced cost in resources compared to KLM. The scheme makes use of elements from cluster state computation and achieves comparable resource usage to those schemes while retaining the circuit based approach of KLM.

id: quant-ph/0505126
title: Quantum Malware
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. v4: Version to be published in Quantum Information Processing. See this http URL for a New Scientist cover story on this work
journal: Quant. Info. Processing 5, 69 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505126
abstract: When quantum communication networks proliferate they will likely be subject to a new type of attack: by hackers, virus makers, and other malicious intruders. Here we introduce the concept of "quantum malware" to describe such human-made intrusions. We offer a simple solution for storage of quantum information in a manner which protects quantum networks from quantum malware. This solution involves swapping the quantum information at random times between the network and isolated, distributed ancillas. It applies to arbitrary attack types, provided the protective operations are themselves not compromised.

id: quant-ph/0505127
title: Vacuum force on an atom in a magnetodielectric cavity
authors: M. S. Tomas
comments: RevTeX 4, 4 pages, 1 eps figure, corrected and slightly revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 034104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505127
abstract: We demonstrate that, according to a recently suggested Lorentz-force approach to the Casimir effect, the vacuum force on an atom embedded in a material cavity differs substantially from the force on an atom of the cavity medium. The force on an embedded atom is of the familiar (van der Waals and Casimir-Polder) type, however, more strongly modified by the cavity medium than usually considered. The force on an atom of the cavity medium is of the medium-assisted force type with rather unusual properties, as demonstrated very recently [M. S. Tomas, Phys. Rev. A 71, 060101(R) (2005)]. This implies similar properties of the vacuum force between two atoms in a medium.

id: quant-ph/0505128
title: A constructive algorithm for the Cartan decomposition of SU(2^N)
authors: Henrique N. S Earp, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 15 pages, no figures, matlab file at this http URL
journal: Jour. Math. Phys. 46, 1 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505128
abstract: We present an explicit numerical method to obtain the Cartan-Khaneja-Glaser decomposition of a general element G of SU(2^N) in terms of its `Cartan' and `non-Cartan' components. This effectively factors G in terms of group elements that belong in SU(2^n) with n<N, a procedure that can be iterated down to n=2. We show that every step reduces to solving the zeros of a matrix polynomial, obtained by truncation of the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff formula, numerically. All computational tasks involved are straightforward and the overall truncation errors are well under control.

id: quant-ph/0505129
title: Characterization of quantum computable decision problems by state discrimination
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 9 pages
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 810. Quantum Theory. Reconsideration of Foundations--3, ed. by Guillaume Adenier, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov and Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen (American Institute of Physics, Melville, NY, 2006), pp. 271-279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505129
abstract: One advantage of quantum algorithms over classical computation is the possibility to spread out, process, analyse and extract information in multipartite configurations in coherent superpositions of classical states. This will be discussed in terms of quantum state identification problems based on a proper partitioning of mutually orthogonal sets of states. The question arises whether or not it is possible to encode equibalanced decision problems into quantum systems, so that a single invocation of a filter used for state discrimination suffices to obtain the result.

id: quant-ph/0505130
title: Observation of triply coincident nonlinearities in periodically poled KTiOPO4
authors: Raphael C. Pooser, Olivier Pfister
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Opt. Lett. 30, 2635 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505130
abstract: We report the simultaneous quasi-phase-matching of all three possible nonlinearities for propagation along the X axis of periodocally poled (PP) KTiOPO4 (KTP) for second-harmonic generation of 745 nm pulsed light from 1490nm subpicosecond pulses in a PPKTP crystal with a 45.65 micrometer poling period. This confirms the recent Sellmeier fits of KTP by K. Kato and E. Takaoka [Appl. Opt. 41, 5040 (2002)]. Such coincident nonlinearities are of importance for realizing compact sources of multipartite continuous-variable entanglement [Pfister et al., Phys. Rev. A 70, 020302 (2004)] and we propose a new simpler method for entangling four fields, based on this triple coincidence.

id: quant-ph/0505131
title: Bright tripartite entanglement in triply concurrent parametric oscillation
authors: A. S. Bradley, M. K. Olsen, O. Pfister, R. C. Pooser
comments: title change, expanded intro and discussion of experimental aspects, 1 new figure. Conclusions unaltered
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 053805 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505131
abstract: We show that a novel optical parametric oscillator, based on concurrent $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinearities, can produce, above threshold, bright output beams of macroscopic intensities which exhibit strong tripartite continuous-variable entanglement. We also show that there are {\em two} ways that the system can exhibit a new three-mode form of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox, and calculate the extra-cavity fluctuation spectra that may be measured to verify our predictions.

id: quant-ph/0505132
title: Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 4 pages, no figures; This paper is an expanded, self-contained version of QBC4 presented in quant-ph/0305143. It is the basis of talks to be presented at the University of Pavia, Italy on May 23, 2005 and Nottingham University, England on May 25, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505132
abstract: The ``impossibility proof'' on unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is examined. It is shown that the possibility of juxtaposing quantum and classical randomness has not been properly taken into account. A specific protocol that beats entanglement cheating with entanglement is proven to be unconditionally secure.

id: quant-ph/0505133
title: Comment on 'Quantum inversion of cold atoms in a microcavity: spatial dependence'
authors: Thierry Bastin, John Martin
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 36, 4201-4203 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505133
abstract: In a recent work, Abdel-Aty and Obada [2002 J. Phys. B 35 807-813] analyzed the quantum inversion of cold atoms in a microcavity, the motion of the atoms being described quantum mechanically. Two-level atoms were assumed to interact with a single mode of the cavity, and the off-resonance case was considered (namely the atomic transition frequency is detuned from the single mode cavity frequency). We demonstrate in this paper that this case is incorrectly treated by these authors and we question therefore their conclusions.

id: quant-ph/0505134
title: Reply to 'Comment on "Detuning effects in the one-photon mazer" '
authors: Thierry Bastin, John Martin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 047802 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505134
abstract: We refute in this Reply the criticisms made by M. Abdel-Aty [Phys. Rev. A 70, 047801 (2004)]. We show that none of them are founded and we demonstrate very explicitly what is wrong in the arguments developed by this author.

id: quant-ph/0505135
title: Quantum phase-space description of light polarization
authors: A. B. Klimov, J. Delgado, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 17 pages, 4 eps color figures
journal: Optics Communications 258, 210--218 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505135
abstract: We present a method to characterize the polarization state of a light field in the continuous-variable regime. Instead of using the abstract formalism of SU(2) quasidistributions, we model polarization in the classical spirit by superposing two harmonic oscillators of the same angular frequency along two orthogonal axes. By describing each oscillator by a $s$-parametrized quasidistribution, we derive in a consistent way the final function for the polarization. We compare with previous approaches and discuss how this formalism works in some relevant examples.

id: quant-ph/0505136
title: Calculation of the Casimir Force between Similar and Dissimilar Metal Plates at Finite Temperature
authors: V. S. Bentsen, R. Herikstad, S. Skriudalen, I. Brevik, J. S. H?ye
comments: 23 latex pages, 12 figures. Introductory section expanded, 4 new references. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys.A38:9575-9588,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505136
abstract: The Casimir pressure is calculated between parallel metal plates, containing the materials Au, Cu, or Al. Our motivation for making this calculation is the need of comparing theoretical predictions, based on the Lifshitz formula, with experiments that are becoming gradually more accurate. In particular, the finite temperature correction is considered, in view of the recent discussion in the literature on this point. A special attention is given to the case where the difference between the Casimir pressures at two different temperatures, T=300 K and T=350 K, is involved. This seems to be a case that will be experimentally attainable in the near future, and it will be a critical test of the temperature correction.

id: quant-ph/0505137
title: Distillation Protocols that Involve Local Distinguishing: Composing Upper and Lower Bounds on Locally Accessible Information
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, Revtex4; v2: important additions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052332 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505137
abstract: We find a universal lower bound on locally accessible information for arbitrary bipartite quantum ensembles, when one of the parties is two-dimensional. In higher dimensions and in higher number of parties, the lower bound is on accessible information by separable operations. We show that for any given density matrix (of arbitrary number of parties and dimensions), there exists an ensemble, the ''Scrooge ensemble'', which averages to the given density matrix and whose locally accessible information saturates the lower bound. Moreover, we use this lower bound along with a previously obtained upper bound to obtain bounds on the yield of singlets in distillation protocols that involve local distinguishing.

id: quant-ph/0505138
title: A triangle of dualities: reversibly decomposable quantum channels, source-channel duality, and time reversal
authors: I. Devetak
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505138
abstract: Two quantum information processing protocols are said to be dual under resource reversal if the resources consumed (generated) in one protocol are generated (consumed) in the other. Previously known examples include the duality between entanglement concentration and dilution, and the duality between coherent versions of teleportation and super-dense coding. A quantum feedback channel is an isometry from a system belonging to Alice to a system shared between Alice and Bob. We show that such a resource may be reversibly decomposed into a perfect quantum channel and pure entanglement, generalizing both of the above examples. The dual protocols responsible for this decomposition are the ``feedback father'' (FF) protocol and the ``fully quantum reverse Shannon'' (FQRS) protocol. Moreover, the ``fully quantum Slepian-Wolf'' protocol (FQSW), a generalization of the recently discovered ``quantum state merging'', is related to FF by source-channel duality, and to FQRS by time reversal duality, thus forming a triangle of dualities. The source-channel duality is identified as the origin of the previously poorly understood ``mother-father'' duality. Due to a symmetry breaking, the dualities extend only partially to classical information theory.

id: quant-ph/0505139
title: Optimal photons for quantum information processing
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052332 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505139
abstract: Photonic quantum information processing schemes, such as linear optics quantum computing, and other experiments relying on single-photon interference, inherently require complete photon indistinguishability to enable the desired photonic interactions to take place. Mode-mismatch is the dominant cause of photon distinguishability in optical circuits. Here we study the effects of photon wave-packet shape on tolerance against the effects of mode-mismatch in linear optical circuits, and show that Gaussian distributed photons with large bandwidth are optimal. The result is general and holds for arbitrary linear optical circuits, including ones which allow for post-selection and classical feed-forward.

id: quant-ph/0505140
title: Detuning effects on the mazer
authors: John Martin, Thierry Bastin
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physicalia Magazine 25, 141-148 (2003), added references
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505140
abstract: A short review of the theoretical studies of the cold atom micromaser (mazer) is presented. Existing models are then improved by considering more general working conditions. Especially, the mazer physics is investigated in the situation where a detuning between the cavity mode and the atomic transition frequency is present. Interesting new effects are pointed out. Especially, it is shown that the cavity may slow down or speed up the atoms according to the sign of the detuning and that the induced emission process may be completely blocked by use of a positive detuning. The transmission probability of ultracold atoms through a micromaser is also studied and we generalize previous results established in the resonant case. In particular, it is shown that the velocity selection of cold atoms passing through the micromaser can be very easily tuned and enhanced using a nonresonant field inside the cavity. This manuscript is a summary of Martin's master thesis and articles [Phys. Rev. A 67, 053804 (2003)] and [Eur. Phys. J. D 29, 133 (2004)].

id: quant-ph/0505141
title: A time representation
authors: Lucas Lamata, Juan Leon
comments: 15 pages, 6 eps figures, typos corrected, reference added, published version
journal: Concepts Phys. 2 (2005) 49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505141
abstract: The paper contains a proposal for an energy and time representation. We construct modes that correspond to fuzzy distributions around discrete values of energy or time. The modes form an orthogonal and complete set in the space of square integrable functions. Energy and time are self adjoint in the space spanned by the modes. The widths of the modes are analyzed as well as their energy-time uncertainty relations. The lower uncertainty attainable for the modes is shown. We also show times of arrival for massless particles.

id: quant-ph/0505142
title: Aligning Spatial Frames Through Quantum Channels
authors: E. Bagan, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 4, 5 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505142
abstract: We review the optimal protocols for aligning spatial frames using quantum systems. The communication problem addressed here concerns a type of information that cannot be digitalized. Asher Peres referred to it as "unspeakable information". We comment on his contribution to this subject and give a brief account of his scientific interaction with the authors.

id: quant-ph/0505143
title: Classical mechanics without determinism
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 11 pages, revised, to appear in Found. Phys. Lett
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.19:553-566,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505143
abstract: Classical statistical particle mechanics in the configuration space can be represented by a nonlinear Schrodinger equation. Even without assuming the existence of deterministic particle trajectories, the resulting quantum-like statistical interpretation is sufficient to predict all measurable results of classical mechanics. In the classical case, the wave function that satisfies a linear equation is positive, which is the main source of the fundamental difference between classical and quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0505144
title: Cotangent bundle quantization: Entangling of metric and magnetic field
authors: M.V.Karasev, T.A.Osborn
comments: Latex, 38 pages, 5 figures, minor corrections
journal: J.Phys.A: Math.Gen., 2005, v.38, 8549-8578
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505144
abstract: For manifolds $\cal M$ of noncompact type endowed with an affine connection (for example, the Levi-Civita connection) and a closed 2-form (magnetic field) we define a Hilbert algebra structure in the space $L^2(T^*\cal M)$ and construct an irreducible representation of this algebra in $L^2(\cal M)$. This algebra is automatically extended to polynomial in momenta functions and distributions. Under some natural conditions this algebra is unique. The non-commutative product over $T^*\cal M$ is given by an explicit integral formula. This product is exact (not formal) and is expressed in invariant geometrical terms. Our analysis reveals this product has a front, which is described in terms of geodesic triangles in $\cal M$. The quantization of $\delta$-functions induces a family of symplectic reflections in $T^*\cal M$ and generates a magneto-geodesic connection $\Gamma$ on $T^*\cal M$. This symplectic connection entangles, on the phase space level, the original affine structure on $\cal M$ and the magnetic field. In the classical approximation, the $\hbar^2$-part of the quantum product contains the Ricci curvature of $\Gamma$ and a magneto-geodesic coupling tensor.

id: quant-ph/0505145
title: Optimal squeezing and entanglement from noisy Gaussian operations
authors: N. Schuch, M.M. Wolf, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages; accepted version (minor changes), Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 023004 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505145
abstract: We investigate the creation of squeezing via operations subject to noise and losses and ask for the optimal use of such devices when supplemented by noiseless passive operations. Both single and repeated uses of the device are optimized analytically and it is proven that in the latter case the squeezing converges exponentially fast to its asymptotic optimum, which we determine explicitly. For the case of multiple iterations we show that the optimum can be achieved with fixed intermediate passive operations. Finally, we relate the results to the generation of entanglement and derive the maximal two-mode entanglement achievable within the considered scenario.

id: quant-ph/0505146
title: Robustness of a quantum key distribution with two and three mutually unbiased bases
authors: Filippo Caruso, Helle Bechmann-Pasquinucci, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 032340 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505146
abstract: We study the robustness of various protocols for quantum key distribution. We first consider the case of qutrits and study quantum protocols that employ two and three mutually unbiased bases. We then derive the optimal eavesdropping strategy for two mutually unbiased bases in dimension four and generalize the result to a quantum key distribution protocol that uses two mutually unbiased bases in arbitrary finite dimension.

id: quant-ph/0505147
title: A symmetric treatment of damped harmonic oscillator in extended phase space
authors: S. Nasiri, H. Safari
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, SNMP 2002
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505147
abstract: Extended phase space (EPS) formulation of quantum statistical mechanics treats the ordinary phase space coordinates on the same footing and thereby permits the definite the canonical momenta conjugate to these coordinates . The extended lagrangian and extended hamiltonian are defined in EPS by the same procedure as one does for ordinary lagrangian and hamiltonian. The combination of ordinary phase space and their conjugate momenta exhibits the evolution of particles and their mirror images together. The resultant evolution equation in EPS for a damped harmonic oscillator, is such that the energy dissipated by the actual oscillator is absorbed in the same rate by the image oscillator leaving the whole system as a conservative system. We use the EPS formalism to obtain the dual hamiltonian of a damped harmonic oscillator, first proposed by Batemann, by a simple extended canonical transformations in the extended phase space. The extended canonical transformations are capable of converting the damped system of actual and image oscillators to an undamped one, and transform the evolution equation into a simple form. The resultant equation is solved and the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for damped oscillator and its mirror image are obtained. The results are in agreement with those obtained by Bateman. At last, the uncertainty relation are examined for above system.

id: quant-ph/0505148
title: Gaussian State Description of Squeezed Light
authors: Vivi Petersen, Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505148
abstract: We present a Gaussian state description of squeezed light generated in an optical parametric oscillator. Using the Gaussian state description we describe the dynamics of the system conditioned on homodyne detection on the output field. Our theory shows that the output field is squeezed only if observed for long enough times or by a detector with finite bandwidth. As an application of the present approach we consider the use of finite bandwidth squeezed light together with a sample of spin-polarized atoms to estimate a magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0505149
title: Multi-particle entanglement
authors: J. Eisert, D. Gross
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, tiny typographic errors corrected
journal: Lectures on quantum information, D. Bruss and G. Leuchs Eds. (Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505149
abstract: We review the theory of multi-particle entanglement. In this book chapter we aim at briefly ``setting the coordinates'' and guiding through the extensive literature in this field. Our coordinate system chosen for this chapter has the axes labeled pure and mixed states on the one hand, entanglement in single specimens and the asymptotic setting on the other hand. We very briefly mention ways to detect multi-particle entanglement, and introduce the concepts of stabilizer and graph states.

id: quant-ph/0505150
title: A critical analysis of the hydrino model
authors: Andreas Rathke
comments: 9 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 7 (2005) 127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505150
abstract: Recently, spectroscopic and calorimetric observations of hydrogen plasmas and chemical reactions with them have been interpreted as evidence for the existence of electronic states of the hydrogen atom with a binding energy of more than 13.6 eV. The theoretical basis for such states, that have been dubbed hydrinos, is investigated. We discuss both, the novel deterministic model of the hydrogen atom, in which the existence of hydrinos was predicted, and standard quantum mechanics. Severe inconsistencies in the deterministic model are pointed out and the incompatibility of hydrino states with quantum mechanics is reviewed.

id: quant-ph/0505151
title: Gaussian quantum channels
authors: J. Eisert, M.M. Wolf
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX. Review article, previously unpublished material in Sections 3.3 and 5.4
journal: Quantum Information with Continous Variables of Atoms and Light, pages 23-42 (Imperial College Press, London, 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505151
abstract: This article provides an elementary introduction to Gaussian channels and their capacities. We review results on the classical, quantum, and entanglement assisted capacities and discuss related entropic quantities as well as additivity issues. Some of the known results are extended. In particular, it is shown that the quantum conditional entropy is maximized by Gaussian states and that some implications for additivity problems can be extended to the Gaussian setting.

id: quant-ph/0505152
title: Generalised Asymmetric Quantum Cloning
authors: S. Iblisdir, A. Acin, N. Gisin
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505152
abstract: We study machines that take N identical replicas of a pure qudit state as input and output a set of M_A clones of a given fidelity and another set of $M_B$ clones of another fidelity. The trade-off between these two fidelities is investigated, and numerous examples of optimal N -> M_A+M_B cloning machines are exhibited using a generic method. A generalisation to more than two sets of clones is also discussed. Finally, an optical implementation of some such machines is proposed. This paper is an extended version of [xxx.arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0411179].

id: quant-ph/0505153
title: Quantum Error Correction in Spatially Correlated Quantum Noise
authors: Rochus Klesse, Sandra Frank
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, final version with minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 230503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505153
abstract: We consider quantum error correction of quantum-noise that is created by a local interaction of qubits with a common bosonic bath. The possible exchange of bath bosons between qubits gives rise to spatial and temporal correlations in the noise. We find that these kind of noise correlations have a strong negative impact on quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0505154
title: Photothermal Fluctuations as a Fundamental Limit to Low-Frequency Squeezing in a Degenerate Optical Parametric Amplifier
authors: Keisuke Goda, Kirk McKenzie, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Ping Koy Lam, David McClelland, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043819 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505154
abstract: We study the effect of photothermal fluctuations on squeezed states of light through the photo-refractive effect and thermal expansion in a degenerate optical parametric amplifier (OPA). We also discuss the effect of the photothermal noise in various cases and how to minimize its undesirable consequences. We find that the photothermal noise in the OPA introduces a significant amount of noise on phase squeezed beams, making them less than ideal for low frequency applications such as gravitational wave (GW) interferometers, whereas amplitude squeezed beams are relatively immune to the photothermal noise and may represent the best choice for application in GW interferometers.

id: quant-ph/0505155
title: A Uniform Approximation for the Coherent State Propagator using a Conjugate Application of the Bargmann Representation
authors: A. D. Ribeiro, M. Novaes, M. A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 050405 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505155
abstract: We propose a conjugate application of the Bargmann representation of quantum mechanics. Applying the Maslov method to the semiclassical connection formula between the two representations, we derive a uniform semiclassical approximation for the coherent state propagator which is finite at phase space caustics.

id: quant-ph/0505156
title: Local Invariants for a Class of Mixed States
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Debashish Goswami
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 340 (2005) 37-42
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505156
abstract: We investigate the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations. A complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations is presented for a class of mixed states. It is shown that two states in this class are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have equal values for them.

id: quant-ph/0505157
title: Geometric Phase in Entangled Bipartite Systems
authors: H. T. Cui, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages and to be published in Euro. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 41, 385-389 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505157
abstract: The geometric phase (GP) for bipartite systems in transverse external magnetic fields is investigated in this paper. Two different situations have been studied. We first consider two non-interacting particles. The results show that because of entanglement, the geometric phase is very different from that of the non-entangled case. When the initial state is a Werner state, the geometric phase is, in general, zero and moreover the singularity of the geometric phase may appear with a proper evolution time. We next study the geometric phase when intra-couplings appear and choose Werner states as the initial states to entail this discussion. The results show that unlike our first case, the absolute value of the GP is not zero, and attains its maximum when the rescaled coupling constant $J$ is less than 1. The effect of inhomogeneity of the magnetic field is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505158
title: Analysis of Popper's Experiment and its Realization
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Published version
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012), 645-656
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505158
abstract: An experiment proposed by Karl Popper to test the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics was realized by Kim and Shih. We use a quantum mechanical calculation to analyze Popper's proposal, and find a surprising result for the location of the virtual slit. We also analyze Kim and Shih's experiment, and demonstrate that although it ingeniously overcomes the problem of temporal spreading of the wave-packet, it is inconclusive about Popper's test. We point out that another experiment which (unknowingly) implements Popper's test in a conclusive way, has actually been carried out. Its results are in contradiction with Popper's prediction, and agree with our analysis.

id: quant-ph/0505159
title: Periodically Pulsed Strong Squeezing
authors: H. Adamyan, J. Bergou, N. Gevorgyan, G. Kryuchkyan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of conference "Laser physics - 2004", Ashtarak-2, Armenia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505159
abstract: We report on specific signatures of squeezing for time-modulated light fields. We show that application of periodically-modulated driving fields instead of continuous wave fields drastically improves the degree of quadrature integral squeezing in an optical parametric oscillator. These results particularly allow for applications in time-resolved quantum communication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0505160
title: Quantum Information Processing Without Joint Measurement
authors: Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505160
abstract: We propose a linear optical scheme for the teleportation of unknown ionic states, the entanglement concentration for nonmaximally entangled states for ions via entanglement swapping and the remote preparation for ionic entangled states. The unique advantage of the scheme is that the joint Bell-state measurement needed in the previous schemes is not needed in the current scheme, i.e. the joint Bell-state measurement has been converted into the product of separate measurements on single ions and photons. In addition, the current scheme can realize the quantum information processes for ions by using linear optical elements, which simplify the implementation of quantum information processing for ions.

id: quant-ph/0505161
title: On the temperature dependence of the interaction-induced entanglement
authors: Michael Khasin, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 27 pages and 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052303, (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505161
abstract: Both direct and indirect weak nonresonant interactions are shown to produce entanglement between two initially disentangled systems prepared as a tensor product of thermal states, provided the initial temperature is sufficiently low. Entanglement is determined by the Peres-Horodeckii criterion, which establishes that a composite state is entangled if its partial transpose is not positive. If the initial temperature of the thermal states is higher than an upper critical value $T_{uc}$ the minimal eigenvalue of the partially transposed density matrix of the composite state remains positive in the course of the evolution. If the initial temperature of the thermal states is lower than a lower critical value $T_{lc}\leq T_{uc}$ the minimal eigenvalue of the partially transposed density matrix of the composite state becomes negative which means that entanglement develops. We calculate the lower bound $T_{lb}$ for $T_{lc}$ and show that the negativity of the composite state is negligibly small in the interval $T_{lb}<T<T_{uc}$. Therefore the lower bound temperature $T_{lb}$ can be considered as \textit{the} critical temperature for the generation of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0505162
title: Measures and dynamics of entangled states
authors: Florian Mintert, Andre R. R. Carvalho, Marek Kus, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: Physics Reports, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505162
abstract: We develop an original approach for the quantitative characterisation of the entanglement properties of, possibly mixed, bi- and multipartite quantum states of arbitrary finite dimension. Particular emphasis is given to the derivation of reliable estimates which allow for an efficient evaluation of a specific entanglement measure, concurrence, for further implementation in the monitoring of the time evolution of multipartite entanglement under incoherent environment coupling. The flexibility of the technical machinery established here is illustrated by its implementation for different, realistic experimental scenarios.

id: quant-ph/0505163
title: Fast SWAP gate by adiabatic passage
authors: N. Sangouard, X. Lacour, S. Gurin, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062309 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505163
abstract: We present a process for the construction of a SWAP gate which does not require a composition of elementary gates from a universal set. We propose to employ direct techniques adapted to the preparation of this specific gate. The mechanism, based on adiabatic passage, constitutes a decoherence-free method in the sense that spontaneous emission and cavity damping are avoided.

id: quant-ph/0505164
title: Quantum Noise Locking
authors: Kirk McKenzie, Eugeniy Mikhailov, Keisuke Goda, Ping Koy Lam, Nicolai Grosse, Malcolm B. Gray, Nergis Mavalvala, David E. McClelland
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Optics:B special issue on Quantum Control
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, S421-S428, (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505164
abstract: Quantum optical states which have no coherent amplitude, such as squeezed vacuum states, can not rely on standard readout techniques to generate error signals for control of the quadrature phase. Here we investigate the use of asymmetry in the quadrature variances to obtain a phase-sensitive readout and to lock the phase of a squeezed vacuum state, a technique which we call noise locking (NL). We carry out a theoretical derivation of the NL error signal and the associated stability of the squeezed and anti-squeezed lock points. Experimental data for the NL technique both in the presence and absence of coherent fields are shown, including a comparison with coherent locking techniques. Finally, we use NL to enable a stable readout of the squeezed vacuum state on a homodyne detector.

id: quant-ph/0505165
title: Self-organization effects and light amplification of collective atomic recoil motion in a harmonic trap
authors: L.Zhang, G.J.Yang, L.X.Xia
comments: Revtex4, 7 pages, 9 figures, revised version, to be published on J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B: Quant. & classical, 7 355, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505165
abstract: Self-organization effects related to light amplification in the collective atomic recoil laser system with the driven atoms confined in a harmonic trap are investigated further. In the dispersive parametric region, our study reveals that the spontaneously formed structures in the phase space contributes an important role to the light amplification of the probe field under the atomic motion being modified by the trap.

id: quant-ph/0505166
title: Characterization of multiqubit pure-state entanglement
authors: Zeqian Chen, Quanhua Xu
comments: 3 pages
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 73, 034306(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505166
abstract: A necessary and sufficient entanglement criterion based on variances of Mermin-Klyshko's Bell operators is proved for multiqubit pure states. Contrary to Bell's inequalities, entangled pure states strictly satisfy a quadratic inequality but product ones can attain the equality under some local unitary transformations, which can be obtained by solving a quadratic maximum problem. This presents a characterization of multiqubit pure-state entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0505167
title: Perfect Quantum Error-Correcting Condition Revisited
authors: Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505167
abstract: A simple and unifying method to show the perfect error-correcting condition is provided based on the quantum mutual information. The one-to-one parameterization of quantum operations and the properties of the quantum relative entropy are used effectively in this paper, where the equivalence between the subspace transmission and the entanglement transmission is clearly presented. We also revisit a variant of the no-cloning and no-deleting theorem based on an information-theoretical tradeoff between two parties for the reversibility of quantum operations, and demonstrate that the no-cloning and no-deleting theorem leads to the perfect error-correcting condition on Kraus operators.

id: quant-ph/0505168
title: Singular behavior of an entangled state for a one-dimensional quantum spin system
authors: Akira Kawaguchi, Kaoru Shimizu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505168
abstract: We studied the entangled state for a one-dimensional $S=1/2$ antiferromagnetic quantum spin chain in a transverse field. We calculate the ground state using the density matrix renormalization group and discuss how the entangled state changes around a quantum phase transition (QPT) point. By analyzing concurrence $C(\rho)$ for two-qubit density matrix $\rho$ after the Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition, $\rho=\Lambda \rho_s + (1-\Lambda) \rho_e $, where $\rho_s$ is a separable density matrix and $\rho_e$ is a pure entangled state obtained by a linear combination of Bell states, we find singular behaviors both in $C(\rho_e)$ and $1-\Lambda$ at the QPT point.&#12288; $C(\rho_e)$ includes the effects of quantum fluctuations, which manifest the competition between the antiferromagnetic spin fluctuation and the effect of transverse field in the transverse Ising model. The quantum fluctuation shows the singular maximum at the QPT point as expected from the general picture of phase transition. In contrast, $1-\Lambda$ reveals the singular minimum at QPT point.

id: quant-ph/0505169
title: Wave packet transmission of Bloch electron manipulated by magnetic field
authors: S. Yang, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, new content added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505169
abstract: We study the phenomenon of wave packet revivals of Bloch electrons and explore how to control them by a magnetic field for quantum information transfer. It is showed that the single electron system can be modulated into a linear dispersion regime by the "quantized" flux and then an electronic wave packet with the components localized in this regime can be transferred without spreading. This feature can be utilized to perform the high-fidelity transfer of quantum information encoded in the polarization of the spin. Beyond the linear approximation, the re-localization and self-interference occur as the novel phenomena of quantum coherence.

id: quant-ph/0505170
title: Light Qubit Storage and Retrieval using Macroscopic Atomic Ensembles
authors: J. Sherson, A. S. Soerensen, J. Fiurasek, K. Moelmer, E. Polzik
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures For his new version, the original paper has substantially rewritten to make it clearer including completely new introduction and conclusions and a rearrangement of the middle part. A minor mistake in the numerical results has been found and corrected, which resulted in higher values for the fidelities
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505170
abstract: We present an experimentally feasible protocol for the complete storage and retrieval of arbitrary light states in an atomic quantum memory using the well-established Faraday interaction between light and matter. Our protocol relies on multiple passages of a single light pulse through the atomic ensemble without the impractical requirement of kilometer long delay lines between the passages. Furthermore, we introduce a time dependent interaction strength which enables storage and retrieval of states with arbitrary pulse shapes. The fidelity approaches unity exponentially without squeezed or entangled initial states, as illustrated by explicit calculations for a photonic qubit.

id: quant-ph/0505171
title: New approach to (quasi)-exactly solvable Schrodinger equations with a position-dependent effective mass
authors: B. Bagchi, P. Gorain, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 11 pages, no figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 72 (2005) 155-161
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505171
abstract: By using the point canonical transformation approach in a manner distinct from previous ones, we generate some new exactly solvable or quasi-exactly solvable potentials for the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with a position-dependent effective mass. In the latter case, SUSYQM techniques provide us with some additional new potentials.

id: quant-ph/0505172
title: Collapse challenge for interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: Arnold Neumaier
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505172
abstract: The collapse challenge for interpretations of quantum mechanics is to build from first principles and your preferred interpretation a complete, observer-free quantum model of the described experiment (involving a photon and two screens), together with a formal analysis that completely explains the experimental result. The challenge is explained in detail, and discussed in the light of the Copenhagen interpretation and the decoherence setting.

id: quant-ph/0505173
title: Rydberg wavepackets in terms of hidden-variables: de Broglie-Bohm trajectories
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figs
journal: Phys. Lett. A 345, 31 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505173
abstract: The dynamics of highly excited radial Rydberg wavepackets is analyzed in terms of de Broglie-Bohm (BB) trajectories. Although the wavepacket evolves along classical motion, the computed BB trajectories are markedly different from the classical dynamics: in particular none of the trajectories initially near the atomic core reach the outer turning point where the wavepacket localizes periodically. The reasons for this behavior, that we suggest to be generic for trajectory-based hidden variable theories, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505174
title: Entanglement can enhance the distinguishability of entanglement-breaking channels
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 2 pages, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 014305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505174
abstract: We show the rather counterintuitive result that entangled input states can strictly enhance the distinguishability of two entanglement-breaking channels.

id: quant-ph/0505175
title: Relational time for systems of oscillators
authors: G.J.Milburn, David Poulin
comments: Contribution to the Int. J. of Quant. Info. issue dedicated to the memory of Asher Peres
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505175
abstract: Using an elementary example based on two simple harmonic oscillators, we show how a relational time may be defined that leads to an approximate Schrodinger dynamics for subsystems, with corrections leading to an intrinsic decoherence in the energy eigenstates of the subsystem.

id: quant-ph/0505176
title: Spin Bath Decoherence of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Zafer Gedik
comments: 9 pages
journal: Solid State Communications, v. 138, p. 82 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505176
abstract: We study an analytically solvable model for decoherence of a two spin system embedded in a large spin environment. As a measure of entanglement, we evaluate the concurrence for the Bell states (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs). We find that while for two separate spin baths all four Bell states lose their coherence with the same time dependence, for a common spin bath, two of the states decay faster than the others. We explain this difference by the relative orientation of the individual spins in the pair. We also examine how the Bell inequality is violated in the coherent regime. Both for one bath and two bath cases, we find that while two of the Bell states always obey the inequality, the other two initially violates the inequality at early times.

id: quant-ph/0505177
title: Effects of single-qubit quantum noise on entanglement purification
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Sara Felloni, Giuliano Strini
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures, minor changes, added appendix A
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 38, 389 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505177
abstract: We study the stability under quantum noise effects of the quantum privacy amplification protocol for the purification of entanglement in quantum cryptography. We assume that the E91 protocol is used by two communicating parties (Alice and Bob) and that the eavesdropper Eve uses the isotropic Bu\v{z}ek-Hillery quantum copying machine to extract information. Entanglement purification is then operated by Alice and Bob by means of the quantum privacy amplification protocol and we present a systematic numerical study of the impact of all possible single-qubit noise channels on this protocol. We find that both the qualitative behavior of the fidelity of the purified state as a function of the number of purification steps and the maximum level of noise that can be tolerated by the protocol strongly depend on the specific noise channel. These results provide valuable information for experimental implementations of the quantum privacy amplification protocol.

id: quant-ph/0505178
title: All-Versus-Nothing Violation of Local Realism by Swapping Entanglement
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; a revised version, added some discussions and refs.; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505178
abstract: The usual entanglement swapping protocol can entangle two particles that never interact. Here we demonstrate an all-versus-nothing violation of local realism for a partial entanglement swapping process. A Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-type inequality for two particles entangled by entanglement swapping is proposed for a practical experiment and can be violated quantum mechanically up to 4 beyond Cirel'son's bound 2sqr(2). Our result uncovers the intriguing nonlocal character of entanglement swapping and may lead to a conclusive (loophole-free) test of local realism versus quantum mechanics. The experimental test of the nonlocality under current technology is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505179
title: Simplified diagrammatic expansion for effective operator
authors: Chang-Kui Duan, Yungui Gong, Hui-Ning Dong, Michael F. Reid
comments: 5 journal pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 121, No. 11, 5071-5076 (15 September 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505179
abstract: For a quantum many-body problem, effective Hamiltonians that give exact eigenvalues in reduced model space usually have different expressions, diagrams and evaluation rules from effective transition operators that give exact transition matrix elements between effective eigenvectors in reduced model space. By modifying these diagrams slightly and considering the linked diagrams for all the terms of the same order, we find that the evaluation rules can be made the same for both effective Hamiltonian and effective transition operator diagrams, and in many cases it is possible to combine many diagrams into one modified diagram. We give the rules to evaluate these modified diagrams and show their validity.

id: quant-ph/0505180
title: Combinatorial approach to generalized Bell and Stirling numbers and boson normal ordering problem
authors: M A Mendez, P Blasiak, K A Penson
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 083511 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505180
abstract: We consider the numbers arising in the problem of normal ordering of expressions in canonical boson creation and annihilation operators. We treat a general form of a boson string which is shown to be associated with generalizations of Stirling and Bell numbers. The recurrence relations and closed-form expressions (Dobiski-type formulas) are obtained for these quantities by both algebraic and combinatorial methods. By extensive use of methods of combinatorial analysis we prove the equivalence of the aforementioned problem to the enumeration of special families of graphs. This link provides a combinatorial interpretation of the numbers arising in this normal ordering problem.

id: quant-ph/0505181
title: Effective mass in cavity QED
authors: Jonas Larson, Janne Salo, Stig Stenholm
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures, accepted in Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 013814 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505181
abstract: We consider propagation of a two-level atom coupled to one electro-magnetic mode of a high-Q cavity. The atomic center-of-mass motion is treated quantum mechanically and we use a standing wave shape for the mode. The periodicity of the Hamiltonian leads to a spectrum consisting of bands and gaps, which is studied from a Floquet point of view. Based on the band theory we introduce a set of effective mass parameters that approximately describe the effect of the cavity on the atomic motion, with the emphasis on one associated with the group velocity and on another one that coincides with the conventional effective mass. Propagation of initially Gaussian wave packets is also studied using numerical simulations and the mass parameters extracted thereof are compared with those predicted by the Floquet theory. Scattering and transmission of the wave packet against the cavity are further analyzed, and the constraints for the effective mass approach to be valid are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0505182
title: Local field effects on the radiative lifetimes of Ce$^{3+}$ in different hosts
authors: Chang-Kui Duan, Michael F. Reid
comments: 9pages, 1 figures, presented on AMN-2 and to appear on Current Applied Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505182
abstract: For emitters embedded in media of various refractive indices, different theoretical models predicted substantially different dependencies of the spontaneous emission lifetime on refractive index. It has been claimed that various measurements on $4f\to 4f$ radiative transition of Eu$^{3+}$ in hosts with variable refractive index appear to favor the real-cavity model [J. Fluoresc. 13, 201 (2003) and references therein, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 203903 (2003)]. We notice that $5d\to 4f$ radiative transition of rare-earth ions, dominated by allowed electric-dipole transitions with line strengths less perturbed by the ligands, serves as a better test of different models. We analyze the lifetimes of $5d\to 4f$ transition of Ce$^{3+}$ in hosts of refractive indices varying from 1.4 to 2.2. The results favor the macroscopic virtual-cavity model based on Lorentz local field [J. Fluoresc. 13, 201 (2003)].

id: quant-ph/0505183
title: Optimal discrimination of quantum operations
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 062340 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505183
abstract: We address the problem of discriminating with minimal error probability two given quantum operations. We show that the use of entangled input states generally improves the discrimination. For Pauli channels we provide a complete comparison of the optimal strategies where either entangled or unentangled input states are used.

id: quant-ph/0505184
title: Plasmon signatures in high harmonic generation
authors: J. Zanghellini, Ch. Jungreuthmayer, T. Brabec
comments: Major revision, 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to J. Phys. B (2005), accepted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505184
abstract: High harmonic generation in polarizable multi-electron systems is investigated in the framework of multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree-Fock. The harmonic spectra exhibit two cut offs. The first cut off is in agreement with the well established, single active electron cut off law. The second cut off presents a signature of multi-electron dynamics. The strong laser field excites non-linear plasmon oscillations. Electrons that are ionized from one of the multi-plasmon states and recombine to the ground state gain additional energy, thereby creating the second plateau.

id: quant-ph/0505185
title: On the black-box complexity of Sperner's Lemma
authors: Katalin Friedl, Gabor Ivanyos, Miklos Santha, Yves F. Verhoeven
comments: 16 pages with 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505185
abstract: We present several results on the complexity of various forms of Sperner's Lemma in the black-box model of computing. We give a deterministic algorithm for Sperner problems over pseudo-manifolds of arbitrary dimension. The query complexity of our algorithm is linear in the separation number of the skeleton graph of the manifold and the size of its boundary. As a corollary we get an $O(\sqrt{n})$ deterministic query algorithm for the black-box version of the problem {\bf 2D-SPERNER}, a well studied member of Papadimitriou's complexity class PPAD. This upper bound matches the $\Omega(\sqrt{n})$ deterministic lower bound of Crescenzi and Silvestri. The tightness of this bound was not known before. In another result we prove for the same problem an $\Omega(\sqrt[4]{n})$ lower bound for its probabilistic, and an $\Omega(\sqrt[8]{n})$ lower bound for its quantum query complexity, showing that all these measures are polynomially related.

id: quant-ph/0505186
title: EIT and diffusion of atomic coherence
authors: I. Novikova, Y. Xiao, D.F. Phillips, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. of Modern Optics v.52 (16), pp.2381-2390 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505186
abstract: We study experimentally the effect of diffusion of Rb atoms on Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in a buffer gas vapor cell. In particular, we find that diffusion of atomic coherence in-and-out of the laser beam plays a crucial role in determining the EIT resonance lineshape and the stored light lifetime.

id: quant-ph/0505187
title: Quantum Physics from A to Z
authors: M. Arndt, M. Aspelmeyer, H. J. Bernstein, R. Bertlmann, C. Brukner, J. P. Dowling, J. Eisert, A. Ekert, C. A. Fuchs, D. M. Greenberger, M. A. Horne, T. Jennewein, P. G. Kwiat, N. D. Mermin, J.-W. Pan, E. M. Rasel, H. Rauch, T. G. Rudolph, C. Salomon, A. V. Sergienko, J. Schmiedmayer, C. Simon, V. Vedral, P. Walther, G. Weihs, P. Zoller, M. Zukowski
comments: 3 pages, Quantum Physics of Nature (QUPON) Conference, Vienna, Austria, May 22nd-26th, 2005; v4: more contributions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505187
abstract: This is a collection of statements gathered on the occasion of the Quantum Physics of Nature meeting in Vienna.

id: quant-ph/0505188
title: Lower Bounds on Matrix Rigidity via a Quantum Argument
authors: Ronald de Wolf
comments: 10 pages LaTeX, 2nd version: some discussion added. This version to appear in ICALP 2006 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505188
abstract: The rigidity of a matrix measures how many of its entries need to be changed in order to reduce its rank to some value. Good lower bounds on the rigidity of an explicit matrix would imply good lower bounds for arithmetic circuits as well as for communication complexity. Here we reprove the best known bounds on the rigidity of Hadamard matrices, due to Kashin and Razborov, using tools from quantum computing. Our proofs are somewhat simpler than earlier ones (at least for those familiar with quantum) and give slightly better constants. More importantly, they give a new approach to attack this longstanding open problem.

id: quant-ph/0505189
title: Atom diode: Variants, stability, limits, and adiabatic interpretation
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, J.G. Muga
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505189
abstract: We examine and explain the stability properties of the ``atom diode'', a laser device that lets the ground state atom pass in one direction but not in the opposite direction. The diodic behavior and the variants that result by using different laser configurations may be understood with an adiabatic approximation. The conditions to break down the approximation, which imply also the diode failure, are analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0505190
title: Dynamical probability, particle trajectories and completion of traditional quantum mechanics
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505190
abstract: Maintaining the position that the wave function $\psi$ provides a complete description of state, the traditional formalism of quantum mechanics is augmented by introducing continuous trajectories for particles which are sample paths of a stochastic process determined (including the underlying probability space) by $\psi$. In the resulting formalism, problems relating to measurements and objective reality are solved as in Bohmian mechanics (without sharing its weak points). The pitfalls of Nelson's stochastic mechanics are also avoided.

id: quant-ph/0505191
title: Transverse localization and slow propagation of light
authors: Jing Cheng, ShenSheng Han, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505191
abstract: The effect of finite control beam on the transverse spatial profile of the slow light propagation in an electromagnetically induced transparency medium is studied. We arrive at a general criterion in terms of eigenequation, and demonstrate the existence of a set of localized, stationary transverse modes for the negative detuning of the probe signal field. Each of these diffraction-free transverse modes has its own characteristic group velocity, smaller than the conventional theoretical result without considering the transverse spatial effect.

id: quant-ph/0505192
title: Ultrahigh Precision Absolute and Relative Rotation Sensing using Fast and Slow Light
authors: M.S. Shahriar, G.S. Pati, R. Tripathi, V. Gopal, M. Messall, K. Salit
comments: 6 pages including figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505192
abstract: We describe a resonator based optical gyroscope whose sensitivity for measuring absolute rotation is enhanced via use of the anomalous dispersion characteristic of superluminal light propagation. The enhancement is given by the inverse of the group index, saturating to a bound determined by the group velocity dispersion. We also show how the offsetting effect of the concomitant broadening of the resonator linewidth may be circumvented by using an active cavity. For realistic conditions, the enhancement factor is as high as 106. We also show how normal dispersion used for slow light can enhance relative rotation sensing in a specially designed Sagnac interferometer, with the enhancement given by the slowing factor

id: quant-ph/0505193
title: Entanglement entropy and quantum field theory: a non-technical introduction
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 10 Pages, 2 figures. Talk given at the conference "Entanglement in Physical and information sciences", Centro Ennio de Giorgi, Pisa, December 2004
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf. 4 (2006) 429
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505193
abstract: In these proceedings we give a pedagogical and non-technical introduction to the Quantum Field Theory approach to entanglement entropy. Particular attention is devoted to the one space dimensional case, with a linear dispersion relation, that, at a quantum critical point, can be effectively described by a two-dimensional Conformal Field Theory.

id: quant-ph/0505194
title: A simple quantum gate with atom chips
authors: M. A. Cirone, A. Negretti, T. Calarco, P. Krueger, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. One missing reference added in v2. To appear in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 35, 165 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505194
abstract: We present a simple scheme for implementing an atomic phase gate using two degrees of freedom for each atom and discuss its realization with cold rubidium atoms on atom chips. We investigate the performance of this collisional phase gate and show that gate operations with high fidelity can be realized in magnetic traps that are currently available on atom chips.

id: quant-ph/0505195
title: Nonlocality without inequalities for almost all entangled states of any quantum system
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, to be published on Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 014105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505195
abstract: It is shown that it is possible to rule out all local and stochastic hidden variable models accounting for the quantum mechanical predictions implied by almost any entangled quantum state vector of any number of particles whose Hilbert spaces have arbitrary dimensions, without resorting to Bell-type inequalities. The present proof makes use of the mathematically precise notion of Bell locality and it involves only simple set theoretic arguments.

id: quant-ph/0505196
title: Dynamical zero-temperature phase transitions and cosmic inflation/deflation
authors: Ralf Schtzhold
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 95 (2005) 135703
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505196
abstract: For a rather general class of scenarios, sweeping through a zero-temperature phase transition by means of a time-dependent external parameter entails universal behavior: In the vicinity of the critical point, excitations behave as quantum fields in an expanding or contracting universe. The resulting effects such as the amplification or suppression of quantum fluctuations (due to horizon crossing, freezing, and squeezing) including the induced spectrum can be derived using the curved space-time analogy. The observed similarity entices the question of whether cosmic inflation itself might perhaps have been such a phase transition. PACS: 73.43.Nq, 04.62.+v, 98.80.Cq, 04.80.-y.

id: quant-ph/0505197
title: Mutual information--based approach to adaptive homodyne detection of quantum optical states
authors: Igor Bargatin
comments: Submutted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 72, 022316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505197
abstract: I propose an approach to adaptive homodyne detection of digitally modulated quantum optical pulses in which the phase of the local oscillator is chosen to maximize the average information gain, i.e., the mutual information, at each step of the measurement. I study the properties of this adaptive detection scheme by considering the problem of classical information content of ensembles of coherent states. Using simulations of quantum trajectories and visualizations of corresponding measurement operators, I show that the proposed measurement scheme adapts itself to the features of each ensemble. For all considered ensembles of coherent states, it consistently outperforms heterodyne detection and Wiseman's adaptive scheme for phase measurements [H.M. Wiseman, Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 4587 (1995)].

id: quant-ph/0505198
title: Realisation of a Frequency Standard Using an Atomic Fountain
authors: A. Michaud, M. Chowdhury, K. P. Zetie, C. J. Cooper, G. Hillenbrand, V. Lorent, A. Steane, C. J. Foot
comments: Keywords: Atomic clock, atomic fountain, laser cooling
journal: Proceedings of the 7th European Frequency and Time Forum, Neuchatel, Switzerland, 16-18 March 1993, pp. 525-530
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505198
abstract: We report the realisation and preliminary study of a frequency standard using a fountain of laser cooled caesium atoms. Our apparatus uses a magneto-optical trap as a source of cold atoms and optical pumping to prepare the atoms in the correct state before they enter the microwave cavity.

id: quant-ph/0505199
title: Engineering Entanglement: The Fast-Approach Phase Gate
authors: Dan Vager, Bilha Segev, Y. B. Band
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Phys. Rev. A (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. A72, 022325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505199
abstract: Optimal-control techniques and a fast-approach scheme are used to implement a collisional control phase gate in a model of cold atoms in an optical lattice, significantly reducing the gate time as compared to adiabatic evolution while maintaining high fidelity. New objective functionals are given for which optimal paths are obtained for evolution that yields a control-phase gate up to single-atom Rabi shifts. Furthermore, the fast-approach procedure is used to design a path to significantly increase the fidelity of non-adiabatic transport in a recent experiment. Also, the entanglement power of phase gates is quantified.

id: quant-ph/0505200
title: Algorithmic complexity and entanglement of quantum states
authors: Caterina Mora, Hans Briegel
comments: 4 pages. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 200503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505200
abstract: We define the algorithmic complexity of a quantum state relative to a given precision parameter, and give upper bounds for various examples of states. We also establish a connection between the entanglement of a quantum state and its algorithmic complexity.

id: quant-ph/0505201
title: Extracting an arbitrary relative phase from a multiqubit two-component entangled state
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Siyuan Han
comments: 4 pages, REVTEX, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 72, 014306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505201
abstract: We show that an arbitrary relative phase can be extracted from a multiqubit two-component (MTC) entangled state by local Hadamard transformations and measurements along a single basis only. In addition, how to distinguish a MTC entangled state with an arbitrary entanglement degree and relative phase from a class of multiqubit mixed states is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0505202
title: Probabilistic programmable quantum processors with multiple copies of program state
authors: Adam Brazier, Vladimir Buzek, Peter L. Knight
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 71, p. 032306, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505202
abstract: We examine the execution of general U(1) transformations on programmable quantum processors. We show that, with only the minimal assumption of availability of copies of the one-qubit program state, that the apparent advantage of existing schemes proposed by G.Vidal it et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 047905 (2002)] and M.Hillery et al. [Phys. Rev. A. 65, 022301 (2003)] to execute a general U(1) transformation with greater probability using complex program states appears not to hold.

id: quant-ph/0505203
title: Phase Control of Trapped Ion Quantum Gates
authors: P J Lee, K-A Brickman, L Deslauriers, P C Haljan, L-M Duan, C Monroe
comments: 21 pages 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505203
abstract: There are several known schemes for entangling trapped ion quantum bits for large-scale quantum computation. Most are based on an interaction between the ions and external optical fields, coupling internal qubit states of trapped-ions to their Coulomb-coupled motion. In this paper, we examine the sensitivity of these motional gate schemes to phase fluctuations introduced through noisy external control fields, and suggest techniques to suppress the resulting phase decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0505204
title: Superluminal telecommunication: an observable contradiction between quantum entanglement and relativistic causality
authors: Ruo Peng Wang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505204
abstract: I present a schema for a superluminal telecommunication system based on polarization entangled photon pairs. Binary signals can be transmitted at superluminal speed in this system, if entangled photon pairs can really be produced. The existence of the polarization entangled photon pairs is in direct contradiction to the relativistic causality in this telecommunication system. This contradiction implies the impossibility of generating entangled photon pairs.

id: quant-ph/0505205
title: Mesoscopic continuous and discrete channels for quantum information transfer
authors: F. de Pasquale, G. Giorgi, S. Paganelli
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505205
abstract: We study the possibility of realizing perfect quantum state transfer in mesoscopic devices. We discuss the case of the Fano-Anderson model extended to two impurities. For a channel with an infinite number of degrees of freedom, we obtain coherent behavior in the case of strong coupling or in weak coupling off-resonance. For a finite number of degrees of freedom, coherent behavior is associated to weak coupling and resonance conditions.

id: quant-ph/0505206
title: Multi-quantum eigenstates of a linear chain of coupled qubits
authors: C. J. Mewton, Z. Ficek
comments: 4 pages, accepted for publication in Physical Review A; New version incorporates a minor correction made in the published paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 060311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505206
abstract: We present a technique to identify exact analytic expressions for the multi-quantum eigenstates of a linear chain of coupled qubits. A choice of Hilbert subspaces is described which allows an exact solution of the stationary Schr\"{o}dinger equation without imposing periodic boundary conditions and without neglecting end effects, fully including the dipole-dipole nearest-neighbor interaction between the atoms. The treatment is valid for an arbitrary coherent excitation in the atomic system, any number of atoms, any size of the chain relative to the resonant wavelength and arbitrary initial conditions of the atomic system. The procedure we develop is general enough to be adopted for the study of excitation in an arbitrary array of atoms including spin chains and one-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: quant-ph/0505207
title: Probabilistic cloning with supplementary information
authors: Koji Azuma, Junichi Shimamura, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032335 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505207
abstract: We consider probabilistic cloning of a state chosen from a mutually nonorthogonal set of pure states, with the help of a party holding supplementary information in the form of pure states. When the number of states is 2, we show that the best efficiency of producing m copies is always achieved by a two-step protocol in which the helping party first attempts to produce m-1 copies from the supplementary state, and if it fails, then the original state is used to produce m copies. On the other hand, when the number of states exceeds two, the best efficiency is not always achieved by such a protocol. We give examples in which the best efficiency is not achieved even if we allow any amount of one-way classical communication from the helping party.

id: quant-ph/0505208
title: Multimode entanglement and telecloning in a noisy environment
authors: A. Ferraro, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. Minor revisions. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505208
abstract: We address generation, propagation and application of multipartite continuous variable entanglement in a noisy environment. In particular, we focus our attention on the multimode entangled states achievable by second order nonlinear crystals, {\em i.e.} coherent states of ${\rm SU}(m,1)$ group. The full inseparability in the ideal case is shown, whereas thresholds for separability are given for the tripartite case in the presence of noise. We then consider coherent states of ${\rm SU}(m,1)$ as support for a telecloning protocol, providing the first example of a completely asymmetric $1 \to m$ telecloning. We derive explicitly the optimal relation among the different fidelities of the clones. The effect of noise in the various stages of the protocol is taken into account, thus permitting its adaptive modifications to the noisy environment. In the optimized scheme the clones' fidelity remains maximal even in the presence of losses (in the absence of thermal noise), for propagation times that diverge as the number of modes increases, indicating that telecloning is a more effective way to distribute quantum information then direct transmission followed by local cloning.

id: quant-ph/0505209
title: Noncyclic Pancharatnam phase for mixed state SU(2) evolution in neutron polarimetry
authors: J. Klepp, S. Sponar, Y. Hasegawa, E. Jericha, G. Badurek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys.Lett.A
journal: Phys.Lett.A 342, 48(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505209
abstract: We have measured the Pancharatnam relative phase for spin-1/2 states. In a neutron polarimetry experiment the minima and maxima of intensity modulations, giving the Pancharatnam phase, were determined. We have also considered general SU(2) evolution for mixed states. The results are in good agreement with theory.

id: quant-ph/0505210
title: Nanoscale atomic waveguides with suspended carbon nanotubes
authors: V. Peano, M. Thorwart, A. Kasper, R. Egger
comments: Replaced with the published version, 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 81, 1075-1080 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505210
abstract: We propose an experimentally viable setup for the realization of one-dimensional ultracold atom gases in a nanoscale magnetic waveguide formed by single doubly-clamped suspended carbon nanotubes. We show that all common decoherence and atom loss mechanisms are small guaranteeing a stable operation of the trap. Since the extremely large current densities in carbon nanotubes are spatially homogeneous, our proposed architecture allows to overcome the problem of fragmentation of the atom cloud. Adding a second nanowire allows to create a double-well potential with a moderate tunneling barrier which is desired for tunneling and interference experiments with the advantage of tunneling distances being in the nanometer regime.

id: quant-ph/0505211
title: Efficient generation of correlated photon pairs in a microstructure fiber
authors: J. Fan, A. Migdall, L. J. Wang
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505211
abstract: We report efficient generation of correlated photon pairs through degenerate four-wave mixing in microstructure fibers. With 735.7 nm pump pulses producing conjugate signal (688.5 nm) and idler (789.8 nm) photons in a 1.8 m microstructure fiber, we detect photon pairs at a rate of 37.6 kHz with a coincidence/accidental contrast of 10:1 with a full-width-at-half-maximum bandwidth of 0.7 nm. This is the highest rate reported to date in a fiber-based photon source. The nonclassicality of this source, as defined by the Zou-Wang-Mandel inequality, is violated by 1100 times the uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0505212
title: Highly asymmetric quantum cloning in arbitrary dimension
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Radim Filip, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX 4
journal: Quant. Inform. Comp. 5, 583 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505212
abstract: We investigate the universal asymmetric cloning of states in a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension. We derive the class of optimal and fully asymmetric 1->3 cloners, which produce three copies, each having a different fidelity. A simple parametric expression for the maximum achievable cloning fidelity triplets is then provided. As a side-product, we also prove the optimality of the 1->2 asymmetric cloning machines that have been proposed in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0505213
title: Entanglement and the Power of One Qubit
authors: Animesh Datta, Steven T. Flammia, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 042316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505213
abstract: The "Power of One Qubit" refers to a computational model that has access to only one pure bit of quantum information, along with n qubits in the totally mixed state. This model, though not as powerful as a pure-state quantum computer, is capable of performing some computational tasks exponentially faster than any known classical algorithm. One such task is to estimate with fixed accuracy the normalized trace of a unitary operator that can be implemented efficiently in a quantum circuit. We show that circuits of this type generally lead to entangled states, and we investigate the amount of entanglement possible in such circuits, as measured by the multiplicative negativity. We show that the multiplicative negativity is bounded by a constant, independent of n, for all bipartite divisions of the n+1 qubits, and so becomes, when n is large, a vanishingly small fraction of the maximum possible multiplicative negativity for roughly equal divisions. This suggests that the global nature of entanglement is a more important resource for quantum computation than the magnitude of the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0505214
title: A generalized form of Hamilton's principle
authors: John Hegseth
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505214
abstract: Many quantization schemes rely on analogs of classical mechanics where the connections with classical mechanics are indirect. In this work I propose a new and direct connection between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics where the quantum mechanical propagator is derived from a variational principle. I identify this variational principle as a generalized form of Hamilton's principle. This proposed variational principle is unusual because the physical system is allowed to have imperfect information, i.e., there is incomplete knowledge of the physical state. Two distribution functionals over possible generalized momentum paths a[p(t)] and generalized coordinates paths b[q(t)] are defined. A generalized action is defined that corresponds to a contraction of a[p(t)], b[q(t)], and a matrix of the action evaluated at all possible p and q paths. Hamilton's principle is the extremization of the generalized action over all possible distributions. The normalization of the two distributions allows their values to be negative and they are shown to be the real and imaginary parts of the complex amplitude. The amplitude in the Feynman path integral is shown to be an optimal vector that extremizes the generalized action. This formulation is also shown to be directly applicable to statistical mechanics and I show how irreversible behavior and the micro-canonical ensemble follows immediately.

id: quant-ph/0505215
title: Microscopic origin of the second law of thermodynamics
authors: You-gang Feng
comments: 8 pages
journal: published in EJTP 4 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505215
abstract: We proved when random-variable fluctuations obey the central limit theorem the equality of the uncertainty relation corresponds to the thermodynamic equilibrium state. The inequality corresponds to the thermodynamic non-equilibrium state. The uncertainty relation is a quantum-mechanics expression of the second law of thermodynamics originated in wave-particle duality. Formulas of mean square-deviations changes adjusted by random fluctuations under the minimal uncertainty relation are obtained. Finally, an assumption is made which is waiting for examination. We except phase transitions in our discussion.

id: quant-ph/0505216
title: Stationary entanglement and nonlocality of two qubits or qutrits collectively interacting with the thermal environment: The role of Bell singlet state
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, RevTex4, a reference is added and change the email address
journal: INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF QUANTUM INFORMATION: 6, 1165 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505216
abstract: We investigate the stationary entanglement and stationary nonlocality of two qubits collectively interacting with a common thermal environment. We assume two qubits are initially in Werner state or Werner-like state, and find that thermal environment can make two qubits become stationary nonlocality. The analytical relations among average thermal photon number of the environment, entanglement and nonlocality of two qubits are given in details. It is shown that the fraction of Bell singlet state plays a key role in the phenomenon that the common thermal reservoir can enhance the entanglement of two qubits. Moreover, we find that the collective decay of two qubits in a thermal reservoir at zero-temperature can generate a stationary maximally entangled mixed state if only the fraction of Bell singlet state in the initial state is not smaller than 2/3. It provides us a feasible way to prepare the maximally entangled mixed state in various physical systems such as the trapped ions, quantum dots or Josephson Junctions. For the case in which two qutrits collectively coupled with the thermal reservoir at zero-temperature, we find that the collective decay can induce the entanglement of two qutrits initially in the maximally mixed state. The collective decay of two qutrits can also induce distillable entanglement from the initial conjectured negative partial transpose bound entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0505217
title: Dualism in Entanglement and Testing Quantum to Classical Transition of Identicity
authors: S. Bose, D. Home
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505217
abstract: We show a hitherto unexplored consequence of the property of identicity in quantum mechanics. If two identical objects, distinguished by a dynamical variable A, are in certain entangled states of another dynamical variable B, then, for such states, they are also entangled in variable A when distinguished from each other by variable B. This dualism is independent of quantum statistics. Departures from identicity of the objects due to arbitrarily small differences in their innate attributes destroy this dualism. A system independent scheme to test the dualism is formulated which is readily realizable with photons. This scheme can be performed without requiring the entangled objects to be brought together. Thus whether two macro-systems behave as quantum identical objects can be probed without the complications of scattering. Such a study would complement the program of testing the validity of quantum superposition principle in the macro-domain which has stimulated considerable experimentation.

id: quant-ph/0505218
title: Uncertainty relation and quantitative condition of inversion symmetry of time in many-particle system
authors: You-gang Feng
comments: 5 pages
journal: published in EJTP 5 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505218
abstract: We proved that the uncertainty relation fits in with many-particle system and the equality of the relation corresponds to the thermodynamic equilibrium state, the inequality of the relation corresponds to the thermodynamic non-equilibrium state for any quantum system. The microscopic origin of the second law of thermodynamics is certainly resulted in the wave-particle duality of matter. A quantitative condition of inversion symmetry of time is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0505219
title: On exact identity between thermodynamic and informatic entropies in a unitary model of friction
authors: Lajos Disi, Tova Feldmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 8pp, Contribution to the Int. J. of Quant. Info. issue dedicated to the memory of Asher Peres
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 4 (2006) 99-104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505219
abstract: An elementary collision model of a molecular reservoir is considered upon which an external field is applied and the work is dissipated into heat. To realize macroscopic irreversibility at the microscopic level, we introduce a ``graceful'' irreversible map which randomly mixes the identities of the molecules. This map is expected to generate informatic entropy exactly equal to the independently calculable irreversible thermodynamic entropy.

id: quant-ph/0505220
title: Tomograms in the Quantum-Classical transition
authors: V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, A. Stern, F. Ventriglia
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A343 (2005) 251-256
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505220
abstract: The quantum-classical limits for quantum tomograms are studied and compared with the corresponding classical tomograms, using two different definitions for the limit. One is the Planck limit where $\hbar \to 0$ in all $\hbar $-dependent physical observables, and the other is the Ehrenfest limit where $\hbar \to 0$ while keeping constant the mean value of the energy.The Ehrenfest limit of eigenstate tomograms for a particle in a box and a harmonic oscillatoris shown to agree with the corresponding classical tomograms of phase-space distributions, after a time averaging. The Planck limit of superposition state tomograms of the harmonic oscillator demostrating the decreasing contribution of interferences terms as $\hbar \to 0$.

id: quant-ph/0505221
title: $\cal{PT}$ symmetric models with nonlinear pseudo supersymmetry
authors: A. Sinha, P. Roy
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 032102 - 032118 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505221
abstract: By applying the higher order Darboux algorithm to an exactly solvable non Hermitian ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric potential, we obtain a hierarchy of new exactly solvable non Hermitian ${\cal{PT}}$ symmetric potentials with real spectra. It is shown that the symmetry underlying the potentials so generated and the original one is {\it nonlinear pseudo supersymmetry}. We also show that this formalism can be used to generate a larger class of new solvable potentials when applied to non Hermitian systems.

id: quant-ph/0505223
title: Commuting multiparty quantum observables and local compatibility
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505223
abstract: A formula for the commutator of tensor product matrices is used to shows that, for qubits, compatibility of quantum multiparty observables almost never implies local compatibility at each site and to predict when this happens/does not happen in a concise manner. In particular, it is shown that two ``fully nontrivial'' $n$-qubit observables are compatible locally and globally if and only if they are equal up to sign. In addition, the formula gives insight into the construction of new paradoxes of the type of the Kochen-Specker Theorem, which can then be easily rephrased into proposals for new no hidden variable experiments of the type of the ``Bell Theorem without inequalities''.

id: quant-ph/0505224
title: Semiclassical propagation of spin coherent states
authors: M. Novaes
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042102 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505224
abstract: The semiclassical propagation of spin coherent states is considered in complex phase space. For two time-independent systems we find the appropriate classical trajectories and show that their combined contributions are able to describe quantum interference with great accuracy. Not only the modulus but also the phase of the quantum propagator, both dynamical and geometric terms combined, are accurately reproduced.

id: quant-ph/0505225
title: Three-spin interactions and entanglement in optical lattices
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, talk presented at the De Giorgi Workshop on Entanglement in Physical and Information Science, Pisa 2004
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, p. 541 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505225
abstract: The entanglement properties of some novel quantum systems are studied that are inspired by recent developments in cold-atom technology. A triangular optical lattice of two atomic species can be employed to generate a variety of spin-1/2 Hamiltonians including effective three-spin interactions. A variety of one or two dimensional systems can thus be realized that possess multi-degenerate ground states or non-vanishing chirality. The properties of these ground states and their phase transitions are probed with appropriate measures such as the entropic entanglement and the spin chirality.

id: quant-ph/0505226
title: Comment on "Quantum key distribution via quantum encryption"
authors: Fei Gao, Sujuan Qin, Qiaoyan Wen, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 5 pages, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505226
abstract: In the paper [Zhang, Li and Guo, Phys. Rev. A 64, 024302 (2001)], a quantum key distribution protocol based on quantum encryption was proposed, in which the quantum key can be reused. However, it is shown that, if Eve employs a special strategy to attack, this protocol becomes insecure because of the reused quantum key. That is, Eve can elicit partial information about the key bits without being detected. Finally, a possible improvement of the Zhang-Li-Guo protocol is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0505227
title: Twin-photon techniques for photo-detector calibration
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna
comments: 
journal: Laser Physics Letters 3 (2006) 115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505227
abstract: The aim of this review paper is to enlighten some recent progresses in quantum optical metrology in the part of quantum efficiency measurements of photo-detectors performed with bi-photon states. The intrinsic correlated nature of entangled photons from Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion phenomenon has opened wide horizons to a new approach for the absolute measurement of photo-detector quantum efficiency, outgoing the requirement for conventional standards of optical radiation; in particular the simultaneous feature of the creation of conjugated photons led to a well known technique of coincidence measurement, deeply understood and implemented for standard uses. On the other hand, based on manipulation of entanglement developed for Quantum Information protocols implementations, a new method has been proposed for quantum efficiency measurement, exploiting polarisation entanglement in addition to energy-momentum and time ones, that is based on conditioned polarisation state manipulation. In this review, after a general discussion on absolute photo-detector calibration, we compare these different methods, in order to give an accurate operational sketch of the absolute quantum efficiency measurement state of the art.

id: quant-ph/0505228
title: Prequantum classical statistical model with infinite dimensional phase-space
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: We present a more general viewpoint to a small parameter in the representation of QM as an asymptotic projection of Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory - PCSFT
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505228
abstract: We show that quantum mechanics can be represented as an asymptotic projection of statistical mechanics of classical fields. Thus our approach does not contradict to a rather common opinion that quantum mechanics could not be reduced to statistical mechanics of classical particles. Notions of a system and causality can be reestablished on the prequantum level, but the price is sufficiently high -- the infinite dimension of the phase space. In our approach quantum observables, symmetric operators in the Hilbert space, are obtained as derivatives of the second order of functionals of classical fields. Statistical states are given by Gaussian ensembles of classical fields with zero mean value (so these are vacuum fluctuations) and dispersion $\alpha$ which plays the role of a small parameter of the model (so these are small vacuum fluctuations). Our approach might be called {\it Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory} - PCSFT. Our model is well established on the mathematical level. However, to obtain concrete experimental predictions -- deviations of real experimental averages from averages given by the von Neumann trace formula - we should find the energy scale $\alpha$ of prequantum classical fields.

id: quant-ph/0505229
title: On distinguishability, orthogonality, and violations of the second law: contradictory assumptions, contrasting pieces of knowledge
authors: P. G. L. Mana, A. Maansson, G. Bjoerk
comments: LaTeX2e/RevTeX4, 18 pages, 6 figures. V2: Important revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505229
abstract: Two statements by von Neumann and a thought-experiment by Peres prompts a discussion on the notions of one-shot distinguishability, orthogonality, semi-permeable diaphragm, and their thermodynamic implications. In the first part of the paper, these concepts are defined and discussed, and it is explained that one-shot distinguishability and orthogonality are contradictory assumptions, from which one cannot rigorously draw any conclusion, concerning e.g. violations of the second law of thermodynamics. In the second part, we analyse what happens when these contradictory assumptions comes, instead, from _two_ different observers, having different pieces of knowledge about a given physical situation, and using incompatible density matrices to describe it.

id: quant-ph/0505230
title: Prequantum classical statistical model with infinite dimensional phase-space-2: complex representation of symplectic phase-space model
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505230
abstract: We show that QM can be represented as a natural projection of a classical statistical model on the phase space $\Omega= H\times H,$ where $H$ is the real Hilbert space. Statistical states are given by Gaussian measures on $\Omega$ having zero mean value and dispersion of the Planck magnitude -- fluctuations of the ``vacuum field.'' Physical variables (e.g., energy) are given by maps $f: \Omega \to {\bf R}$ (functions of classical fields). The crucial point is that statistical states and variables are symplectically invariant. The conventional quantum representation of our prequantum classical statistical model is constructed on the basis of the Teylor expansion (up to the terms of the second order at the vacuum field point $\omega=0)$ of variables $f: \Omega \to {\bf R}$ with respect to the small parameter $\kappa= \sqrt{h}.$ A Gaussian symplectically invariant measure (statistical state) is represented by its covariation operator (von Neumann statistical operator). A symplectically invariant smooth function (variable) is represented by its second derivative at the vacuum field point $\omega=0.$ From the statistical viewpoint QM is a statistical approximation of the prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). Such an approximation is obtained through neglecting by statistical fluctuations of the magnitude $o(h), h\to 0,$ in averages of physical variables. Equations of Schr\"odinger, Heisenberg and von Neumann are images of dynamics on $\Omega$ with a symplectically invariant Hamilton function.

id: quant-ph/0505231
title: Auxiliary nRules of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0505231
abstract: Standard quantum mechanics makes use of four auxiliary rules that allow the Schrodinger solutions to be related to laboratory experience, such as the Born rule that connects square modulus to probability. These rules (here called the sRules) lead to some unacceptable results. They do not allow the primary observer to be part of the system. They do not allow individual observations (as opposed to ensembles) to be part of the system. They make a fundamental distinction between microscopic and macroscopic things, and they are ambiguous in their description of secondary observers such as Schrodingers cat. The nRules are an alternative set of auxiliary rules that avoid the above difficulties. In this paper we look at a wide range of representative experiments showing that the nRules adequately relate the Schrodinger solutions to empirical experience. This suggests that the sRules should be abandoned in favor of the more satisfactory nRules, or a third auxiliary rule-set called the oRules. Keywords: brain states, consciousness, decoherence, epistemology, measurement, ontology, stochastic, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: astro-ph/0505376
title: Inflationary spectra and violations of Bell inequalities
authors: David Campo, Renaud Parentani
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; new presentation and extended discussion
journal: Phys.Rev. D74 (2006) 025001
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0505376
abstract: In spite of the macroscopic character of the primordial fluctuations, the standard inflationary distribution (that obtained using linear mode equations) exhibits inherently quantum properties, that is, properties which cannot be mimicked by any stochastic distribution. This is demonstrated by a Gedanken experiment for which certain Bell inequalities are violated. These violations are {\it in principle} measurable because, unlike for Hawking radiation from black holes, in inflationary cosmology we can have access to both members of correlated pairs of modes delivered in the same state. We then compute the effect of decoherence and show that the violations persist provided the decoherence level (and thus the entropy) lies below a certain non-vanishing threshold. Moreover, there exists a higher threshold above which no violation of any Bell inequality can occur. In this regime, the distributions are ``separable'' and can be interpreted as stochastic ensembles of fluctuations. Unfortunately, the precision which is required to have access to the quantum properties is so high that, {\it in practice}, an observational verification seems excluded.

id: cond-mat/0505024
title: Absence of spin superradiance in resonatorless magnets
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Latex file, 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 2 (2005) 302-308
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505024
abstract: A spin system is considered with a Hamiltonian typical of molecular magnets, having dipole-dipole interactions and a single-site magnetic anisotropy. In addition, spin interactions through the common radiation field are included. A fully quantum-mechanical derivation of the collective radiation rate is presented. An effective narrowing of the dipole-dipole attenuation, due to high spin polarization is taken into account. The influence of the radiation rate on spin dynamics is carefully analysed. It is shown that this influence is completely negligible. No noticeable collective effects, such as superradiance, can appear in molecular magnets, being caused by electromagnetic spin radiation. Spin superradiance can arise in molecular magnets only when these are coupled to a resonant electric circuit, as has been suggested earlier by one of the authors in Laser Phys. {\bf 12}, 1089 (2002).

id: cond-mat/0505044
title: Continuous quantum measurement with independent detector cross-correlations
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Markus Buttiker
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 220401 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505044
abstract: We investigate the advantages of using two independent, linear detectors for continuous quantum measurement. For single-shot quantum measurement, the measurement is maximally efficient if the detectors are twins. For weak continuous measurement, cross-correlations allow a violation of the Korotkov-Averin bound for the detector's signal-to-noise ratio. A vanishing noise background provides a nontrivial test of ideal independent quantum detectors. We further investigate the correlations of non-commuting operators, and consider possible deviations from the independent detector model for mesoscopic conductors coupled by the screened Coulomb interaction.

id: cond-mat/0505084
title: Entropy flow in near-critical quantum circuits
authors: Daniel Friedan
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505084
abstract: Near-critical quantum circuits are ideal physical systems for asymptotically large-scale quantum computers, because their low energy collective excitations evolve reversibly, effectively isolated from the environment. The design of reversible computers is constrained by the laws governing entropy flow within the computer. In near-critical quantum circuits, entropy flows as a locally conserved quantum current, obeying circuit laws analogous to the electric circuit laws. The quantum entropy current is just the energy current divided by the temperature. A quantum circuit made from a near-critical system (of conventional type) is described by a relativistic 1+1 dimensional relativistic quantum field theory on the circuit. The universal properties of the energy-momentum tensor constrain the entropy flow characteristics of the circuit components: the entropic conductivity of the quantum wires and the entropic admittance of the quantum circuit junctions. For example, near-critical quantum wires are always resistanceless inductors for entropy. A universal formula is derived for the entropic conductivity: \sigma_S(\omega)=iv^{2}S/\omega T, where \omega is the frequency, T the temperature, S the equilibrium entropy density and v the velocity of ``light''. The thermal conductivity is Real(T\sigma_S(\omega))=\pi v^{2}S\delta(\omega). The thermal Drude weight is, universally, v^{2}S. This gives a way to measure the entropy density directly.

id: cond-mat/0505085
title: Entropy flow through near-critical quantum junctions
authors: Daniel Friedan
comments: 19 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505085
abstract: This is the continuation of cond-mat/0505084. Elementary formulas are derived for the flow of entropy through a circuit junction in a near-critical quantum circuit, based on the structure of the energy-momentum tensor at the junction. The entropic admittance of a near-critical junction in a bulk-critical circuit is expressed in terms of commutators of the chiral entropy currents. The entropic admittance at low frequency, divided by the frequency, gives the change of the junction entropy with temperature -- the entropic ``capacitance''. As an example, and as a check on the formalism, the entropic admittance is calculated explicitly for junctions in bulk-critical quantum Ising circuits (free fermions, massless in the bulk), in terms of the reflection matrix of the junction. The half-bit of information capacity per end of critical Ising wire is re-derived by integrating the entropic ``capacitance'' with respect to temperature, from T=0 to T=infinity.

id: cond-mat/0505089
title: Momentum space topology and quantum phase transitions
authors: G.E. Volovik
comments: 55 pages, 13 figures, extended and references added
journal: ActaPhys.Slov.56:049-056,2006
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505089
abstract: Many quantum condensed-matter systems, and probably the quantum vacuum of our Universe, are strongly correlated and strongly interacting fermionic systems, which cannot be treated perturbatively. However, physics which emerges in the low-energy does not depend on the complicated details of the system and is relatively simple. It is determined by the nodes in the fermionic spectrum, which are protected by topology in momentum space (in some cases, in combination with the vacuum symmetry). Here we illustrate this universality on some examples of quantum phase transitions, which can occur between the vacua with the same symmetry but with diferent topology in momentum space. The quantum phase transitions between the fully gapped states with different momentum-space topology are also discussed.

id: cond-mat/0505132
title: Strong coupling of a qubit to shot noise
authors: Udo Hartmann, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505132
abstract: We perform a nonperturbative analysis of a charge qubit in a double quantum dot structure coupled to its detector. We show that strong detector-dot interaction tends to slow down and halt coherent oscillations. The transitions to a classical and a low-temperature quantum overdamping (Zeno) regime are studied. In the latter, the physics of the dissipative phase transition competes with the effective shot noise.

id: cond-mat/0505133
title: Spontaneous photon emission from a semiconductor
authors: She-Sheng Xue
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505133
abstract: Semiconductor's energy band and its degeneracy are altered when an external magnetic field varies, analogously to the appearance of Landau levels. Such alternation leads to the variation of energy levels and thus quantum-mechanical instability. As a consequence, spontaneous photon emission and/or paramagnetically screening effect take place. By computing total energy variation, we discuss why these effects are bound to occur. In addition, we calculate the rate and spectrum of spontaneous photon emission, which can be experimentally tested.

id: cond-mat/0505140
title: Matrix product states represent ground states faithfully
authors: F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 094423 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505140
abstract: We quantify how well matrix product states approximate exact ground states of 1-D quantum spin systems as a function of the number of spins and the entropy of blocks of spins. We also investigate the convex set of local reduced density operators of translational invariant systems. The results give a theoretical justification for the high accuracy of renormalization group algorithms, and justifies their use even in the case of critical systems.

id: cond-mat/0505280
title: Reading entanglement in terms of spin configurations in quantum magnets
authors: Andrea Fubini, Tommaso Roscilde, Valerio Tognetti, Matteo Tusa, Paola Verrucchi
comments: Final version, to appear in European Physical Journal D
journal: EUR. PHYS. J. D 38, 563 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505280
abstract: We consider a quantum many-body system made of $N$ interacting $S{=}1/2$ spins on a lattice, and develop a formalism which allows to extract, out of conventional magnetic observables, the quantum probabilities for any selected spin pair to be in maximally entangled or factorized two-spin states. This result is used in order to capture the meaning of entanglement properties in terms of magnetic behavior. In particular, we consider the concurrence between two spins and show how its expression extracts information on the presence of bipartite entanglement out of the probability distributions relative to specific sets of two-spin quantum states. We apply the above findings to the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model in a uniform magnetic field, both on a chain and on a two-leg ladder. Using Quantum Monte Carlo simulations, we obtain the above probability distributions and the associated entanglement, discussing their evolution under application of the field.

id: cond-mat/0505288
title: Exploiting Quantum Parallelism To Simulate Quantum Random Many-Body Systems
authors: B. Paredes, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505288
abstract: We present an algorithm that exploits quantum parallelism to simulate randomness in a quantum system. In our scheme, all possible realizations of the random parameters are encoded quantum mechanically in a superposition state of an auxiliary system. We show how our algorithm allows for the efficient simulation of dynamics of quantum random spin chains with known numerical methods. We also propose an experimental realization based on atoms in optical lattices in which disorder could be simulated in parallel and in a controlled way through the interaction with another atomic species.

id: cond-mat/0505390
title: Energy Down Conversion between Classical Electromagnetic Fields via a Quantum Mechanical SQUID Ring
authors: M. J. Everitt, T. D. Clark, P. B. Stiffell, C. J. Harland, J. F. Ralph
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW B 72, 094509 (2005)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505390
abstract: We consider the interaction of a quantum mechanical SQUID ring with a classical resonator (a parallel $LC$ tank circuit). In our model we assume that the evolution of the ring maintains its quantum mechanical nature, even though the circuit to which it is coupled is treated classically. We show that when the SQUID ring is driven by a classical monochromatic microwave source, energy can be transferred between this input and the tank circuit, even when the frequency ratio between them is very large. Essentially, these calculations deal with the coupling between a single macroscopic quantum object (the SQUID ring) and a classical circuit measurement device where due account is taken of the non-perturbative behaviour of the ring and the concomitant non-linear interaction of the ring with this device.

id: cond-mat/0505499
title: The energy spectrum symmetry of Heisenberg model in Fock space
authors: An Min Wang, Rengui Zhu
comments: Revising version, 7 preprint pages, no figures; Published version contains some revisions in Language
journal: Chinese Phys. Lett. 23 (2006)p2542
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505499
abstract: We prove strictly that one dimension spin 1/2 Heisenberg model has a symmetry of energy spectrum between its subspace $n$ and the subspace $L-n$ of the Fock space. Our proof is completed by introducing two general quantum operations. One is a flip operation of spin direction and another is a mirror reflection of spin sites.

id: cond-mat/0505515
title: Fusion rules and vortices in $p_x+ip_y$ superconductors
authors: Michael Stone, Suk Bum Chung
comments: 23 pages, REVTEX4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 014505 (2006)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505515
abstract: The "half-quantum" vortices ($\sigma$) and quasiparticles ($\psi$) in a two-dimensional $p_x+ip_y$ superconductor obey the Ising-like fusion rules $\psi\times \psi=1$, $\sigma\times \psi=\sigma$, and $\sigma\times \sigma= 1+\psi$. We explain how the physical fusion of vortex-antivortex pairs allows us to use these rules to read out the information encoded in the topologically protected space of degenerate ground states. We comment on the potential applicability of this fact to quantum computation. Modified 11/30/05 to reflect manuscript as accepted for publication. Includes corrected last section.

id: cond-mat/0505554
title: Coherent radiation by molecular magnets
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Latex file, 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 70 (2005) 306-312
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505554
abstract: The possibility of coherent radiation by molecular magnets is investigated. It is shown that to realize the coherent radiation, it is necessary to couple the considered sample to a resonant electric circuit. A theory for describing this phenomenon is developed, based on a realistic microscopic Hamiltonian, including the Zeeman terms, single-site anisotropy, and dipole interactions. The role of hyperfine interactions between molecular and nuclear spins is studied. Numerical solutions of the spin evolution equations are presented.

id: cond-mat/0505563
title: Entanglement and alpha entropies for a massive Dirac field in two dimensions
authors: H. Casini, C. D. Fosco, M. Huerta
comments: Clarification in section 2, one reference added. 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0507:P07007,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505563
abstract: We present some exact results about universal quantities derived from the local density matrix, for a free massive Dirac field in two dimensions. We first find the trace of powers of the density matrix in a novel fashion, which involves the correlators of suitable operators in the sine-Gordon model. These, in turn, can be written exactly in terms of the solutions of non-linear differential equations of the Painlev\'e V type. Equipped with the previous results, we find the leading terms for the entanglement entropy, both for short and long distances, and showing that in the intermediate regime it can be expanded in a series of multiple integrals. The previous results have been checked by direct numerical calculations on the lattice, finding perfect agreement. Finally, we comment on a possible generalization of the entanglement entropy c-theorem to the alpha-entropies.

id: cond-mat/0505621
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of double quantum dot charge qubits due to acoustic phonons
authors: M.Thorwart, J.Eckel, E.R.Mucciolo
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, replaced with the version to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B. 72, 235320 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505621
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a double quantum dot charge qubit which is coupled to piezoelectric acoustic phonons, appropriate for GaAs heterostructures. At low temperatures, the phonon bath induces a non-Markovian dynamical behavior of the oscillations between the two charge states of the double quantum dot. Upon applying the numerically exact quasiadiabatic propagator path-integral scheme, the reduced density matrix of the charge qubit is calculated, thereby avoiding the Born-Markov approximation. This allows a systematic study of the dependence of the Q-factor on the lattice temperature, on the size of the quantum dots, as well as on the interdot coupling. We calculate the Q-factor for a recently realized experimental setup and find that it is two orders of magnitudes larger than the measured value, indicating that the decoherence due to phonons is a subordinate mechanism.

id: cond-mat/0505632
title: Exactly solvable case of a one-dimensional Bose-Fermi mixture
authors: Adilet Imambekov, Eugene Demler
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Changes to the text and figure 3
journal: Phys.Rev.A 73, 021602(R) (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505632
abstract: We consider a one dimensional interacting bose-fermi mixture with equal masses of bosons and fermions, and with equal and repulsive interactions between bose-fermi and bose-bose particles. Such a system can be realized in experiments with ultracold boson and fermion isotopes in optical lattices. We use the Bethe-ansatz technique to find the ground state energy at zero temperature for any value of interaction strength and density ratio between bosons and fermions. We prove that the mixture is always stable against demixing. Combining exact solution with the local density approximation we calculate density profiles and collective oscillation modes in a harmonic trap. In the strongly interating regime we use exact wavefunctions to calculate correlation functions for bosons and fermions under periodic boundary conditions.

id: cond-mat/0505647
title: Counting statistics and detector properties of quantum point contacts
authors: Dmitri V. Averin, Eugene V. Sukhorukov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 126803 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505647
abstract: Quantum detector properties of the quantum point contact (QPC) are analyzed for arbitrary electron transparency and coupling strength to the measured system and are shown to be determined by the electron counting statistics. Conditions of the quantum-limited operation of the QPC detector which prevent information loss through the scattering time and scattering phases are found for arbitrary coupling. We show that the phase information can be restored and used for the quantum-limited detection by inclusion of the QPC detector in the electronic Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: cond-mat/0505671
title: Dynamics of the quantum Duffing oscillator in the driving induced bistable regime
authors: V. Peano, M. Thorwart
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Vol. 322 (2006), 135
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505671
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear response of an anharmonic monostable quantum mechanical resonator to strong external periodic driving. The driving thereby induces an effective bistability in which resonant tunneling can be identified. Within the framework of a Floquet analysis, an effective Floquet-Born-Markovian master equation with time-independent coefficients can be established which can be solved straightforwardly. Various effects including resonant tunneling and multi-photon transitions will be described. Our model finds applications in nano-electromechanical devices such as vibrating suspended nano-wires as well as in non-destructive read-out procedures for superconducting quantum bits involving the nonlinear response of the read-out SQUID.

id: cond-mat/0505684
title: Quantum noise minimization in transistor amplifiers
authors: U. Gavish, B. Yurke, Y. Imry
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 133602 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505684
abstract: General quantum restrictions on the noise performance of linear transistor amplifiers are used to identify the region in parameter space where the quantum-limited performance is achievable and to construct a practical procedure for approaching it experimentally using only the knowledge of directly measurable quantities: the gain, (differential) conductance and the output noise. A specific example of resonant barrier transistors is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0505716
title: Crossover from mesoscopic to universal phase for electron transmission in quantum dots
authors: M. Avinun-Kalish, M. Heiblum, O. Zarchin, D. Mahalu, V. Umansky
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505716
abstract: Measuring phase in coherent electron systems (mesoscopic systems) provides ample information not easily revealed by conductance measurements. Phase measurements in relatively large quantum dots (QDs) recently demonstrated a universal like phase evolution independent of dot size, shape, and occupancy. Explicitly, in Coulomb blockaded QDs the transmission phase increased monotonically by pi throughout each conductance peak, thereafter, in the conductance valleys the phase returned sharply to its base value. Expected mesoscopic features in the phase, related to spin degeneracy or to exchange effects, were never observed. Presently, there is no satisfactory full explanation for the observed phase universality. Unfortunately, the phase in a few-electron QDs, where it can be better understood was never measured. Here we report on such measurements on a small QD that occupy only 1-20 electrons. Such dot was embedded in one arm of a two path electron interferometer, with an electron counter near the dot. Unlike the repetitive behavior found in larger dots we found now mesoscopic features for dot occupation of less than some 10 electrons. An unexpected feature in this regime is a clear observation of the occupation of two different orbital states by the first two electrons - contrary to the recent publications. As the occupation increased the phase evolved and turned universal like for some 14 electrons and higher. The present measurements allowed us to determine level occupancy and parity. More importantly, they suggest that QDs go through a phase transition, from mesoscopic to universal like behavior, as the occupancy increases. These measurements help in singling out potential few theoretical models among the many proposed.

id: cond-mat/0505739
title: Equilibrium entanglement vanishes at finite temperature
authors: B. V. Fine, F. Mintert, A. Buchleitner
comments: 2 pages, no figures, first submitted on July 22, 2004
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71, 153105 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505739
abstract: We show that the equilibrium entanglement of a bipartite system having a finite number of quantum states vanishes at finite temperature, for arbitrary interactions between its constituents and with the environment.

id: cond-mat/0505754
title: Why and when the Minkowski's stress tensor can be used in the problem of Casimir force acting on bodies embedded in media
authors: L.P. Pitaevskii
comments: Comment, 2 pages. 2 misprints were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0505754
abstract: It is shown that the criticism by Raabe and Welsch of the Dzyaloshinskii-Lifshitz-Pitaevskii theory of the van der Waals-Casimir forces inside a medium is based on misunderstandings. It is explained why and at which conditions one can use the ''Minkowski-like '' stress tensor for calculations of the forces. The reason, why approach of Raabe and Welsch is incorrect, is discussed.

id: gr-qc/0505019
title: Planck Fluctuations, Measurement Uncertainties and the Holographic Principle
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 19 pages, Latex, no figures, some new references, to appear ModPhysLett A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A22:791-806,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0505019
abstract: Starting from a critical analysis of recently reported surprisingly large uncertainties in length and position measurements deduced within the framework of quantum gravity, we embark on an investigation both of the correlation structure of Planck scale fluctuations and the role the holographic hypothesis is possibly playing in this context. While we prove the logical independence of the fluctuation results and the holographic hypothesis (in contrast to some recent statements in that direction) we show that by combining these two topics one can draw quite strong and interesting conclusions about the fluctuation structure and the microscopic dynamics on the Planck scale. We further argue that these findings point to a possibly new and generalized form of quantum statistical mechanics of strongly (anti)correlated systems of degrees of freedom in this fundamental regime.

id: gr-qc/0505068
title: From qubits to black holes: entropy, entanglement and all that
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: Honorable Mention in the 2005 Gravity Research Foundation Essay Competition
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. D14 (2005) 2307-2314
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0505068
abstract: Entropy plays a crucial role in characterization of information and entanglement, but it is not a scalar quantity and for many systems it is different for different relativistic observers. Loop quantum gravity predicts the Bekenstein-Hawking term for black hole entropy and logarithmic correction to it. The latter originates in the entanglement between the pieces of spin networks that describe black hole horizon. Entanglement between gravity and matter may restore the unitarity in the black hole evaporation process. If the collapsing matter is assumed to be initially in a pure state, then entropy of the Hawking radiation is exactly the created entanglement between matter and gravity.

id: hep-ph/0505177
title: Adventures in Theoretical Physics: Selected Papers of Stephen L. Adler -- Commentaries
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Latex 115p; Final version. Book version will differ in reference format and indexing; version 3 differs from version 2 by minor copy-editing corrections
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0505177
abstract: These are the commentaries for a volume of reprints of my selected papers with commentaries that I am preparing for publication by World Scientific. Contents: Preface; (1)Early Years, and Condensed Matter Physics; (2) High Energy Neutrino Reactions, PCAC Relations, and Sum Rules; (3) Anomalies: Chiral Anomalies and Their Nonrenormalization, Perturbative Corrections to Scaling, and Trace Anomalies to All Orders; (4) Quantum Electrodynamics; (5) Particle Phenomenology and Neutral Currents; (6) Gravitation; (7) Non-Abelian Monopoles, Confinement Models, and Chiral Symmetry Breaking; (8) Overrelaxation for Monte-Carlo and Other Algorithms; (9) Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics, Trace Dynamics, and Emergent Quantum Theory; (10) Where Next?

id: hep-th/0505007
title: Lagrangian quantum field theory in momentum picture. III. Free vector fields
authors: Bozhidar Z. Iliev
comments: 68 LaTeX pages. The packages AMS-LaTeX and amsfonts are required. This paper is a continuation of the e-print E-prints No. hep-th/0402006 and No. hep-th/0405008. For related papers, visit the "publication" pages at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505007
abstract: Free vector fields, satisfying the Lorenz condition, are investigated in details in the momentum picture of motion in Lagrangian quantum field theory. The field equations are equivalently written in terms of creation and annihilation operators and on their base the commutation relations are derived. Some problems concerning the vacuum and state vectors of free vector field are discussed. Special attention is paid to peculiarities of the massless case; in particular, the electromagnetic field is explored. Several Lagrangians, describing free vector fields, are considered and the basic consequences of them are pointed and compared.

id: hep-th/0505025
title: Bounded solutions of neutral fermions with a screened Coulomb potential
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annals Phys. 320 (2005) 56-70
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505025
abstract: The intrinsically relativistic problem of a fermion subject to a pseudoscalar screened Coulomb plus a uniform background potential in two-dimensional space-time is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville. This mapping gives rise to an effective Morse-like potential and exact bounded solutions are found. It is shown that the uniform background potential determinates the number of bound-state solutions. The behaviour of the eigenenergies as well as of the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor corresponding to bounded solutions is discussed in detail and some unusual results are revealed. An apparent paradox concerning the uncertainty principle is solved by recurring to the concepts of effective mass and effective Compton wavelength.

id: hep-th/0505087
title: Geometric phases and hidden local gauge symmetry
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure. Some typos have been corrected. To be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 025009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505087
abstract: The analysis of geometric phases associated with level crossing is reduced to the familiar diagonalization of the Hamiltonian in the second quantized formulation. A hidden local gauge symmetry, which is associated with the arbitrariness of the phase choice of a complete orthonormal basis set, becomes explicit in this formulation (in particular, in the adiabatic approximation) and specifies physical observables. The choice of a basis set which specifies the coordinate in the functional space is arbitrary in the second quantization, and a sub-class of coordinate transformations, which keeps the form of the action invariant, is recognized as the gauge symmetry. We discuss the implications of this hidden local gauge symmetry in detail by analyzing geometric phases for cyclic and noncyclic evolutions. It is shown that the hidden local symmetry provides a basic concept alternative to the notion of holonomy to analyze geometric phases and that the analysis based on the hidden local gauge symmetry leads to results consistent with the general prescription of Pancharatnam. We however note an important difference between the geometric phases for cyclic and noncyclic evolutions. We also explain a basic difference between our hidden local gauge symmetry and a gauge symmetry (or equivalence class) used by Aharonov and Anandan in their definition of generalized geometric phases.

id: hep-th/0505132
title: Extended supersymmetry and its reduction on a circle with point singularities
authors: Tomoaki Nagasawa, Makoto Sakamoto, Kazunori Takenaga
comments: 36 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 8053-8082
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505132
abstract: We investigate $N$-extended supersymmetry in one-dimensional quantum mechanics on a circle with point singularities. For any integer $n$, $N=2n+1$ supercharges are explicitly constructed in terms of discrete transformations, and a class of singularities compatible with supersymmetry is clarified. In our formulation, the supersymmetry can be reduced to $M$-extended supersymmetry for any integer $M<N$. The degeneracy of the spectrum and spontaneous supersymmetry breaking are also studied.

id: hep-th/0505218
title: Casimir effect for thin films from imperfect materials
authors: V. N. Markov, Yu.M. Pis'mak
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Content added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505218
abstract: We propose an approach for investigation of interaction of thin material films with quantum electrodynamic fields. Using main principles of quantum electrodynamics (locality, gauge invariance, renormalizability) we construct a single model for Casimir-like phenomena arising near the film boundary on distances much larger then Compton wavelength of the electron where fluctuations of Dirac fields are not essential. In this model the thin film is presented by a singular background field concentrated on a 2-dimensional surface. All properties of the film material are described by one dimensionless parameter. For two parallel plane films we calculate the photon propagator and the Casimir force, which appears to be dependent on film material and can be both attractive and repulsive. We consider also an interaction of plane film with point charge and straight line current. Here, besides usual results of classical electrodynamics the model predicts appearance of anomalous electric and magnetic fields.

id: hep-th/0505224
title: Casimir densities for a spherical brane in Rindler-like spacetimes
authors: A.A. Saharian, M.R. Setare
comments: 15 pages, Application to the AdS black hole braneworld and references added, accepted for publication in Nuclear Physics B
journal: Nucl.Phys.B724:406-422,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505224
abstract: Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor are evaluated for a scalar field obeying mixed boundary condition on a spherical brane in (D+1)-dimensional Rindler-like spacetime $Ri\times S^{D-1}$, where $Ri$ is a two-dimensional Rindler spacetime. This spacetime approximates the near horizon geometry of (D+1) -dimensional black hole in the large mass limit. The vacuum expectation values are presented as the sum of boundary-free and brane-induced parts. Further we extract from the Wightman function for the boundary-free geometry the corresponding function in the bulk $R^{2}\times S^{D-1}$. For the latter geometry the vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor do not depend on the spacetime point. For the renormalization of these quantities we use zeta regularization technique. Various limiting cases of the brane-induced vacuum expectation values are investigated.

id: hep-th/0505229
title: Unitary Evolution on a Phase Space with Power of Two Discretization
authors: E. G. Floratos, S. Nicolis
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX2e, amssymb
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505229
abstract: We construct quantum evolution operators on the space of states, that realize the metaplectic representation of the modular group SL(2,Z_2^n). This representation acts in a natural way on the coordinates of the non-commutative 2-torus and thus is relevant for noncommutative field theories as well as theories of quantum space-time. The larger class of operators, thus defined, may be useful for the more efficient realization of new quantum algorithms.

id: hep-th/0505246
title: Coherent States of the Deformed Heisenberg-Weyl Algebra in Noncommutative Space
authors: Qi-jun Yin, Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: Phys.Lett. B613 (2005) 91-96
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505246
abstract: In two-dimensional space a subtle point that for the case of both space-space and momentum-momentum noncommuting, different from the case of only space-space noncommuting, the deformed Heisenberg-Weyl algebra in noncommutative space is not completely equivalent to the undeformed Heisenberg-Weyl algebra in commutative space is clarified. It follows that there is no well defined procedure to construct the deformed position-position coherent state or the deformed momentum-momentum coherent state from the undeformed position-momentum coherent state. Identifications of the deformed position-position and deformed momentum-momentum coherent states with the lowest energy states of a cold Rydberg atom in special conditions and a free particle, respectively, are demonstrated.

id: hep-th/0505267
title: States on timelike hypersurfaces in quantum field theory
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX + revtex4 + eepic
journal: Phys.Lett. B622 (2005) 172-177
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0505267
abstract: We investigate the possibility of defining states on timelike hypersurfaces in quantum field theory. To this end we consider hyperplanes in the real massive Klein-Gordon theory using the Schroedinger representation. We find a well defined vacuum wave functional, existing on any hyperplane, with the remarkable property that it changes smoothly even under Euclidean rotation through the light-cone. Moreover, particles on timelike hyperplanes exist and occur in two variants, incoming and outgoing, distinguished by the sign of the energy. Multi-particle wave functionals take a form similar to those on spacelike hypersurfaces. The role of unitarity and the inner product is discussed.

id: math-ph/0505027
title: PT-Invariant Periodic Potentials with a Finite Number of Band Gaps
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 30 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505027
abstract: We obtain the band edge eigenstates and the mid-band states for the complex, PT-invariant generalized associated Lam\'e potentials $V^{PT}(x)=-a(a+1)m \sn^2(y,m)-b(b+1)m {\sn^2 (y+K(m),m)} -f(f+1)m {\sn^2 (y+K(m)+iK'(m),m)}-g(g+1)m {\sn^2 (y+iK'(m),m)}$, where $y \equiv ix+\beta$, and there are four parameters $a,b,f,g$. This work is a substantial generalization of previous work with the associated Lam\'e potentials $V(x)=a(a+1)m\sn^2(x,m)+b(b+1)m{\sn^2 (x+K(m),m)}$ and their corresponding PT-invariant counterparts $V^{PT}(x)=-V(ix+\beta)$, both of which involving just two parameters $a,b$. We show that for many integer values of $a,b,f,g$, the PT-invariant potentials $V^{PT}(x)$ are periodic problems with a finite number of band gaps. Further, usingsupersymmetry, we construct several additional, new, complex, PT-invariant, periodic potentials with a finite number of band gaps. We also point out the intimate connection between the above generalized associated Lam\'e potential problem and Heun's differential equation.

id: math-ph/0505030
title: Spectrum of the Schr?dinger operator in a perturbed periodically twisted tube
authors: Pavel Exner, Hynek Kova?k
comments: LaTeX2e, 10 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 73 (2005), 183-192
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505030
abstract: We study Dirichlet Laplacian in a screw-shaped region, i.e. a straight twisted tube of a non-circular cross section. It is shown that a local perturbation which consists of "slowing down" the twisting in the mean gives rise to a non-empty discrete spectrum.

id: math-ph/0505032
title: On the mathematical Structure of Quantum Measurement Theory
authors: Geoffrey Sewell
comments: 20 pages, minor correstions installed, to appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505032
abstract: We show that the key problems of quantum measurement theory, namely the reduction of the wave packet of a microsystem and the specification of its quantum state by a macroscopic measuring instrument, may be rigorously resolved within the traditional framework of the quantum mechanics of finite conservative systems. The argument is centred on the generic model of a microsystem, S, coupled to a finite macroscopic measuring instrument, I, which itself is an N-particle quantum system. The pointer positions of I correspond to the macrostates of this instrument, as represented by orthogonal subspaces of the Hilbert space of its pure states. These subspaces, or 'phase cells', are the simultaneous eigenspaces of a set of coarse grained intercommuting macroscopic observables, M, and, crucially, are of astronomically large dimensionalities, which incease exponentially with N. We formulate conditions on the conservative dynamics of the composite (S+I) under which it yields both a reduction of the wave packet describing the state of S and a one-to-one correspondence, following a measurement, between the pointer position of I and the resultant state of S; and we show that these conditions are fulfilled by the finite version of the Coleman-Hepp model.

id: math-ph/0505047
title: Comment on "A Recursive Parametrisation of Unitary Matrices"
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex files, 6 pages. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505047
abstract: In this note we make a comment on the paper by Jarlskog (math-ph/0504049) in which she gave a parametrisation to unitary matrices. Namely, we show that her recursive method is essentially obtained by the canonical coordinate of the second kind in the Lie group theory, and propose a problem on constructing unitary gates in quantum computation by making use of the parametrisation.

id: math-ph/0505077
title: Quasi-Periodic Solutions of Heun's Equation
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 13 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505077
abstract: By exploiting a recently developed connection between Heun's differential equation and the generalized associated Lam\'e equation, we not only recover the well known periodic solutions, but also obtain a large class of new, quasi-periodic solutions of Heun's equation. Each of the quasi-periodic solutions is doubly degenerate.

id: math-ph/0505080
title: Positive operator measures, generalised imprimitivity theorem, and their applications
authors: Alessandro Toigo
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, 103 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505080
abstract: Given a topological group $G$ and a unitary representation $U$ of $G$, we consider the problem of classifying the positive operator measures which are based on a $G$-homogeneous space $X$ and covariant with respect to the representation $U$. We completely solve the problem in two cases: 1) when $G$ is abelian; 2) when $G$ is not abelian, $X$ has compact stbiliser in $G$ and the representation $U$ is irreducible. We then give an application of the above results to the characterisation of covariant position and momentum observables in quantum mechanics, and to the determination of those covariant position and momentum observables that are jointly measurable.

id: math-ph/0505085
title: A Note on the p->q norms of Completely Positive Maps
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 1.5 pages; a different proof of the main statement has already appeared in: J. Watrous, QIC 5, 58-68 (2005)
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl 430(4), 1436-1440 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0505085
abstract: King and Ruskai asked whether the $p\to q$ norm of a completely positive map $\Phi$, acting between Schatten $p$ and $q$ classes of self-adjoint operators, $||\Phi||_{p\to q} = \max_{A=A^*} \frac{||\Phi(A)||_q}{||A||_p}$, is equal to the $p\to q$ norm of that map when acting between Schatten classes of general, not necessarily self-adjoint, operators. The first proof has been given by Watrous. We give an alternative proof of this statement.

id: math/0505143
title: New Classes of Facets of Cut Polytope and Tightness of I_{mm22} Bell Inequalities
authors: David Avis, Tsuyoshi Ito
comments: The part except for the appendices will appear in Proc. 4th Symp. Discrete Math. and Its Appl., June, 2005. 12 pages with 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0505143
abstract: The Grishukhin inequality Gr_7 is a facet of CutP_7, the cut polytope on seven points, which is ``sporadic'' in the sense that its proper generalization has not been known. In this paper, we extend Gr_7 to an inequality I(G,H) valid for CutP_{n+1} where G and H are graphs with n nodes satisfying certain conditions, and prove a necessary and sufficient condition for I(G,H) to be a facet. This result combined with the triangular elimination theorem of Avis, Imai, Ito and Sasaki settles Collins and Gisin's conjecture in quantum theory affirmatively: the I_{mm22} Bell inequality is a facet of the correlation polytope CorP(K_{m,m}) of the complete bipartite graph K_{m,m} for all m>=1. We also extend the Gr_8 facet inequality of CutP_8 to an inequality I'(G,H,C) valid for CutP_{n+2}, and provide a sufficient condition for I'(G,H,C) to be a facet.

id: math/0505336
title: What scalars should we use ?
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Overview (math.HO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0505336
abstract: There are compelling historical and mathematical reasons why we ended up, among others in Physics, with using the scalars given by the real or the complex numbers. Recently, however, infinitely many easy to construct and use other algebras of scalars have quite naturally emerged in a number of branches of Applied Mathematics. These algebras of scalars can deal with the long disturbing difficulties encountered in Physics, related to such phenomena as "infinities in Physics", "re-normalization", the "Feynman path integral", and so on. Specifically, as soon as one is dealing with scalars in algebras which - unlike the reals R and complex numbers C - are no longer Archimedean, one can deal with a large variety of "infinite" quantities and do so within the usual rules and with the usual operations of algebra. Here we present typical constructions of these recently emerged algebras of scalars, most of them non-Archimedean.

id: math/0505541
title: Upper and lower bounds for an eigenvalue associated with a positive eigenvector
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 47 (2006) 022109
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0505541
abstract: When an eigenvector of a semi-bounded operator is positive, we show that a remarkably simple argument allows to obtain upper and lower bounds for its associated eigenvalue. This theorem is a substantial generalization of Barta-like inequalities and can be applied to non-necessarily purely quadratic Hamiltonians. An application for a magnetic Hamiltonian is given and the case of a discrete Schrodinger operator is also discussed. It is shown how this approach leads to some explicit bounds on the ground-state energy of a system made of an arbitrary number of attractive Coulombian particles.

id: nlin/0505051
title: Statistical description of eigenfunctions in chaotic and weakly disordered systems beyond universality
authors: Juan Diego Urbina, Klaus Richter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0505051
abstract: We present a semiclassical approach to eigenfunction statistics in chaotic and weakly disordered quantum systems which goes beyond Random Matrix Theory, supersymmetry techniques, and existing semiclassical methods. The approach is based on a generalization of Berry's Random Wave Model, combined with a consistent semiclassical representation of spatial two-point correlations. We derive closed expressions for arbitrary wavefunction averages in terms of universal coefficients and sums over classical paths, which contain, besides the supersymmetry results, novel oscillatory contributions. Their physical relevance is demonstrated in the context of Coulomb blockade physics.

id: nlin/0505057
title: Shuffling cards, factoring numbers, and the quantum baker's map
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 12 pgs. Substantially elaborated version, including a new route to the quantum bakers map. To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L597-L605
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0505057
abstract: It is pointed out that an exactly solvable permutation operator, viewed as the quantization of cyclic shifts, is useful in constructing a basis in which to study the quantum baker's map, a paradigm system of quantum chaos. In the basis of this operator the eigenfunctions of the quantum baker's map are compressed by factors of around five or more. We show explicitly its connection to an operator that is closely related to the usual quantum baker's map. This permutation operator has interesting connections to the art of shuffling cards as well as to the quantum factoring algorithm of Shor via the quantum order finding one. Hence we point out that this well-known quantum algorithm makes crucial use of a quantum chaotic operator, or at least one that is close to the quantization of the left-shift, a closeness that we also explore quantitatively.

id: physics/0505060
title: Optimally Controlled Field-Free Orientation of the Kicked Molecule
authors: Claude M. Dion, Arne Keller, Osman Atabek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (version 2 contains some minor additions and corrects many misprints)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 023402 (2005)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0505060
abstract: Efficient and long-lived field-free molecular orientation is achieved using only two kicks appropriately delayed in time. The understanding of the mechanism rests upon a molecular target state providing the best efficiency versus persistence compromise. An optimal control scheme is referred to for fixing the free parameters (amplitudes and the time delay between them). The limited number of kicks, the robustness and the transposability to different molecular systems advocate in favor of the process, when considering its experimental feasibility.

id: physics/0505098
title: Coupling of PbS Quantum Dots to Photonic Crystal Cavities at Room Temperature
authors: Ilya Fushman, Dirk Englund, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0505098
abstract: We demonstrate the coupling of PbS quantum dot emission to photonic crystal cavities at room temperature. The cavities are defined in 33% Al, AlGaAs membranes on top of oxidized AlAs. Quantum dots were dissolved in Poly-methyl-methacrylate (PMMA) and spun on top of the cavities. Quantum dot emission is shown to map out the structure resonances, and may prove to be viable sources for room temperature cavity coupled single photon generation for quantum information processing applications. These results also indicate that such commercially available quantum dots can be used for passive structure characterization. The deposition technique is versatile and allows layers with different dot densities and emission wavelengths to be re-deposited on the same chip.

id: physics/0505124
title: Weak antilocalization of ultrarelativistic fermions
authors: K. Yu. Bliokh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 344, 127 (2005)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0505124
abstract: The paper discusses the Berry phase influence on the weak localization phenomenon at the adiabatic backscattering of ultrarelativistic particles in a random medium. We demonstrate that bosons that pass along a certain closed path in opposite directions come back always in phase (an example: the backscattering enhancement of electromagnetic waves), whereas fermions come exactly in antiphase. This produces a "complete weak antilocalization" of ultrarelativistic fermions: the backscattering field intensity vanishes.

id: physics/0505143
title: The role of quasi-momentum in the resonant dynamics of the atom-optics kicked rotor
authors: Sandro Wimberger, Mark Sadgrove
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to be published in J. Phys. A, Special Issue on 'Trends in Quantum Chaotic Scattering'
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 10549 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0505143
abstract: We examine the effect of the initial atomic momentum distribution on the dynamics of the atom-optical realisation of the quantum kicked rotor. The atoms are kicked by a pulsed optical lattice, the periodicity of which implies that quasi-momentum is conserved in the transport problem. We study and compare experimentally and theoretically two resonant limits of the kicked rotor: in the vicinity of the quantum resonances and in the semiclassical limit of vanishing kicking period. It is found that for the same experimental distribution of quasi-momenta, significant deviations from the kicked rotor model are induced close to quantum resonance, while close to the classical resonance (i.e. for small kicking period) the effect of the quasi-momentum vanishes.

id: physics/0505213
title: Self-similarities in the frequency-amplitude space of a loss-modulated CO$_2$ laser
authors: Cristian Bonatto, Jean Claude Garreau, Jason A.C. Gallas
comments: (5 low-res color figs; for ALL figures high-res PDF: this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0505213
abstract: We show the standard two-level continuous-time model of loss-modulated CO$_2$ lasers to display the same regular network of self-similar stability islands known so far to be typically present only in discrete-time models based on mappings. For class B laser models our results suggest that, more than just convenient surrogates, discrete mappings in fact could be isomorphic to continuous flows.

